ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip087x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip087x.u2	I propose that a single discussion be devoted to these draft budgets. I propose that you devote a single discussion to these draft budgets.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip087x.u3	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteurs are Messrs. Laaouej and Piedboeuf.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip087x.u4	Mr President, I refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip087x.u5	Thank you, Mr. Laaouej. Mr. Piedboeuf does the same. We start with the opposition. Mr Laaouej has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip087x.u6	Mr President, the Minister of Budget, the Minister of Finance, ladies and gentlemen, let's say at the outset, the government's 2016 budget is not on its way. I'm sorry to start this way, but the truth has its rights. The budget train continues to derail; it does not date today and it is not close to stopping. Indeed, your budget balances between approximations, foresights and some mystification. In the unstable environment we know, what is expected of the government is to show a great sense of responsibility. You haven't used us so far to a very serious one and it's hard to trust you. Should I recall the episode of the 750 million, which became 600 million, which the Regions were unjustly deprived of as regional additions? Do I need to mention the underestimation of corporate tax and VAT revenues that have led you to have to adjust your 2015 budget for almost 800 million euros for this problem alone? Do I have to say here the little credit – and this was confirmed by the facts – that the Court of Auditors gave to your estimate of the budgetary performance of your new measures? That was true in 2015, it is still true in 2016. All of this we have already said in this rostrum, and each time you have swept our observations and our criticisms with a back of your hand. A budget, of course, is a forecast, and we cannot expect precision to the euro, we agree. But the budget is also a matter of trust. And you will admit that your heavy mistakes of the past, yet identifiable and identified, errors in which you have locked yourself up, refusing to hear our warnings, do not plead for you to be given that confidence. Unfortunately, when we look at the 2016 budget, things are not going to improve. You are continuing in the denial of economic and budgetary realities, which is quite regrettable. Colleagues, our public finances and our economic parameters still bear the stigma of the 2008 economic and financial crisis. In the European Union and in particular in the euro area, economic growth is weak, with Belgium not losing sight of this fact. Our main economic partners are also experiencing difficulties, either proven or in the future. Consider in particular the possible effects on Germany of China's uncertain economic development. Not to mention the fact that in recent years our social security has had to cope with growing needs linked to the negative effects on the real economy of the deregulation of global financial markets. Fortunately, social security has been able to play its role as an economic stabilizer and has allowed domestic demand not to collapse, even though it has become somewhat crowded. As a result of the efforts undertaken in recent years at different levels of power, job creation despite the difficult context will have prevented a strong growth in unemployment which could have worsened the situation. As for the international environment, it is unstable, as you know: war in the Middle East, difficult political and economic relations with Russia, chaotic evolution of oil prices, global refugee crisis, climate challenge – to take just a few examples. In the course of our work, much has been said about the policy of the European Central Bank, which is becoming more flexible. However, the long-term effects cannot be measured decisively. We must of course not forget to add the importance of the development of public debt, whose control remains a challenge (not yet met at this stage) and a necessity. Unfortunately, this development is worrying and is not close to getting better, when we look at the report of the National Bank and the Office of the Plan, which estimates for 2020 a growth of 1.1 of GDP the consequences of your policy in this regard. It's huge! It is in this perilous context that we are given to examine your budget. The least we can say is that he is not up to the stakes. Budget 2016, like the 2019 fiscal trajectory, does not reflect a lucid vision, whether in the short or medium term, and no longer in the long term. You do not meet the imperatives of the present and you compromise the future. There is a reason for that. You have locked yourself in the promise of a so-called major tax reform, the shift tax, which mixes under the same term labour tax cuts, reductions in employer social contributions, increases in consumption tax, for the most part, and – marginally – some additional levies on capital income. The fact is that, noting the impossibility of keeping the promises announced on the eve of the last summer vacation, you had to review your copy and increase the budgetary means dedicated to your promises, but without financing them. This is what you pay in your 2016 budget. This political act of unfunded tax reform will have far-reaching consequences in the medium term: it will exacerbate our structural deficit, undermine the new policy capacity of future federal governments, increase the bills of future generations and weaken us in the face of the challenge of the cost of aging. You could have had the courage to finance your labour tax reduction but not by increasing taxes on consumption. This is giving with one hand and taking over from the other. Neither, as you have done, by cutting both in public services and in social security. For this is to send the bill – an insidious bill – to our fellow citizens. Now, all this, all that I have just described, you have done. Not only did you do it, but it's not even enough to fund your tax reductions. And it is not the meagre and uncertain revenues on capital that you expect will change something to that. Our citizens do not only need tax reform, they need fair tax reform. Just because they are not emptied of their pockets on the pretext of filling them up a little, just because they are not deprived of public services and social protection, just because we are ensuring that the reduction in labour taxes corresponds, at the same time, to a more equitable taxation on capital. We will have the opportunity to return on Friday to the tax shift, but we will already recall what appears from the general presentation of the 2016 budget regarding the financing of this tax shift, on page 15. For 2016, you reduce employers' contributions and other business expenses by EUR 845 million. And, still in 2016, you will reduce labour taxes by 858 million. To finance the whole, you increase consumption taxes by 1.1 billion, capital taxes by 549 million – I will have the opportunity to say how hypothetical this is. You are planning, for the financing of your tax shift, on a Belfius dividend of 75 million, on an annuity from the National Lottery of 30 million and, finally, on 100 million euros of savings. These figures and this table are clear. In 2016, the increase in taxes on consumption far exceeds the reductions in labour taxes: 1.1 billion more on consumption in 2016 and 858 million less on labour. In 2016, for at least 250 million euros, it is therefore households that will finance the reductions in employer contributions. For this reason in particular, and there are many others, your budget is antisocial. You have made, as I said, another choice: an unfunded tax reform, which leads to your fiscal trajectory. Let us be concrete: on page 58 of your general presentation, the structural balance of 2019 announces an additional €3.15 billion effort. You will have to say and explain to us throughout the debate that this has nothing to do with the tax shift, you will only convince yourself. As if the tax shift had no effect on the evolution of tax revenues! It is wrong to know the realities of the budget that you are saying this and you know it. It should be noted that these 3.15 billion missing already incorporate the return effect you estimate at 900 million euros. The question is what you're going to do. Are you going to increase consumption taxes? Will you, once again, increase VAT, excise duty or raise the soda tax? Isn't that enough for you? Will you continue to suffocate the public services and provoke their ongoing degling? Will you still cut into the social rights and social protection of workers and their families, pensioners, beneficiaries? Will you have the courage to tell us, in this forum, how you will return to balance by 2019? So far, you've been careful not to tell us more. One thing is for sure, that such an attitude is not responsible. But let us take a closer look at this figure of EUR 3.15 billion. Isn't it underestimated? Isn't the real effort to make by 2019 more important? We must already add the 400 million euros you have pledged to add for security. I will return to that point. Take into consideration the 2016 budget, which already brings in it the worsening of your structural deficit by 2019 and let's take a short look. Let us first look at the recipes. As I said earlier, on the occasion of my introduction, you became a master in the art of swelling. Beware! If you want to swell your balloon too much, it could explode. Looking at the situation in detail, VAT on electricity increases from 6 % to 21 %. The Office of the Plan retains a budget return of $572 million in cruise speed by 2020. The fact is that VAT has already entered into force. In your budget, you keep 1.2 billion, 712 million coming from the increase in the rate from 6 to 21 % - to which you add 250 million for regularisation, correction and 249 million for a technical correction on which, like the Court of Auditors – excuse me for a little – we find no explanation. In total, you count, for the increase of the VAT on electricity, on an additional revenue of 1.2 billion, while for the Office of the Plan it is mentioned, at the most, of 572 million. In other words, you're holding the double. In these circumstances, how do you want us to consider your budget serious? But that's not the only problem. Let's take the Cayman tax. Obviously, you have listened a little to what you have been told, since you have tabled last-minute amendments which, thanks to the flexibility of the opposition, may be able to be adopted in due course in this House. However, this will not solve all the problems. There you type high, you indicate 460 million euros of revenue! The Court of Auditors may tell you that there is a risk of tax evasion and circumvention, and the tax journals tell you the same thing. When you are told that there may be a need to review the wing of your estimates, you say that you will be able to do so. No one believes it! Not even your tax administration! When you read the records of your tax administration, on which the Court of Auditors bases its analysis, it explains that it estimated the revenue on the basis of the few elements in its possession, that is very few things. It estimated that 460 million was the maximum limit of the maximum estimate. Nothing does, no caution, no reserve, you take the maximum amount. You will have bad surprises, especially since we cannot see this measure in isolation, we must see it in connection with tax regularisation. One cannot draw two revenues from the same flow: either people will go to regularize and pay regularization, or they will pay the tax transparency. Both at the same time, it's impossible! You are well aware of this, since the amendments you have submitted to us seek to bridge the gap between the two measures. Your Cayman tax is obviously overstated. This is the second important source of revenue that is visibly over-vitamined, over-inflated. You say that the tax regularization will bring you 250 million. Except the text is still not ready! He is referred to the Conciliation Committee. When will it be adopted, if it is adopted one day? We don't know! As far as the figure of EUR 250 million is concerned, the Court of Auditors tells you to be careful because if we look at previous years, the regularisations give very fluctuating results. The recipe you indicate is very random. Be careful! Here too, you do not take account of the Court of Auditors' remark and you continue to indicate 250 million. But is this really a structural measure? Once taxpayers have regularized their situation, should you expect that for five or six years each year, you will be able to count on a revenue of $250 million? Here too, you're wrong! Here too, it's time to see the sail again! I'm coming to another point. There are two important taxes in the budget that are disputed and challenged before the Constitutional Court. One comes from a previous legislature. This is a good measure that must of course be supported. It is challenged before the Constitutional Court. I hope you have a plan B. But at the same time, this tax – I'm talking about the Fairness tax, this minimum tax for large companies – is supposed to bring in 215 million euros. I hope you have a plan B. Unfortunately, I see nothing in your reflections, in your speeches that reassure us or that would reassure us. I repeat, the risk is not negligible. You have to be able to tell yourself that we have an alternative plan. The second quelled tax is the tax on intercommunals. As you know, we told you, it's not our cup of tea. It is the users who will eventually pay this tax increase that you impose on them, not to mention the communal finances. There's something strange about this. The tax is contested. What are you doing? You're inflating the recipe, like that! From €210 million planned for 2015, you will add €110 million. You now expect 320 million euros, while the tax is being contested and you have narrowed its scope. There is an inconsistency in the approach, in the method which is quite incomprehensible. There too, of course, you don't have a plan B. But when we make the total of these two taxes, we get half a billion. So you have a budgetary risk of 500 million euros. Therefore, the advice I want to address to you is this: prepare for an alternative solution. Another completely nebulous point in revenue is the heading "harmonisation of VAT bases". It's about cosmetic surgery. This also applies to dwellings under ten years of age. But, at the same time, we don't know how you get your calculations. The Court of Auditors does not know that either. Why do you keep a revenue of €190 million? Again, you do not provide a convincing answer. Another source of new revenue is the Sicafi, a financial vehicle to finance real estate. You are expecting EUR 250 million but the text has not yet been voted and, at the time of the committee debates, you were still waiting for the opinion of the FSMA. Here too, you are taking a significant risk. But last but not least, it's 250 million euros! I stop the enumeration here. There would still be a lot to say.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip087x.u7	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip087x.u8	I can do it, Mr. Nollet! A tedious list that shows that your budget is not based on very solid revenue bases. For the 2016 budget you add a return effect of 225 million - we know very well that the return effects are always very random -; 100 million for the redesign of the administration. One word about the nuclear rent - my excellent colleague Karine Lalieux will tell you more - on which there is also a drastic drop in the expected recipe: 150 million euros. Do you really think that's what you're going to use this sector for? Nevertheless, for this budget as for the others, this leads to a significant loss. In short, we are facing a serious breakdown in our public finances. Unfortunately, it is combined with a problem of non-financing the tax shift. So when I add up, between the 3.1 billion that you admit yourself in your general presentation and all the uncertain revenues that I have just listed, the additional effort by 2019 is 5 billion euros.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip087x.u9	What do you think of the National Bank's forecast of the return to $5.7 billion?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip087x.u10	I would like Mr Laaouej to tell us about the effect of the shift tax on cities and municipalities. I take this opportunity to congratulate Mr Thiéry on his victory in Linkebeek.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip087x.u11	Mr Piedboeuf, the National Bank did indeed provide a report estimating the return to employment effects. I told you, but maybe you didn't pay attention. According to the National Bank, the tax shift will lead to an increase in public debt of 1.1% of GDP by 2020. If there is an increase in public debt, it is because your structural deficit has grown. There are no 36 reasons! The 1.1% of GDP is almost the $5 billion I told you about earlier. You're telling me about the job, it's very interesting. There is a problem of estimation between the National Bank and the Planning Office. They don't give the same numbers. Who has the right method? You refused us a debate with the National Bank and the Planning Office. We'd like to dig. We asked for an hour's suspension; you refused it. We have requested a hearing from the National Bank and the Plan Office; you have not accepted it. The National Bank shall make forecasts of the economic outlook on a regular basis. According to its latest forecasts, over the period 2015-2017, 114,000 jobs will be created, but this is not thanks to your tax shift. If we go back to previous years' forecasts, we are talking about a net increase of 14,000 jobs. According to the National Bank's latest forecasts, your policy could create 14,000 jobs. If we combine 14 000 jobs with an ex ante tax shift costing more than 6 billion euros, you will understand, Mr Piedboeuf, that there is a better way to put public money! On the expenditure side, the situation is not much better. You're pursuing your austerity policy. Unfortunately, I miss time to talk about everything. I refer to the very good report of the proceedings. Mr Piedboeuf was the co-rapporteur. Your budget proposal is very worrying and announces difficult days for users of public services and the functioning of our administrative or judicial institutions. First of all, I will give you a general reflection. Since your government agreement, you have implemented a policy of austerity on all floors. You cut all expenses blindly. I can make the details, but the Court of Auditors has done so in my place. By 2019, you're setting aside €650 million in savings that you're pudically re-designing the administration, a nebulous expression that actually hides savings in the departments. When you were asked to explain in the Finance Committee what this redesign was, you sent us back to Mr Vandeput, Minister for Public Service. In other words, at this stage we still have no information! Actually, what are you doing? You're inventing budget tartufery. Hide those savings that I can't see! But we're not fools. Last year, we fired the alarm bell announcing that some savings were untenable. And the fact is that you had to take exceptional asylum measures, reopen places that you had closed, not to mention security policies that we were struck by the shock of the attacks in Paris. Now you're finally determined to reinvest in security. And that is where we ask you to take your responsibilities structurally by allocating sufficient resources to the services to be able to function effectively. What we must deplore is that there is generally in your head and methodically a will to plan the means, a kind of blindness that is driven by ideology. And there is a steady return to this ratio of public expenditure, which would ultimately be higher in Belgium than elsewhere. What you do not see is that it corresponds to needs, except when faced with tragic events. That is what, in your leadership, is a mixture of recklessness and irresponsibility. We're going to focus on this $400 million provision. We can't do anything other than talk about it. Four hundred million is a first step, but it is not enough, given the savings you have put into security-related departments. This provision for safety must be structural, recurrent. At this stage, we still do not know whether you are considering turning this interdepartmental provision into measures or structural revenue for the budget. More concretely, in order to ensure that we can move towards this balance, which is the honour of our democracy, a balance between public order and public freedoms, we propose a three-thirds distribution. The first third for the community police, the police zones, because that is where supervision and prevention can be carried out on the basis of a police approach. The second third for the federal police in order to combat serious crime, networks – terrorist networks in particular – their financing, all this implies. The third third, indispensable, for prevention. Fighting radicalism does not only require repression. It also requires investment in detection, supervision and education, which is why we urge you to strengthen cooperation between the federal government and the Communities. These are concrete proposals! Are you going to have the lucidity and courage to follow them? In any case, as far as the Socialist Group is concerned – and I thank my colleague André Frédéric for enlightening me on this – these three priorities, if they are not met, would prove that you have made an announcement rather than a real determination. Let me make a few other points about spending. In the area of justice, we have a minister who announces reforms in every direction, while he struggles to manage the misery of the means of his department. When asked why he did not get more money, he sent the hot potato back to his other government colleagues. Minister of the Budget, will you hear what the Minister of Justice is telling you? Here I am making his relay, his spokesman, since it clearly does not work within the government. See what we're facing! On Friday, there will be a general strike in all prisons. We also see the services that our fellow citizens are deprived of: see the reform and disappearance of a whole series of justices of peace, not to mention the problems of the clerks! In short, the problems are glaring. We have to answer that. Justice is a fundamental right. There is no democratic state and a developed state without a justice that has the means to function.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip087x.u12	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip087x.u13	I would like to take this opportunity to wish our excellent colleague Luk Van Biesen a speedy recovery. In the area of defence, we are considering commitments. Does the Defence have the means of its ambitions and will it be able to respond to the appeal that will be addressed to it? One wonders when one sees that the training of our military is now compromised, that the investment credits are almost zero, in any case, very weak and that, on the functioning, the army, like the Justice, manages misery. In the current state of affairs, it seems to me that you also have a share of responsibility. You have submitted this department to a particularly heavy diet, of the order of 1.7 billion euros. It is now recognized that this army must be able, when needed, to respond to a number of missions, not to mention the international commitments that might be its own. That is why, too, there is room for a revision of your budget. On development cooperation, it is not clear how the minister can achieve the 0.7% of GDP target. It can be seen that it makes a number of announcements in its policy note. My colleagues who follow the subject are unanimous in saying that he will not succeed, that he will not succeed in meeting his objectives. There too, powder in the eyes! What is the use of sending ministers to defend a policy note if the means do not follow? As for Health, I will not say that this is the most serious because everything is serious. But there, the 3 billion you are going to look for health in your trajectory, we can see that they will allow you to finance part of the tax reform after all the anti-social measures that have already been taken: the increase in the number of user tickets for some specialists, the reduction of the length of stay in maternity care, the postponement of the application of the third-party compulsory fee for the beneficiaries of the increased intervention which you have refused to extend to chronic patients, the fact that you have also given up, under the pressure of the employer, to extend to two months the period of the guaranteed wage in case of incapacity for work. These are just a few examples. What finally best reflects what I have just told you is the evolution of the standard of health care growth: 3% in 2014, 1.5% in 2015 and, finally, 0.75%, the reality of the budget that you finally set for 2016. Every time, it's a halving. You're drying up the financing of our social protections. This illustrates how well your policy serves nothing but to mask in reality the fact that you are eager to give gifts to the employers you finance by depriving our fellow citizens of a number of basic needs, be they public services or social protection. That is in a few words what I had to tell you about the 2016 budget. It is the image of your government: chaotic and unreliable. Uncertain revenues are in addition to a deficit of more than 3 billion in 2019, which is expected to lead to a minimum deficit of 5 billion. You lead future generations to keep your communication in the short term. You are pursuing austerity on the side of public spending. You are undermining the social security budget through deliberate underfunding, aggravated by reductions in employers' social contributions. But your budget mostly reflects your ideological options. To make people think that they are being taxed more and that they are being deprived of quality services and a high level of social protection, is the basis of your fiscal and fiscal policy. The conclusion is that your real goal is not to return purchasing power to households. Otherwise, why the index jump? Otherwise, why the increase in consumption taxes? I repeat, and this must be done in this forum, your real aim is to give the employer what it asks for. It was read again this morning in the press: the employers are delighted with government policy. What does the boss want? It is very simple: declining social contributions and wage cuts. The boss bench is happy, he gets everything he wants. But for that, you had to pass the pill, you had to tell the public a story, a Christmas tale. This Christmas tale is the tax shift! But not all tales end well! When people are abused, when households and workers are abused, they must be able to cope with the realities. Your tax reduction promises hide – and this is the tragic Christmas tale! – consumer tax increases and cuts in social security and public services. You're abusing the population for a while, but you won't always abuse it. In any case, you will not abuse this Parliament. We will take care to tell you the reality, the reality you hide. In conclusion, let me say one simple thing: your fiscal and fiscal policy is neither fair nor responsible!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip087x.u14	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, before I begin my speech, I would like to thank all the parties, not least the opposition parties, for their constructive cooperation in the Conference of Presidents. We have managed to cross the boundaries of majority and opposition and to organise this week properly. Thanks for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip087x.u15	Mr President, I would like to welcome what Mr Vuye has just said and to point out how much his honesty contrasts with the statements made by some members of the government that everything was in order, that the work on the tax shift had been done in time and that everything had been resolved in July. In fact, it was the opposition, in a very constructive attitude, that saved the inextremis.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip087x.u16	Thank you, Mrs Fonck. The 2016 budget is a historic budget, the tax shift budget. All international organisations have been asking for a tax shift for years, the OECD, the European Commission and the International Monetary Fund. We can only see that the Michel administration realizes the tax shift. That is an historic achievement. The report by the International Monetary Fund, which was issued yesterday, says that the measures taken by the Michael administration, namely wage moderation, pension reform and tax shift, are important for job creation. I would also like to admit that it has not been an easy delivery, but it has become a beautiful baby, with the support of the competitiveness of the companies, the elimination of the unemployment trap, the correction of public finances, the reduction of the debt ratio for the first time since the 2008 banking crisis, and an improvement of the structural balance by 0.8 % of GDP. I will divide my speech into two parts. In the first part I will go into what the Court of Auditors said and make a number of comments at committee meetings in the second part. The Court of Auditors, through Councillor Rudi Moens, has given positive points to the budget. He congratulated the government on having a multi-annual budget up to 2020, so far after the Stability Pact. He stressed that the payback effects were conservatively assessed. It also stated that in the past the underutilisation targets were mostly met and that the amount of 873 million foreseen for 2016 could be realised. Finally, he also said that the estimates of health taxes are reliable. Admittedly, he has also raised a number of critical concerns, including about the caiman tax and other issues for which there are no historical parameters. The Cayman tax is registered for 460 million. However, that is not an arbitrary figure. According to an estimate by the National Bank, there are 57 billion euros of assets abroad, even without taking into account the United States, Switzerland and Luxembourg. However, there is a need for vigilance with regard to the Cayman tax. The model is blown over from the Netherlands, which they've been working on for several years. When the Secretary of State for Finance, Mr Weekers of the VVD, evaluated the Dutch version of the review fee in 2013, that evaluation was positive. The number of separate private assets or APVs, as mentioned in the Netherlands, decreased and some constructions were dismantled. Those are certainly positive aspects. However, that evaluation also found that some isolated capabilities hide behind other cloaking structures, e.g. overhanging foundations. I believe that there is a task for our Finance Minister. He must also be warned of this, because we are likely to have such things. If abuses appear, then they will have to be tackled; that is quite obvious. In my opinion, the caiman tax should be a typical example of an evolutionary load, whereby some escape doors are regularly closed, perhaps even annually. I have said it many times here, but I would like to stress once again that the Cayman tax is a fair tax. After all, those who hide their assets behind structures abroad must also contribute. A second point on which Councillor Rudi Moens was somewhat critical is the permanent tax regularisation, which is registered for 250 million. A historical look back tells us that regularizations are subject to large fluctuations, ranging from 25 million to 300 million. Well, 300 million is still more than the 250 million we have subscribed. The proposed 250 million should not therefore necessarily be regarded as illusory or unfeasible. The Court of Auditors also refers to the consultation with the Regions. It is now the infamous Article 3, § 3 of the coordinated laws on the Council of State. With regard to that article, almost everyone in this sitting has butter on their heads, except for the N-VA. This time the opposition has asked for it and we have allowed it. Let me remind you of some precedents. In the plenary session of 18 December 2003, two MPs asked for the strict application of Article 3, § 3, namely Pieter De Crem and Geert Bourgeois, the latter being the only Member of Parliament for the N-VA at the time. Well, the application of Article 3 (3) was refused by the purple-green majority. In the Finance Committee of 27 June 2013, the N-VA again requested, through Veerle Wouters, the strict application of Article 3, § 3 of the coordinated laws to the Council of State. That was laughed away by the then majority of Elio Di Rupo and voted away. We act logically. We have asked twice for the application of Article 3 but have caught up to twice. We are acting logically and this time, through a majority amendment, we have ensured that Article 3 is applied. That too may be the power of change. Another comment from Counselor Moens is about the trade, 250 million. He says that the modalities still need to be laid down. That is correct and these modalities will be effectively laid down. As far as speculation tax is concerned, the Court of Auditors notes that the yield is difficult to predict. That is indeed the case, there is nothing to argue with. However, hopefully there will be a return, but that all depends of course on the stock market. That is the fate of such a tax. I come now to the second part, a number of comments made in the Finance Committee. I am somewhat sorry that Mr Vande Lanotte is not here. He always likes to quote Eurostat, apparently he has a special connection with it. He says that according to Eurostat's calculations, Belgian GDP will only increase by 0.2 percent in the third quarter of this year. In the second quarter that was 0.5 %. Those numbers are right. Belgian growth is then effectively below that of the euro area, where the average is 0.3 %, and below the average of the European Union, where it is 0.4 %. Why is that? This is because the necessary structural measures are now being taken; savings are now being made. They didn't used to do that, they were supposed to be old recipes. The current reforms and savings will undoubtedly give rise to sustained economic growth in the medium term and not to the creation of ghost or phantom jobs paid by the government. In yesterday's report, the IMF also pointed that out.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip087x.u17	I hear Mr. Vuye with great interest. I have already heard in committee this magical form of thinking that achieving linear savings in the state apparatus would be the best way to create tomorrow an economic system that works, by turning a blind eye to the consequences that this can have on essential missions, including regal missions of security and redistribution. You point out here, Mr. Vuye, the jobs subsidized by the state. With your tax shift and the reductions in social contributions that employers will benefit from, what else do you do than create new subsidized jobs? And what is the cost per job created by this measure, since you have not targeted it on low and medium wages and since you have not conditioned these reductions in contributions? To say that reducing the means of the state in a linear way will automatically generate activity, and deny that here you give employers a blank cheque is lying!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip087x.u18	Mr Gilkinet, I think that we are very different on this point, and you have already asked me this question in other circumstances. I believe that private jobs, jobs created by entrepreneurs, are not subsidised jobs. I don't think you can compare both cases. That does not happen automatically, I would like to admit. I think you have heard from me many times that we will take care of the employers. Mr Timmermans of the VBO has already called on the members of his organisation to ensure that wage moderation goes to job creation. That is a very important point for my party. That this would be a blank cheque, I doubt it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip087x.u19	Mr Vuye, is this statement by Mr Timmermans sufficient for you? You therefore think that automatically, the profits of companies generate investment and employment. You still think like in the '70s, actually. You have forgotten the financial crisis of the 1990s, the financialization of the economy and the explosion of dividends. What commitment has your majority obtained? Will this enormous effort made by the State budget, by the social security budget, be transformed into jobs? That's the question we've been asking you for weeks, and your only answer is, "Mr. Timmermans said that." It's a little short!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip087x.u20	Mr Gilkinet, I think we are ideologically different in this respect. When wage moderation is introduced and labour costs are reduced abroad, we are convinced that this will lead to job creation. You don't believe in that. With you, it's really a matter of faith.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip087x.u21	I can agree that this is part of the answer. But then, focus the reductions in social contributions towards low and medium wages, those who really live the competition. But this is not what you do: you take a linear measure that benefits just as much the highest wages that are not competing with neighbouring economies. And there's a waste of public money. This is why the expected effects in terms of job creation are so small in relation to the resources put on the table. We will, of course, discuss this again in the debate on the tax shift on Friday, and we will table amendments so that, with the same sum, we can leverage the creation of much more effective jobs.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip087x.u22	Mr Gilkinet, we have received the report from the National Bank and the Planning Office on, among other things, the effects on employment. Measures have been taken to address demand and the supply of employment. Contrary to what you say – this is reflected in the conclusion of the National Bank – it is rather low-wage jobs that will benefit from these measures. This is due to the fact that we play on both sides, namely demand and supply, which you completely forget in your argumentation. I honestly believe that by forgetting the relative effect of the offer of work in the discussion on the effects of the tax shift, you are omitting a very important element.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip087x.u23	Mr. Minister of Finance, allow me to refer you to Study Note 97 from the Planning Office, which explains that by focusing resources on the lowest salaries, we are much more efficient. I also refer you to the study of IRES (Catholic University of Leuven) in October, which explains that with the same means as those you devote to tax shift, job creation could be four times higher. This is not the option chosen when you remove contribution reduction plans and apply an absolutely linear measure. Moreover, the creation of jobs and the competitiveness of our economy are not limited to the question of labour costs. We must also take into account the cost of energy, the specialisation of our economy, our economic project, social cohesion and the ability of the most fragile of us to consume, which you put completely aside in terms of economic and social consequences.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip087x.u24	Mr Gilkinet, in the discussion we had in the Finance Committee, I have already said that I fully agree with you that when it comes to competitiveness, we must also take account of the cost of energy, the cost of mobility and not just consider the cost of labour. That said, that does not mean that the latter is not important or more important. In any case, it is very important and the government acts at this level. As far as your first point is concerned, I am prepared, as was the case in committee, to enter into a debate on the characteristics of the models of the Planning Office and the National Bank. It's generally recognized. External experts point out that the economic model of the National Bank is much more developed with regard to the micro-economic effects, hence the effects on the changes that will occur in the behaviour of economic agents, as is said in the language of economic models. This is due to the fact that the effect on low wages is much more pronounced, particularly in job creation. It should also be added that the problem of employment is of a general nature. Companies will be attracted to employ people with different characteristics, different wages. The problem of wage costs concerns each level. If we try to focus solely on the lowest wages, it is possible that nothing changes in investment because necessarily companies need to resort to a plethora of job categories. Measures must therefore have an impact on all levels.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip087x.u25	Mr President, I will not repeat his references to the Planning Bureau and the National Bank. Mr Gilkinet, you have doubts about some of the statements made by representatives of employers' organisations. The projections made by the National Bank and the Planning Bureau are, of course, future projections. We have confidence in that. The past has proven that some of these projections are becoming reality. You seem to have less confidence in it, but perhaps you will have confidence in the real figures of the last year, to which I referred during the debate on the State of the Union. The wage cost reductions did not start on 1 January 2015. We are putting it in place and we will strengthen it in the coming years, thanks, among other things, to the tax shift, but we have also made wage cuts in 2013 and 2014. We have also pursued a wage policy in the previous years. I refer to the figures of the RSZPPO and the RSZ. These are figures on jobs in the private sector. We have created jobs this century, but very many of them in the public sector. They cost a lot of money, but they still had and still have a social relevance. In the private sector, I compare the figures from the third quarter of 2013 with those from the third quarter of 2014, the latest figures available at that time................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ The figures will improve in this way. History shows it and the future will prove it, Mr Gilkinet.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip087x.u26	Mrs Temmerman has the floor, then Mr Gilkinet and then Mr Vuye, because it is obviously not the intention to eliminate the speaker.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip087x.u27	Mr Verherstraeten, what you forgot to mention is that you did say it between the lines and you referred to the report on job creation. I'd like to dot the "I" with that. Mr Verherstraeten, Minister, Mr Vuye, we are all in favour of creating jobs. That is the first thing we all want. You may deny it, however, you have just admitted it, Minister, but a lot of studies show that more jobs are created when wage cuts are made at the lowest wages than when they are carried out linearly. I am not saying that jobs are not created in the case of a linear reduction in the wage burden, but one simply creates more jobs when a reduction in the wage burden is made for the lowest wages. That is obvious, because the burden on those wages is proportional. That's just math. You admitted it a little earlier, but that is not really what the debate is about. We all want more jobs. It would be better to focus on the lowest wages. You don't do that. You work for a big piece of linear. (Protests from the majority) You say that a measure has more effect on low wages, but you give all wages a reduction in charges. You won't deny that. That's not really my point. We want as many jobs as possible. The question here is who will pay for the reduction of charges. That's the point. Who will pay them? Those are the ordinary families again. Look at the tax shift. There's a shortage there. What will be the result? Who's gonna pay for that again? Those are the ordinary families. That's what the discussion is about. I hope that we will create many jobs, but I hope that you will also have the courage to make everyone pay and not just the ordinary families and the ordinary working people.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip087x.u28	To Mr Verherstraeten, as regards our confidence in the statements made by the President of the FEB on the actual creation of jobs as a result of the tax shift, I would like to reply "scaled cat fears cold water"! I remember the measure of notional interests which today weighs more than EUR 3 billion on the state budget and which has had no effect on job creation. The effort on public finance revenues does not translate into job creation. The largest players, in particular multinationals, benefit from the system but do not hesitate to lay off very widely. Hence the need to introduce elements of conditionality. You refer to studies on employment trends where the number of employees is actually increasing. This leads me to believe that the expected increase following the tax shift is not spectacular since the process is structural. Despite its cost, the added value of the measure is really not spectacular. You are still saying that a lot of jobs have been created in the non-market and that it costs. I repeat that the measurement of the tax shift here, per unit, represents a huge cost. On the linear dimension of contribution reductions, what the Minister of Finance has said is very important. Whatever is said in the ranks of the CD&V, he has just admitted that it applies to all salaries, including the highest. But it is not those who have a problematic competitive differential, but the low and medium wages. It's the best of the levers. This will affect the less qualified, the young workers, those who need opportunities in the labour market.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip087x.u29	Mr President, I believe that Ecolo has already used up a great deal of his speaking time. Perhaps you will be able to deduct that from their speaking time. So I was talking about the old and the new recipes. It was not about job creation or target group policy at all, Mr Gilkinet. That's not what I was talking about. I was talking about something, but not about the subject you raised during your break. Whatever you say. Again, I was talking about the old and the new recipes. The new recipes that are now being applied ensure that economic growth is reduced in the short term. I was talking about this, not about target groups, among other things. In the long term, those recipes will provide the creation of private jobs. There is proof that the ECB's recipes work. Countries that have followed the ECB recipes note strong increases according to Eurostat: Slovakia + 0,9 %, Spain + 0,8 %. Countries which clearly refuse to apply the ECB recipes also bear the consequences of: Greece: 0.5 %. I come to a second point.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip087x.u30	Before giving the floor, I would ask Mr Van Hees and all the others to respond to the speaker and to avoid any discussion between Members. This was also agreed at one of the previous meetings of the Conference of Presidents, that there should be strict adherence to the idea of responding to the speaker and not starting an internal debate in the Chamber, no matter how much I welcome the interruptions in themselves.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip087x.u31	Mr President, thank you for your comment, which was probably not addressed to me, since I have not yet spoken. Mr Vuye, you say that this will have a positive effect on jobs in the private sector. I will take the example of a well-known private institution in this country, Fortis. This bank has benefited for years from all the gifts that the government has given it, which are above all a boon effect. Indeed, on the one hand, Fortis removes more than a thousand jobs - a great impact on employment! - on the other hand, it distributes two billion dividends. Can it not be inferred that these policies have a very tangible effect on dividends, while this is less clear for employment? Can you tell me if this institution is an exception?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip087x.u32	You asked me exactly the same question a few months ago, or perhaps it was Mr Hedebouw, for example Coca-Cola. Mr Van Hees, perhaps you should ask yourself how many jobs would disappear if no action were taken. On job creation, the High Employment Council discusses 18 000 jobs in 2015 and 94 000 by 2017. The National Bank estimates the impact of the tax shift on 64 000 new jobs by 2021 and the Federal Planning Bureau at 45 000 by 2021. Those are numbers you can't ignore.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip087x.u33	These are estimates, Mr. Vuye. Moreover, when the same institutions make estimates of the cost of the tax shift, all of a sudden, the government claims that their calculations are incorrect. But when it suits the government, it takes these estimates into account. I'm not talking about estimates, I'm talking about real job losses. It's something else, Mr. Vuye!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip087x.u34	Mr Van Hees, if no action is taken and there is no reduction in the pay handicap, more jobs will be lost. That's inevitable. That is precisely what we are trying to prevent, namely that more jobs are lost. More than that, we're even going for job creation. I come to the VAT increase for electricity. I would like to emphasise the following. It is always suggested that the previous government had brought that VAT rate from 21% to 6%. That's right, and that's not true. It was a temporary measure, which applied until 31 December 2015. A number of members of the former government have already admitted that this has been denied by a number of other Members, and I am sure that this is a hidden index jump. In the meantime, we know and have also noticed that the reduction in VAT has struck a gap of EUR 500 million in the budget. The coincidence is that a few weeks ago certain authorities established the following. I will quote two authorities, first a small authority and then a large one. A few weeks ago, Angus Deaton, at Princeton University, received the Nobel Prize for his analysis of consumption, poverty and prosperity. What is the core thesis of his work and oeuvre? This is that a VAT reduction is usually in favour of electricity producers. It won't take long. Indeed, after the VAT reduction, prices have risen again. I will also cite a great authority. After all, Ecolo-Groen likes to criticise the VAT reduction. I therefore quote Mr Wouter Van Besien at the time when the VAT reduction was introduced. He thought it was a farmers' deception. The reduction was antisocial, expensive for the government and bad for the environment. In this way, we would not achieve the environmental objectives.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip087x.u35	Mr Secretary of State, the problem that was raised at the time, and which I will repeat earlier in my speech in the rostrum, is the lack of investment and support for citizens to reduce their energy consumption, as well as for businesses. At last weekend's Paris summit, a consensus was reached, which is a pleasure to see. Tell me, in your budget, what prepares the meeting of these issues that are no more or less than the safeguarding of the planet? What we have said in relation to these measures is that there is an urgent need to help our businesses to consume less energy, be it electrical energy or carbon energy, in order to create jobs, to enable citizens to achieve savings and to have a better living environment. That remains our priority. It's extremely structuring. This is a company project that I can't find in your budget!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip087x.u36	I come to a third point of criticism, in particular that the great powers are left alone. That's not the case either. A quarter of the effort, up to EUR 2.2 billion, is borne by the assets. I would like to repeat the N-VA position on this matter. I had the pleasure of receiving a trade union delegation two weeks ago. I have noticed that they do not know the N-VA position on this matter at all. Our position is sufficiently simple. Capital tax is something other than capital gains tax. We already know property tax in Belgium in the form of inheritance tax, registration tax and property tax. We are even in third place in Europe in this area. This is a tax which in practice is very often paid by the middle class. A capital gain tax is something else. I have always said that this can be discussed for us, but under a number of conditions. There must be an exemption for the small saver. That burden must not end on the shoulders of the middle class. There must be a solution for the negative values. Finally, it should be an open discussion. What we do not want as a capital gain tax is the alternative of Ecolo-Green. I refer to an authority, Mr Van Rompuy, which is very often quoted by Kristof Calvo. I quote Mr Van Rompuy: "By increasing taxes by EUR 8.5 billion and a capital tax of more than EUR 250 000, including the home, ordinary workers and pensioners will be affected much more than the index jump. You will notice that I read your blog with a lot of attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip087x.u37	Mr. Vuye, there are other quotes from Mr. Van Rompuy you should take on your own account.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip087x.u38	Others will follow.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip087x.u39	In particular, the budgetary soundness of the financial year. He has the merit, in the majority, of not handling the language of wood. I agree with him on some of the analyses, but not on the one you just formulated. Because, what Mr. Van Rompuy knows, but that he does not mention on his blog, or when he interrupts us in the gallery, it is that from this amount, we have to deduct all the taxes that we remove to simplify the taxation on capital, especially everything that concerns inheritances. In the equation that we have had the merit of presenting, in our budgetary alternative, there is certainly a large amount of capital contribution to effort, which we fully assume, but it must be inferred from this figure that you quote from a series of capital taxes that we remove in order to have a simpler and more efficient system elsewhere. It's a gross figure and not a net figure. We have explained this on several occasions to Mr. Van Rompuy, who is very interested in our work. I repeat that we have had the merit of producing an alternative budget. However, you do not mention it, because it does not mention it either. It therefore lacks an essential element in this reasoning.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip087x.u40	Mr Van Rompuy, I notice that your blog is being read and quoted very selectively. What we do not want is the millionaire tax, as the PVDA suggests. It goes against a number of fundamental freedoms in which we do believe. We believe in individual freedom and are certainly not in favour of a capitalist. Fourthly, I come back to Mr Vande Lanotte, who referred once again in the Finance Committee to Eurostat, as he is so keen to do, and to the figures that would be bad, in order to conclude that the Di Rupo administration was ultimately doing better than the Michael administration. The President of the National Bank of Belgium, Mr Smets, has already said that Eurostat's business is not really reliable. These are quarterly figures based on a sample. If you want to use these figures, you have to use a trend sequence. If a trend series consisting of several quarters is used, employment in Belgium is seen to stabilise at 67.2%. The 2016 budget is in order. The tax shift is being realized. That's historic. I have just referred to Mr Van Hees' question about the 94 000 jobs that the High Council for Employment proposes, the 64 500 jobs according to the National Bank and the 45 000 according to the Court of Auditors. The objective remains to achieve the balance in 2018. The IMF said yesterday in its report that debt reduction and the efficiency of public spending will now be the major tasks. It's possible. There's barely any savings in social security. The IMF also refers to this. There are efficiency gains in health care, a better resource test can be done on social benefits, the linking of unemployment benefits to job search can be better and the IMF also recommends that the bridge pension be completely abolished. I know people are laughing at this redesign, but I think that major efficiency gains can be achieved from the functioning of the government. Government operating expenditure is now 8% higher than at the beginning of the century. That's something that speaks for itself. Some measures were not charged by models of the Court of Auditors or the Planning Bureau because they were sufficiently developed. This is the case with redesign and social expenditure measures. We do assume that the tax-shift budget will ensure economic growth. That is what we have to take care of, that is ultimately the miracle that we will have to try to do: 1% growth makes a difference of 2 billion in the budget. My group will therefore approve and fully support this budget.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip087x.u41	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, to govern is to set a course. And stick to it. It is to have a vision of the objectives. Clear objectives. A certain idea of his country, an ambition for him and his inhabitants. To govern is also to give oneself the means of its ambitions. Our Government, abandoning the short-term vision, set itself with determination a little more than a year ago, a course which should enable Belgium to return to the path of competitiveness, employment and growth by ensuring that solidarity is maintained. The 2016 budget presented to us today is part of our majority's desire to follow the path of reform, because our country needs it, because its inhabitants and businesses need it. The 2016 budget presented and supported by our Minister is a clear and ambitious budget. It reflects the need to do even more for job creation, to encourage the spirit of enterprise, to reduce the burden on work. Competitiveness is also a reflection of the desire to fight fraud, for justice and security, while taking into account the current economic context. Having analysed it, the Court of Auditors stresses that the multiannual perspective is a fundamental improvement over the previous situation, since it allows an objective assessment of the sustainability of the proposed measures. The Court also points out that revenue and expenditure forecasts are based on a structural approach by neutralizing non-permanent measures. This also meets a European requirement and allows for a better understanding of budgetary results. In addition, the Court notes that the government's macroeconomic tables show that the structural balance is changing favourably. Of course, since the exercise is to issue an objective and verifiable opinion on the validity of the figures, the Court has expressed reservations about the performance of certain measures, but it is not because it is unable to validate certain assumptions that they are false. These assumptions are the result of an economic vision, strategic choices. Similarly, it is understandable that it is difficult to determine the performance of certain measures, the practical and precise terms of which still need to be defined, but this does not mean that performance is uncertain. It is simply not possible to measure its exact magnitude and it is the role of the Court of Auditors to be cautious. She gives advice, counsel. It does not decide and, above all, it must not assume responsibility for its choices. As one of its officials said at its hearing, "the Court of Auditors' great annual frustration is that it is a Court of Auditors and not a Budget Court". She said it! You were there, Mr. Nollet! The important thing is the general conclusions. With regard to the 2016 budget, the subject of today's discussions, it should be noted that the Court of Auditors does not in any way call into question its validity. The September 2015 economic budget forecasts growth in our country of 1.3% of GDP, a percentage confirmed by both the IMF and the European Commission. The underlying parameters are therefore realistic. The Commission also gave a positive opinion on this budget. Controlling public finances, the result of citizens' taxes, means ensuring a better managed federal state by pursuing the objective of budgetary balance by 2018, and ensuring, of course, that it is in line with the stability programme 2015-2018. The Commission welcomed Belgium's 2016 budget to be broadly in line with the provisions of the Stability and Growth Pact. Until last year, the deficit was over 3%, Mr. Nollet. Additional measures were therefore needed. Today, for the first time, we are able to stay below this threshold. We are making one of the most important structural improvements in the euro area. It is a further sign that our majority has taken on their responsibilities and has chosen the right direction, the direction of responsible sanitation, constructive rigour, sustainable structural efficiency. Rigor and not austerity – the words are important – because sanitation measures are neither blind nor dogmatic and contribute to the deployment of measures to support the purchasing power, employment and sustainable financing of our social model. This 2016 budget meets the same characteristics of rigour and ambition, since it devotes one of the great achievements of the past year, namely the tax shift. The latter is the result of a twofold choice: to strengthen economic development and to clean up public finances in order to ensure the sustainability of our social model. A first step was the increase in lump-sum professional fees for workers in 2015 and 2016, the extension of bonuses to social and tax employment, from 1 August 2015. Increases in the tax employment bonus are still planned in 2016 and 2019. The government now intends to take a further step in lowering the charges through a combination of three methods: an increase in lump-sum professional fees, a reform of tax rates, an increase in the amount of tax-exempt income. And as early as 2016, workers will see their net income increase directly on their payroll. In addition, measures will be taken to increase the competitiveness of our enterprises: reduction of the employer's burden from 33 % to 25 %, specific provisions for the self-employed and SMEs, anticipation of the exemption from the occupational allowance for night and shift work, measures aimed at investment in the form of a doubling of the deduction for investment and the promotion of high technology. The government is strengthening citizens' wages sustainably and reducing the burden on work, while maintaining the consolidation of our public finances to ensure the sustainability of our social security. The National Bank and the Plan Office simulated the impact of the shift tax on key macroeconomic parameters. Both conclude that there is a significant improvement in household growth, employment and disposable income. The two simulations also indicate significant feedback effects that have not been fully taken into account in the financing of the tax shift due to caution and seriousness. The government (and in particular the Budget Minister) is aware that, while structural consolidation measures need to be defined, regular monitoring is also needed to check whether there is a need to adjust the measures to ensure fiscal balance, taking into account macroeconomic parameters.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip087x.u42	Mr. Piedboeuf proposes a budget monitoring. We are applicants!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip087x.u43	Permanent monitoring.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip087x.u44	We are then twice asking for it. How could things be organised in the Finance Committee in this respect, Mr Piedboeuf?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip087x.u45	Excuse me, you cut my whistle. I think the Minister of Budget will have no difficulty reporting to you on a regular basis on the state of finances and budget implementation. All financiers practice this way. As for your suggestion to hear from the Planning Office and the National Bank, I think that's a good idea. We didn't have time to do it now, but it's a good idea. When one sees the prospects announced, which are interesting, one thinks that, in the end, the government has been modest in its forecasts. It is therefore interesting to see them.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip087x.u46	I am pleased to see the MR joining us in our request for regular monitoring in the Finance Committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip087x.u47	Of course, we have nothing to hide!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip087x.u48	I now turn to the Chairman of the Finance Committee to put this on the agenda at the end of January or even February. That would be a reasonable time.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip087x.u49	He agrees, too. Remember that we must first work on fraud. It's important! [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip087x.u50	I'm not always convinced of his ambitions. In addition to supporting this ambitious programme, the 2016 budget also wanted to address the major security challenges. After the attacks of 13 November, the majority decided to step up its efforts in the fight against terrorism and radicalism. To this end, in addition to the twelve measures announced in January, most of which were implemented, the government announced 18 new measures to provide services with new tools. We will continue to strengthen the equipment and staffing services, while reforming the legal tools enabling them to use all the necessary means, aware that we are urgent to adopt these new instruments in order to deal with a real threat. We must be able to crack down without denying our values, which are the basis of our democracy, but without allowing these values to be diverted to be destroyed. We cannot sacrifice our freedoms, nor can we abandon the security necessary for their exercise. This is not a budgetary correction, as has been mentioned. The new interdepartmental provision of €400 million has been added to the 2016 budget and will enable these measures to be implemented. It is therefore in addition to the amounts already mobilised during the year, in particular the EUR 200 million of the security provision. This €400 million provision will be dedicated exclusively to expenditure related to the fight against radicalism and terrorism. This is a strong measure!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip087x.u51	I would like to make a technical remark, which is nevertheless of political importance, concerning Mr Piedboeuf's last words. This EUR 400 million amendment is not compensated. Is that what you just explained? So, from now on, we can afford, in terms of budgetary technique, to decide at the end of the fiscal year to increase the government deficit without compensating. Is it taken over by the majority? This is important for a whole series of expenses that we consider to be particularly urgent, at least as much as you mention.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip087x.u52	Necessity is law. These appropriations had to be made available. And, like in the case of asylum, we are in negotiations on how to integrate these sums into the budget. It is clear that these are sums to be covered. But it is no big deal: that is what the budget is for, to cover the sudden expenses that are necessary. This happens in all emergencies, when there are tragedies, earthquakes elsewhere. In the coming weeks, the government will analyse the demands and needs of the various services and determine the distribution of funding, not on the basis of an arbitrary allocation key, nor by ignoring the division of powers between federal and federated entities. Effectiveness and proportionality will remain the key words of our strategy to combat terrorism and its anti-chamber, radicalism. It will also be important for the federated entities, for their part, to be fully involved in prevention, which is now part of their competence, and for good cooperation with the federal State. In another aspect of our current affairs, our country has been facing a substantial increase in asylum applications since last May. More than 30,000 applications have already been filed in 2015. The migration crisis is global and everyone has to face up to their responsibilities and their sense of solidarity. The government has made every effort to deal with the crisis and ensure that no one sleeps on the street. The number of places in the reception network has thus increased from 17,000 to more than 31,000 today. At the same level, the government is expected to create 1,000 new places per week. It's a big challenge. A plan for distribution by commune has been decided. It is also available today. New compulsory places will be created, as will new places through new public procurement. The Fedasil network is expected to have between 45 and 50,000 seats in the spring. More than 334 people were hired in the various bodies managing the asylum in order to process the files as quickly as possible. It is impossible to predict what the evolution will be in the coming months. But in order to be ready, the government has decided to set aside €350 million in interdepartmental provision to deal with the asylum situation in 2016. Another important area is the Justice component, whose government budget, through the government's will, has eliminated the backlog of payments. We have seen in the various debates that efforts will be made to achieve structural control of the costs of justice. A "Justice Fees" plan containing no less than 32 actions is already being implemented. In the area of health care, the budgetary framework remains a challenge. The sector is contributing to the consolidation of the budget in order to achieve balance in 2018. It remains essential if we are to be able to provide accessible, quality and affordable care for future generations. Today's sanitation will enable tomorrow's investments. The approved health care budget provides for €458 million in net savings for 2016. At the same time, new initiatives are being taken in the amount of EUR 164 million. Within this strict budgetary framework, and as the Minister of Health often points out, every euro spent must be spent efficiently and optimally. Accessibility to patient care must remain a priority. It is in this spirit that we note with satisfaction the measures taken to reduce the price of medicines. These measures have been implemented in the programme law. I am thinking of the patent cliff and the reduction of the burden of the margin of safety. These provisions will result in savings of EUR 14 million on an annual basis for patients and more than EUR 60 million for health insurance. These measures are intended to support the patient's access to care because costs to the patient remain a crucial element that we must take into account. With these measures, we are already concretizing part of the future pact for the patient with the pharmaceutical industry. We also point out the €4.68 million for the care and care of patients with dual diagnosis, i.e. the combination of a mental disability and a mental problem. It was time to pay attention to them. Resources will be provided to mental health care networks for children, adolescents and adults. These additional resources will enable the networks to strengthen their hospitals or mobile teams. The MR Group also appreciates the Minister of Health's clarifications regarding child care positions. The initial announcement had sparked a lot of excitement among the general practitioners. The optimal organization of a care system in general medicine remains one of our government's top health priorities. The Minister of Health has re-evaluated the economy originally envisaged on guard stations, and the files already introduced at INAMI before 12 October 2015 will be eligible for annual overall funding of €4.95 million. In addition, we support the broader reform of the organization of on-call medical stations, in particular through collaborative agreements with hospital emergency services, but also in the context of the development of the single call number 1733 in collaboration with the Internal FPS. Minister Jambon confirmed this with conviction in a question I asked him last week. Finally, the MR Group fully supports the path of reforms that will be pursued or initiated in 2016: reform of hospital funding, reform of mental health care, reform of integrated chronic health care, the updated "Roadmap e-Health", follow-up to the pact of the future, the multi-annual journey of mutualities, the reform of Royal Decree No 78 and the nomenclature. Of course, the process of consultation with providers and patients must be central to these reforms. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, this majority has set itself a course. She said what she was going to do and she's doing what she said. The 2016 budget is in line with its objectives. Together, we will continue the reforms, we will continue with tenacity and application to take and support the decisions necessary for employment, growth, modernisation of our country by re-establishing the fundamental value of work, by installing structural funding for social security and pensions in the long term. The 2016 budget, Minister, remains well on track and our government is meeting its European commitments, ensuring our country's credibility and continuing its efforts to clean up while giving air to the sectors that need it. The MR Group will therefore support this 2016 budget with enthusiasm and conviction.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip087x.u53	Colleagues, may I ask for your opinion on our work? I should like to point out that a Conference of Presidents is planned. It will be preceded by a Bureau meeting starting at 12 noon. We can suspend the meeting at noon, but it is possible to continue with my College André Frédéric until 1 p.m. We need a one-hour suspension so that the members of our assembly can rest. With your consent, we will continue until 1:00 p.m. I ask the group leaders and Bureau members to join me in room 1 at 12 noon.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip087x.u54	Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, over the last few weeks we have had good, constructive and valuable budgetary discussions in the committees. I should therefore like to express my thanks to the chairman of the Finance Committee for the time he has devoted to the budget negotiations. These are indeed the most important discussions of the parliamentary year, in which Parliament effectively sets out the direction and guidelines for the government's policy. They are useful and necessary. The government is pursuing important structural socio-economic reforms. This was her main task according to Prime Minister Michel's declaration in October 2014. The government is working on a substantial reduction and wage moderation, on a pension reform, on longer and workable careers, on the competitiveness of our economy and our labour market, on growth and job creation, on sustainable government restructuring and on fiscal reform, in particular on the tax shift. Working for competitiveness is indeed the right choice for this government, and for the previous government, in the current circumstances. As my group leader has just said, the previous government has launched the Competitiveness Pact. It introduced a first set of charges reductions. This government is going a lot further on this policy, with further reductions in charges, to which the tax shift is now effectively added. Until the summer of this year there were many doubts about the realization of the tax shift. I remember the debate in July. Then it was said by the opposition that the tax shift is a lot of blah, but he wouldn't get there. Just before the recess, however, the tax-shift agreement was reached within the government. The government has taken action. Mr Vuye has just referred to it, there has been a lot of wavering in the past with reports from the OECD, the European Union, the IMF and so on, in order to introduce tax reductions and a tax shift. Well, we are now ready for a tax-shift agreement. In the meantime, this has also been discussed in committee. It will be discussed in plenary on Friday. We are pleased that EUR 7.2 billion of measures are being taken to strengthen competitiveness, but there are also important purchasing power measures and measures for fiscal justice. Mr Gilkinet asked a question earlier about the reduction of charges and the increase in purchasing power, but I see that he has disappeared in the meantime. Mr Temmerman also asked about it. In this reduction and increase in purchasing power, there is an effective focus on low wages, so that maximum efforts are made to create jobs. In the meantime, I have reviewed the report of the Federal Planning Office and it is on page 2, Mr Temmerman and fellow Members of Ecolo-Groen, that 20% of the reductions in employers' contributions come from the low wages. In particular, a target discount is paid to the construction sector and the non-profit sector, as well as to night and shift work. About those discounts that benefit the non-profit sector, the Federal Planning Office says in its report that 55% of that budget for the non-profit sector goes to low wages. If that's not a special focus on low wages, I don't remember either. It's in black and white on page 2 of the report of the Federal Planning Bureau.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip087x.u55	Mr President, Mrs Smaers, I did not dispute those figures, but you did not listen carefully. I simply said that all studies show that many more jobs would be created if the amount that one wants to spend on the reduction of the wage burden was fully targeted at the lowest wages. This government doesn't. It's targeting everyone. It would be wrong that the lowest wages do not benefit from it! You are talking about 20 %, that is 80 % not. I have simply referred to studies, Mrs Smaers, which say that with an integral focus on the lowest wages, most jobs are created. That's just math. Once again, if we look at this percentage, we see that the lowest wages have the highest wage burden. So that's just obvious, that's not a particular political choice, that's just mathematics. With our criticism, we are at the forefront of the idea that as many jobs as possible should be created by allocating the money that the government wants to spend in this area entirely for the lowest wages.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip087x.u56	Mr President, we have been questioned by Mrs Smaers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip087x.u57	That's right.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip087x.u58	And I thank him for that. Two versions circulate in the ranks of the majority. On the one hand, the CD&V is trying to convince itself that this measure is progressive and will promote low wages. On the other hand, there is the truth that was spoken by the Budget Minister about ten minutes ago. She said she assumed that the highest wages were also targeted. In the debate we will have on Friday on the tax shift, I will provide you, if necessary, with tables showing that this progressivity is absolutely inadequate and that with the same sum, we could focus more on low wages. The problem, which is a little technical, comes from the decision taken by the majority to abolish from 2019 the contribution deduction plan for workers. It is precisely this one that makes it possible to target the lowest wages more closely. You have opted for a linear contribution reduction measure. It's a non-compensatory gift, in other words, a blank cheque.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip087x.u59	Ladies and gentlemen, as regards the social nature of the tax shift, the question of whether it is overflowing to the centre-left or centre-right and whether it is social or not, you must recognize that the figures are those given, for example, by someone with a minimum wage of up to EUR 130 per month. For example, someone who earns EUR 5 000 per month, a nice salary that we all have here, gets an extra EUR 40 per month. So there's a clear shift to the left, to the social side. That is what this reform is aimed at. This is in contrast to the tax reform of purple green. I am also saying this with regard to Mr Gilkinet: that was a different matter. In the tax reform of purple green, huge amounts of money went to... (...): (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip087x.u60	I'm not saying I was against it. Just intellectually-analytically, I'd like to make that point. You are going against a tax reform, while your tax reform, the purple green tax reform, in the early 2000s, was different. Then huge amounts went to abolishing the highest disc of 55 %. Now, however, you are here to criticise. I have mentioned the amounts in absolute figures. In terms of percentage of gross wages, it is a ratio of five to one. This means that the lowest wages expressed in percentages get five times more with this tax shift than the high wages. Please be a little serious.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip087x.u61	I want the debate to continue because it is extremely democratic. However, I would also like to see the commitments made respected and that everyone can speak on behalf of his group without being interrupted at any point in time. This leads to a lack of coherence and a debate between us. It's extremely interesting, I don't disagree, but it's kind of confusing the intervention. I hope to be able to give Mrs Smaers the floor after Mr. Van Rompuy and Mr. Laaouej.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip087x.u62	Mr President, I will have a table distributed to Mr Gilkinet and to all Members. It contains the real percentages of employers' contributions and the reductions that have been made by category of wages. You will notice that for the monthly gross minimum wage of EUR 1 500, the reduction had already been raised to 17.3%. That was already a very low percentage. That's going down to 10.9%. For the average wage, it falls from 26.7 % to 25 % and for the higher wage from 27 % to 25 %. For the minimum wage, 10.9% in 2019 and for higher wages at 25%. The tax shift results in a minimum wage of 6,4% and a higher wage of +2 %. This brings the real employer's contribution to the minimum wage to 10.9% and to the higher wages to 25%. Mr Calvo always asks for figures. Well, I'm gonna have those numbers that totally disprove what you're saying circulated. The Social Affairs Committee made it clear that this measure is intended precisely for the lowest wages. You'll get that table, too, Mrs. Fonck.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip087x.u63	I would just like to say to Mr Bogaert that he is making a mistake of assessment. I refer to the analysis made by the Planning Office at the end of 2001 on the 2001 tax reform. The budgetary cost of abolishing the 55 and 52.5 per cent rates was marginal in the overall cost of the 2001 PPI reform. It is in the order of 200/250 million euros on a reform which, at the time, had cost 4 billion euros. That sounds strange, but the budget cost was really marginal. I can take out the note from the Plan Bureau, which may sound amazing, but the PPI is concentrated in the middle middle classes, you have to know. It is the intermediate middle classes that ensure the essential return of personal tax. You're wrong about a technical point. It doesn't matter in itself, but I'm telling you anyway. Moreover, when you plan to reduce taxes on low wages in order to increase progressivity, you omit to say that the increase in VAT will have a regressive effect. It weighs more heavily on low and middle incomes. In other words, you are neutralizing by increasing VAT on electricity, by increasing excise duties, the possible positive effects on the progressivity of tax cuts in the tax shift. These are two misapproaches that I think are important to report!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip087x.u64	I repeat my call. I still have three requests for a reply. The debate takes an internal turn. I hope that we can respect each and every speaker in the rostrum.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip087x.u65	Mr Van Rompuy, since it is on Friday's agenda, in the context of the debate on the tax shift, we shall start with the tax shift from tables. I will then defend amendments using precise tables, curves, evolutions, because there is a way to do much better with the same sum. I recall one element I have already mentioned in my first reply to Mrs Smaers: as of 2017, you are deleting the social contribution deduction plan, which has a flattening effect on the progression curve. We believe that it will be much more effective to aim for the median wage and not to grant a reduction in contributions for wages beyond the median wage. As for Mr Bogaert, I have two elements in the rainbow government's tax reform. First, it neutralized family choices as part of the tax calculation, which, in terms of taking account of the evolution of the family core, was essential. We probably couldn't have done it with you. Secondly, it has provided for tax reductions for energy-saving investments. Under the rainbow government, we had planned environmental measures to reduce energy consumption in favour of the citizens' portfolio for the planet. Unfortunately, all this has disappeared since then and does not reappear in the budget you are presenting today.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip087x.u66	Mr Van Rompuy, I know this painting very well. That's the government's picture. We just talked about low wages. In this table, it is very interesting to see – it is funny that you never mention it – that high wages benefit from a larger reduction in contributions than the average wages. You never say it, and yet it's very clear. A 2% reduction per 7,000 euros gross; a reduction of only 1.7% over 3,300 euros gross. That is your government's choice!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip087x.u67	I will also respond to Mr. Van Rompuy and his painting. I will refer to the table I presented to the Social Affairs Committee on Monday, which highlights the impact of reductions on the basis of the measures of the previous government's competitiveness pact and the additional impact of the new measures. For low wages, there are 90 euros on the measures of the competitiveness pact and 3 euros on the new measures. If I take the highest income (€5,000 a month), Mr Di Rupo's competitiveness pact was 13 euros, the additional measures were 105 euros. So we see the difference between the effort that is put on high wages (105 euros) and on low wages (3 euros). It is clearly the high incomes that are preferred in the context of the additional measures, without taking into account the recycling of previous measures.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip087x.u68	In any case, the opposition's and the banks' reactions show that the discussion is taking place and that the figures of the Federal Planning Office are not being believed. That's your right. However, I would like to point out that both the report of the National Bank of Belgium and the report of the Federal Planning Agency state that a special focus is placed on low wages, with the result that the greatest job creation is achieved. I would also point out that some reports point out that it is not only or not only low wages that should be targeted, so as not to fall into a promotional trap. That is not the intention, of course. If we want to make work pay, we must also, of course, ensure that growth in work is also rewarding. This must not be slowed down by a measure, which is very well intended, in order to achieve the greatest job creation in low wages. Of course, working for everyone must be rewarding. That is why there is this significant reduction in charges, with a particular focus on the lowest wages. Moreover, after the presentation on the tax shift and the main socio-economic reforms, I did not just want to focus on job creation. The two reports to which I referred have effectively established that 100 000 additional jobs will be created in the coming years. The National Bank of Belgium talks about 64 000 jobs as a result of the tax shift. As a result of the index jump and other wage moderation measures, a job creation had already been envisaged. For the years 2015 to 2017, the National Bank of Belgium confirms that more than 114 000 additional jobs will be created. For a very important part, these jobs will be created in the private sector. As the leader of the group mentioned earlier, that was our intention with this tax shift and these measures. Mrs Temmerman, I come back to a remark you made earlier. You noted that the tax shift and the competitiveness measures were fully paid by the families through a reduction of charges. You said everything would end up on the head of the families again. It would be the families that are going backwards. However, I refer again to the figures of the report of the Federal Planning Office and of the National Bank of Belgium. This shows that, as a result of the current government's purchasing power measures linked to the reduction of charges, families will improve in terms of real disposable income. So that doesn't match the opposition's theory. On the last page of the report of the Federal Planning Bureau, there is a table which clearly shows that by 2021, over a five-year period, the real disposable income of households is improving by 2%. So it is not just about working on competitiveness, but also about working on purchasing power. The families will make effective progress.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip087x.u69	Mrs Smaers, other calculations give different figures and take into account all the additional costs, including the burden imposed on families by the Flemish Government, for example. For a family, it doesn't matter whether something comes from the federal, the Flemish, the provincial or the municipal government. If all these costs are calculated, the purchasing power of families will not improve at all, certainly not at the lowest incomes. I'll have you deliver the table I'm not carrying right now. Mr Vuye just made a number of positive points because of the IMF, but forgot to mention that the IMF also made it clear that something must be done in relation to assets. If things are to be made fairer in Belgium, then we must also look at assets and not just impose the burden on lower wages.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip087x.u70	Smaers, what is important is not just seeing the increase in disposable income but seeing the distribution of disposable income. What is important is to see whether or not your reforms address, reduce or not, income inequality. Disposable income increases by 2% is one thing, seeing who benefits from this increase is another. On the other hand, an increase in disposable income will not necessarily translate into support for domestic demand. People can decide to save part of their disposable income. You must be able to link the statistical figures of the National Bank and the Plan Office with all the other measures you decide to know who pays what and who bears what. As I understand it, the index jump has been put in place to strengthen wage competitiveness. So why does index jump also concern pensioners? Why did the CD&V vote for an index jump on pensions? Pensioners are outside the question of competitiveness. I never understood why the CD&V accepted this.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip087x.u71	Mrs Temmerman, I think it is very important to clarify what the IMF said yesterday. Firstly, the IMF has said that the government is doing well. The government keeps the debt under control. The government will use the tax shift to create an incredible economic revival and create jobs. I do share your opinion, Mrs Temmerman, when you say that it is delivery time for our companies now. We have now created the environmental factors to make economic growth possible in the end, but companies must now fill that in with new jobs. Secondly, the IMF says that the reforms that have been implemented, for example in the area of pensions, are structural. We need to continue such reforms in 2016, including on labour market policy. Thirdly, in view of the fact that interest rates and oil prices are currently very low, the IMF says that the time has come to take action to reduce the high level of government debt. To this end, we need to do two things, according to the IMF. In the first instance, we need to cut expenditure further. Secondly, we need to look at where resources can still be obtained through tax optimisations. Moreover, this must be done in that order.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip087x.u72	Mr President, very briefly, I think we all agree that the analysis of the National Bank and the Planning Bureau is reliable. There is an increase in real disposable income of 2 to 2.5 %. What do we see as the result of the measures we are taking in the context of the tax shift? I agree with what Mr Bogaert has just said. For those who have a minimum wage of 1 500 euros per month, there will be 146 euros net by 2019. For those who have a salary of 5 500 euros a month, a higher wage, 74 euros net is added; that is half. I therefore believe that we can agree that real disposable income will grow effectively, otherwise we must contradict the National Bank and the Planning Bureau. The additional figures indicate that there is indeed a redistributing effect to the lowest incomes.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip087x.u73	Ladies and gentlemen, after my comments on the reduction of wages, I am dealing with the pension reform, which is another important milestone of the government. The government is focusing on longer careers in order to cope with ageing costs. That's already paying off. The Study Committee on Ageing states that the budgetary costs for ageing populations have been halved as a result of a number of measures, including pension reform. In 2014, it appears, the budgetary costs for ageing populations were estimated at as much as 4.2 % for the period 2013-2060. In 2015, one year later, the cost of ageing, taking into account the pension reform, is estimated at 2.1 % for the period 2014-2060, half of which. We must therefore go further in this direction. When we talk about longer careers, working for many people has long ceased to be an obligation to earn only income. Working is also a way of making sense for a long time. Workable work and career security as well as the flexibilisation of work organisation should therefore remain high on the agenda in the coming years. Colleagues, it takes courage to implement structural reforms. Saving takes courage, too. Looking for new revenue to develop new policies, think of the cayman tax, and the speculative tax also requires courage. Allowing the business to take place and transferring the invoice to the next generations requires much less courage. That is why a sustained recovery effort and a clear budgetary path are also necessary. For the time being, we are acting in accordance with the stability programme agreed with Europe. We are flirting with the Maastricht limit of 3%. In 2015, we have a nominal deficit of 2.9 %. The same deficit is expected by the National Bank in 2016. This has been repeatedly said by the National Bank in the Committee on Budgetary Control, which is deeply concerned about public finances. The Court of Auditors has also expressed some reservations. A budget balance is needed to pay for the costs of ageing. In the long term, the reorganisation of public finances does not conflict with growth. We need to focus both on socio-economic reforms and on pension reform for growth, job creation and labour costs reduction. In addition, we must also work towards a balanced budget and a sustained recovery path. We note that this was also stressed that the departmental appropriations rose from 51,336 billion to 52.385 billion. That means about 1 billion extra. If we add up inflation there, we will get about 0.5 billion more. So that's not a nominal freeze. Budgetary challenges remain in terms of funding, not only of the budget and the tax shift after 2019, but there are also questions about other expenditure. I am thinking of the Defence plan to make additional expenditure and a growth path towards 2018-2019 real. We know that there are still many challenges. On the Walloon and Flemish side too, we will see budgets in red in the coming years. Clear agreements, not only with Europe but also with the Länder and local authorities, will be needed. They should be monitored and monitored so that no burdens would be passed on to subsequent generations. Work on public debt, as confirmed by the Minister for the Budget in committee, will continue to be an objective of the government agreement. The Minister for Finance has also pointed this out a number of times. We also think it is necessary for the government to commit itself to reducing public debt. With regard to the additional expenditure on the refugee crisis, which was indeed unpredictable last year, Europe has been asked whether they can be used as amounts for which a flexible budgetary interpretation can be applied. We welcome the fact that this is being discussed with Europe, because it is indeed unexpected expenditure that we, as a European Member State, are making in order to realise what Europe expects of us in terms of refugee reception. As far as the other observations of the Court of Auditors are concerned, I refer to the challenge of the government to effectively achieve the proposed savings on government redesign. That has been referred to a number of times today. Next year it will have to raise EUR 100 million, and by 2020 it will have to raise EUR 750 million. That will also be a challenge. We ask that the government quickly clarify the redesign. How will it be realised? Like all savings and expenditure, the new revenue generated by the tax shift must also be clearly controlled, because the entire agreement on the tax shift and on the budget must be implemented in all facets for us. The key applies to savings and also to new revenue. Colleagues, France and our country have been thoroughly shaken since 13 November. The barbaric acts of that day have rightly resulted in immediate and decisive security measures being taken, including by our government. Security and Justice deserve more resources and above all digital shock. There are many ways to make an organization more efficient. That will be necessary. We do not just want to pump more resources into safety, but also to deal with our security services differently. We want to adapt them to what future crime and terrorism will require. Our security services will therefore need to become more flexible and manoeuvrable. We fully support the government's amendment to the budget, which releases EUR 400 million extra for security. Finally, last week, 12 December, 200 countries committed themselves in Paris to halt the increase in greenhouse gas emissions. Not only for environmental and health reasons, we must make efforts worldwide, and hence in our country, to meet the ambitious climate targets, but also to reduce additional global flows of refugees, we need to work on climate objectives. The global impact of climate change will mean an additional expenditure of 1% to 3.3 % by 2060. This is more than the additional expenditure resulting from the ageing challenges in Belgium. The climate agreement and the achievement of the objectives in this area require particular attention from us, in particular from the government, to continue to focus on budgetary measures in the coming years to achieve the objectives, as well as on reforms. Perhaps, and this is a suggestion from my group, Mr President, that the climate agreement and its objectives in the coming years are a cause for concern. I am not pinning myself on this legislative period only for a third tax shift, but then a tax shift with a view to changing behaviour, sustainability and even more justice, in order to achieve a real greening of taxation. We have also had this objective in the past tax shift; we are not giving up and we want to achieve a third tax shift in the future, with even more attention being paid to the greening of taxation. Ladies and gentlemen, our government is doing what it has to do. Structural socio-economic reforms are at the service of growth, job creation and social progress. There is investment in security, because it is necessary and necessary. The Court of Auditors confirms that budgetary work is structured and over several years. However, the budgetary challenges remain great and it will be necessary to ensure that we achieve a balance in the coming years. We strongly encourage the government and the new Minister for the Budget to pursue all these ambitions and objectives.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip087x.u74	Mr President, Minister, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President-in-Office of the Commission, I believe that it is rather unusual for us to have to complete the full budget debate this last week before Christmas. Mr Borsus, it is an ideal world in which everyone respects deadlines, but that was not easy this year. Know, however, that haste and haste are rarely good. I think it is important for Parliament to have the time and resources necessary to do its work in an elegant and decisive manner. I immediately plead for the release of the government, because there are unforeseen, mitigating circumstances. Minister of Finance, your government has set up an unprecedented tax shift over the past few weeks and months. The legal texts have already been worked out. Who would have thought all this would work? We were able to approve this yesterday and we were also able to celebrate with a "duveltje" from a well-known brewery. I believe that this has been an incredible achievement. In addition to the tax shift, the Rue de la Loi was of course also very busy with the threat of terror, which was not delayed and also required a lot of attention. I would like, on behalf of the Open Vld Group, to thank all my fellow Members for their flexibility and constructive attitude, as Mr Vuye rightly pointed out, that we, the majority and the opposition, have been able to complete our work. Should you doubt it, this is in the interests of the country, of our economy, but above all of our citizens. The IMF report reaffirmed this yesterday by stressing that structural reforms and the implementation of the tax shift put Belgium back on the map. I won't repeat everything. I would just like to make a few points on behalf of my group and above all show that this government makes a difference in this way. I think that today the world economy is still recovering from the banking crisis............................................................................................................................................................................ Flanders received a beautiful Christmas present from KBC, which we earned at that time with quite strict conditions. Memory's short. This banking crisis is still haunted by our economy and we should not underestimate its consequences. It is therefore a good thing that Europe is moving towards a higher acceleration, that the European Union is moving away more than ever through crisis management and firmly opting for a growth strategy. The money presses in Frankfurt are running at full speed, Juncker's investment fund is in the scaffolding and rarely oil prices were so low. This should enable the European Union and all its Member States to resume economic growth, which in turn gives breathing space to tackle things such as state reform in a structural way. One condition, of course, is that everyone does their homework. It is easy to point the finger at countries like Greece, but let us wipe it at our own door here in Belgium. In politics, a little honesty never hurts. It is important to recognise that the previous government has undoubtedly put in place a reversal with a firm recovery effort of 6 billion, which it has carried out in a good two years. This government continues on this path, with the ambition to do even better. With this budget, we are constantly forcing the deficit below the European 3% standard. We are doing this, above all, as I stressed in committee, with structural efforts, which will enable us to improve our structural balance by 0.6% or 3 billion euros for the second year in a row. In doing so, let it be said that we are back among the better students of the euro area. So we are sticking to the Stability Pact as agreed. That is the merit of this government. Let's be clear, we're definitely not there yet. A sustained and, above all, structural effort remains necessary to achieve a sustainable budgetary balance in a few years' time, with a focus on sustainability. This is important for our international credibility, especially in these times, and also for our reliability as a country. Above all, it is important for our economy and our future. Madam Minister, Minister, it is easy to forget, but a budget in balance is a relief measure in itself. Such a budget no longer imposes burdens on future generations. I have often stated in Flanders in a different role of speaking in the Chamber that I wanted to spare my children that they should only talk about savings when their time has come. I have been standing here since 1988 and I note that 27 years later I am still saving money and talking about unacceptable public debt. So let's work on it. Ladies and gentlemen, a balanced budget is important, but I do not think it is an end in itself. Madam and Minister, I often use the wrong words to say that the Finance and Budget Ministers are not accountants who are working here and there to maintain balance. In my view, a budget is an indispensable instrument, a powerful lever, for implementing the desired political policy. In other words, a budget is a means to drive the economy forward, to give impetus and to secure the financing of our social security. It was my good friend Dirk Sterckx who always said that one should bake the cake before one can distribute it. That's how simple wisdom is. Let's make the cake bigger, then there's more to eat. I think this government has understood that better than anyone. Her project is one job, one job and another job from day one. It uses the budget to achieve this. Any action taken by this government is part of a growth strategy. Luckily, the time we have here and there is behind us a little bit of work to be done to dampen the budget drains. First of all, we are saving heavily on ourselves, on the functioning of the government. Primary public expenditure is falling for the first time and falling from 52% to 50.5 %, a net decline of almost 7.5 billion euros. For the sake of clarity, that money no longer comes from the pockets of businesses and citizens, and ultimately it should no longer be collected in order to guarantee its own services. At the same time, this does not prevent the government from investing in its fundamental core tasks, such as guaranteeing our security, especially in these times. Griet Smaers rightly said that we are pumping 400 million extra pumps in Justice, Police and Intelligence. Unfortunately, these investments are much needed, as has been shown in recent weeks and months. In addition, this government is continuing the reforms. This is very important, because these reforms are crucial to make the economy and the budget fundamentally healthy in the long term. In this context, I am thinking first of all of the completion of the pension reform. This already means that pension costs are seriously slowing down. We all work a little longer, but we guarantee that everyone can count on a decent pension. In order to achieve this, we make early departures less attractive and encourage everyone to stay at work longer. It is not unimportant that pensioners can now earn unlimited extra income. According to the Federal Planning Office, these pension reforms already save 8 billion or nearly 1.9 % of GDP per year. We will have to pursue these reforms in a sensible and cautious manner. We are also making structural efforts in social security and health care. The whole world is right to envy our top health care system. No one among us is thinking of cutting back on quality, not even this government, on the contrary. However, we must dare to recognise that efficiency gains are possible, that the functioning of sickness funds, for example, can be more effective, that cooperation between hospitals should also be possible and that, unfortunately, the use of public funds is still inappropriate. The recent news about the misuse of the CT scans is proof of that. Minister De Block takes up the glove and cuts where possible, but also invests where appropriate. In 2016, it saves almost half a billion while lowering the patient's bill and putting in place a new policy to improve the quality of care. Not only does the government reform, it also tackles abuses, fraud and tax evasion. There is only support for taxes if everyone contributes their share fairly and respects the rules, but especially if the taxes are accepted as fair, the famous fiscal compliance. That's why we're strengthening the BBI and closing the grid around foreign constructions. It is also important that we pay more and more attention to respect for the rights of taxpayers. In this respect, we must not throw away the child with the bath water. Our group fully supports the initiatives of Secretary of State Tommelein in the fight against social fraud and looks forward to working in parallel with you, Minister Van Overtveldt, in order to tackle the tax fraudsters severely. Ladies and gentlemen, in addition to these reforms, the government is also using a secret weapon, an accelerator, to strengthen the economy, job creation and purchasing power. The tax shift is a real revolutionary fiscal reform, which is the exponent of this government's growth strategy. The tax shift that we are achieving is unseen for two reasons. First of all, she's unseen because of the size. We will shift €7.2 billion in total between 2015 and 2018. Secondly, it's not just a very extensive tax shift. Also important is the context in which and the moment we carry out the tax shift. It is unseen that such a great reform and shift is being set in motion at a time of low economic growth. These are measures which can usually be expected with very high economic growth of between 3 and 4 %. Minister, Minister, that is why I dare to say that this is proof of what I call an anti-cycle policy, a proof of responsibility, of vision, of courage but also of faith in the future. I gave the example in committee of the payback effects. Mr Dewael, you and I were denounced by the Court of Auditors when we were accused in the reform of registration rights, the introduction of portability and the reform of gift rights that we were going to make a hole in the cash. However, the money was never received as smoothly as after the introduction of these measures. Is that always the case? No. Do we have a glass ball? No. The belief in the future and in volume effects is still very important in order to be able to assess such tax measures on their payback. Colleague, it's about breaking the famous Laffer curve. Through the tax shift we achieve two important goals that are essential to boost our economy that is so necessary. After all, who is in doubt that the measure is necessary and that we should nurture, stimulate and also give confidence to the economy? Firstly, we reduce the burden on companies, in particular to boost job creation and enable new investments. This measure, in turn, can strengthen the competitiveness of our companies, as we have done through the index jump. Secondly, we reduce the burden on people who work so that work becomes more attractive. Purchasing power increases and the difference between working and not working changes substantially. That is the purpose of this measure. Less gross wage costs and more net in the pocket, how simple can it be? In other words, it is simple, but it is also extremely efficient. That is the volume effect we want to achieve. What do we do for employers? The measures are well known. I will not quote all of them, but I am thinking of continuing to finance the Competitiveness Pact, EUR 960 million for a linear reduction in the burden on businesses, the reduction in patronial contributions from 33% to 25%. Who'd have thought we'd live to see that, Patrick? That's good for 620 million next year. There is wage moderation with the index jump, accounting for 2.7 billion, which will strengthen the competitiveness of our companies, but also their health, and we support night and shift work. Anyone who has any knowledge of the operation and competitiveness of our automotive and petrochemical industries knows that these are crucial measures to be able to say from Antwerp tomorrow in Ludwigshafen that we are competitive with our German friends.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip087x.u75	Mr Van Mechelen, I hear you welcome all the measures taken by the government. You briefly referred to the fight against tax fraud. Can you tell me whether the Open Vld Group agrees with the content of Mr. Van Overtveldt in the fight against tax fraud? Does your group agree with all the ambitious points put forward by the Minister of Finance in his note?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip087x.u76	Mr Laaouej, if you had listened carefully, you would have heard that I have just raised one major point of concern in that note, namely the importance my group attaches to the position of taxpayers. It's a story of rights and duties. How far can one go to achieve certain things? The same question also arises today in the intelligence services. Who can be bugged? This question will also be returned to us in search of our homes today. Were we indeed eight minutes late because we were not allowed to perform earlier and therefore missed the bird? I would say that the Minister's policy letter has the merit of at least being very clear. The counterweight that we want to offer in the discussion, as Mr Van Cauter has already done in committee, is that we also call for attention to be paid to the legal status of taxpayers, who have rights and who should not be treated as if they were approached by the court or as if an interview was being conducted under the orders of an investigating judge. In this respect, let us use the check and balances to achieve results. That's the answer. Colleagues, our party is particularly pleased that the government measures also pay particular attention to our SMEs and the self-employed. I think we may not recognise the measure enough, but the fact that they will no longer pay patronial contributions on the first employee, which makes the first employee a golden boy or golden girl, and that there is a reduction in the burden on the second to sixth recruitment, will, in my view, have a huge effect, especially for those who are walking on the gums of work today and can use a stool. That is what this tax incentive is for. It is also important that we are talking about almost EUR 4.5 billion in cost reductions in one year. Nicely taken, I'd say. With this we are cycling a major gap close to the pay gap that we had built up with our neighbouring countries. Very often I have had conversations with people like Wouter The Spirit of BASF. If he was called up in Ludwigshafen, the numbers were there. Let us therefore hope that this measure will restore a balance in our competitive position. At that time, our productivity can make the difference to attract investment back in our country. In short, it is indeed an historic reform, especially because it represents a break in the trend. I have just had a debate on the effects of measures for the lowest wages or linear measures. I was once again in the discussion 20 years ago with Professor Paul De Grauwe, who explained to me that, of course, labour elasticity is the greatest when dealing with the small group of low incomes. However, there is nothing better than to reduce the overall burden, thereby increasing competitiveness, creating new jobs and purchasing power and re-launching the economic engine. Of course, that costs a lot more money. That is the 7.2 billion that is being put on the table today. The government has managed to create a sustainable environment with its measures to attract new investments and additional labour force and to boost growth and the job engine. I agree with other groups that it is delivery time, including for our companies. One cannot continue to complain that it is not possible to work and undertake in our country. Reduce patronage, reduce labour costs, increase purchasing power. We are trying to move towards flexible working mechanisms. It is up to them now to fill it out and not to say again that it can do even better. It can always be better, but the framework for starting work has been created. It is also important, ladies and gentlemen, that, in addition to measures for our entrepreneurs and SMEs, for the first time, the workers also participate fully in the measures. The figures have already been mentioned a few times in the Minister's replies. We are investing EUR 450 million in the deduction of flat-rate professional costs, we are removing the 30% share of personal income tax, which means EUR 850 million in the long term, we are broadening the share of 40%, we are strengthening the tax and social work bonus, we are improving the purchasing power of the self-employed and we are making social corrections through the full benefit of the welfare envelope, which amounts to EUR 1.2 billion. With all these purchasing power measures, amounting to 2.7 billion, we can ultimately increase net wages and keep people more money in their pockets. This will ultimately allow for an economic revival. Colleagues, the figures show by their size and exceptionalness that this is an important moment in our political and economic history. 2016 will be the grand-cru year for our economy and businesses. It is a huge injection of oxygen for companies but also for employees. The proof of the pudding is in the Eating. As I said in committee, I share that story. It always will be. I just told you, none of us have a glass ball. The proverb is always the same, the glass can be half full or half empty. To what extent do we support the measures, to what extent do we have that belief in the future, to what extent can we move forward? I believe that the latest reports that are coming out are promising. We received good points yesterday from the IMF for what is on the table today. They speak of a change, a change and, ultimately, a breakthrough in dealing with our problems. This is about pensions, but it is the same with this tax reform. I believe more than anyone that this can work as an accelerator. The growth of our economy is set at 1.3 % to 1.7 %. That remains modest, they are not growth rates of 3 % or 4 %. However, when I say that these figures have not yet taken into account the effective application of the index jump and the results of the second tax shift, this suggests that this growth could be higher than what we are proposing today. Well, then perhaps we can agree that this extra growth can be used mainly to relieve our public debt in part. Domestic consumption is also rising by 1.9 %. That confidence is there. The available household income rises by 1.1 % this year and by 0.5 % next year. I believe that these are very hopeful figures. If one then finds that exports are also rising by 4.6 % and business investment by 4%, then I think that the National Bank's forecast that this tax shift and the policy that is being pursued today are creating new jobs is very important. The tax shift provides 64 000 new jobs and, with natural growth, it reaches a total of 115 000. Importantly, these are jobs in the private sector, not in the government. It is also important that companies already indicate in surveys that they are planning recruitment. The news that Nike wants to create 500 extra jobs in Ham is encouraging. I'm just finishing up. Is the work done now? It's almost Christmas 2015. Can we, in a manner of speaking, let things run their course from now on? I'm afraid not. The tax shift and the other reforms on taxation and pensions will strengthen our economy, but we are far from achieving the promised budgetary balance. There is still a lot of work to be done. It is therefore very important, as several colleagues have said and as the committee can agree, that we can ultimately monitor closely the achievement of this budgetary objective, Madam Minister. Everyone's job, I've learned: the monitoring committee works for the government. However, I think that we should consider at what point in time, on the basis of figures from the Monitoring Committee and forecasts from the National Bank and the Planning Bureau, you may be able to tell the committee whether we are on schedule. The worst thing that could happen to us is that we should ultimately solve the budget path, and that cannot be the intention.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip087x.u77	Mr. President, what Mr. Van Mechelen has just said to the rostrum is not a surprise, as he has already said in the Finance Committee. After the MR, the Open Vld is also requesting monitoring of tax revenue estimates, changes in certain expenditure items and changes in macroeconomic parameters. Perhaps it would be time to know whether, on the government's side, we agreed to go in that direction. I have the impression that the Chairman of the Committee on Finance is not particularly opposed to this. Can we agree on a regular meeting in the Finance Committee for this monitoring, which is called for by both the MR and the Open Vld, as well as the PS Group.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip087x.u78	Colleague, I would like to answer that very clearly and quickly. A budget is budgeting, a budget is estimates, a budget is forecasting to see if the objectives are being achieved. An account is ultimately the result of the implementation of that budget. We have here in the Chamber and in the federal government a system in which a fairly large period lies between one and the other. That's what I think. That is why I would like to propose that we consider in a workable formula how, for example, we can test after six months, at a committee meeting at the beginning of September, what the first six months of the year were, whether we have achieved the figures, whether we are on the right track or whether we need to adjust. The worst thing that can happen to us is that we let things go and we have to find out too late that there are problems. Madam Minister and Minister, I assume that there are no problems. Ladies and gentlemen, we have already talked a great deal about figures, and I think it is important that the government continues its reform agenda over the next few years and months. Important work has been done, but the work is not finished at all. Yes, we have dealt with too high wage costs. Yeah, we're gonna make sure everyone stays at work longer. But I think, ladies and gentlemen, that there are still a lot of shipyards that the government must urgently address, with the emphasis on urgency. In particular, my group is thinking about labour market reforms. I have the impression that we're a little bit on the spot, we're a little surplaced. We have had a very interesting debate in this Chamber on Thursday about the role of everyone in the social dialogue, but we are getting to the point where the results of all this consultation are desirable. Just yesterday, the IMF again gave a clear indication that our country still has a much too rigid labour market. We must dare to read everything in that report. In other words, working is still too difficult. The same report also states that this just makes it very difficult for people with low education or other origins to enter our labour market. The fact that we can create opportunities there by intervening does not mean that we must turn our achievements into reality. For example, if I see that a breakthrough in facilitating e-commerce is not going to happen in our country, I ask you, fellow Members, where we are getting the guts to give 8 000 jobs and more than a billion sales to our northern neighbours. Mr Dewael lives in Tongeren, near Maastricht. I live in Kapellen, on the border with Woensdrecht, Breda and Bergen-op-Zoom. Well, the e-commerce companies are just over our border and there's not a day or weekend going by or the Dutch mail drives through my neighborhood to beg generous packages. Where do we get the guts that we don't want to fill out these kinds of jobs ourselves, but give a gift to our friendly neighbours in the north? In other words, ladies and gentlemen, there is still a lot of work to be done. I believe that a measure such as the flexi-jobs in the hospitality industry is very important. This must be evaluated, but we must also be open to it and consider whether this measure could be extended to other sectors without distorting the market. I am also thinking of modernising working time and labour law, looking at opening hours, combating discrimination in the labour market, systems to enable workable work, lifelong learning. In short, much remains to be done. Maybe 2016 could be the year of labour market reforms in our country. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that this is not only important for our companies. I believe that greater flexibility is also required by 21st century citizens to better reconcile work and family life, as well as their needs and rhythm. In other words, flexibility is not a magic tool, but it is a means of increasing opportunities for companies and workers. It is therefore no coincidence that the IMF is today proposing that just the vulnerable groups that are excluded from the labour market should be integrated into the labour market. I will conclude, Mr President. The budget and the tax shift, which are on the table here, are all about economic relance and stimulating job creation and purchasing power by reducing costs. You will therefore not be surprised that our Liberal Group can only welcome this policy. We will follow up the budget. We will ensure that we can measure how our economy responds to the measures. You will not be surprised, Madam Minister, that our entire group will be very enthusiastic about approving the budget.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip087x.u79	Colleagues, as agreed, we are interrupting our work, which will resume at 2.15 p.m. with Mrs Temmerman's intervention. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Wednesday, 16 December 2015, at 2.15 p.m. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Wednesday 16 December 2015 at 2.15 p.m.
