ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic158x.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, I will ask you for your attention during the questions and answers and to respect the time limits.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic158x.u2	Madam Minister, in various media, we have read that at the end of January 2015, the French Parliament adopted a law that provides for austerity in the electromagnetic emissions of smartphones, mobile phones and other wireless devices. This law specifically prohibits the broadcasting of Wi-Fi radiation to nurseries and requires schools to comply with stricter guidelines. Local politicians also occasionally call for similar legislation to be introduced in our country. A lot has been written about the dangers of electromagnetic radiation in scientific literature, not only about mobile phones but also about high voltage masts in the past. In 2009, the Flemish Parliament requested an overview of all international studies on the subject by means of a resolution. The report concluded that, within current standards, there is no effective evidence that electromagnetic radiation would be harmful to humans. Specifically about the use of Wi-Fi, which we encounter more and more often in hotels, airports and everywhere in public life, I have a number of questions. First of all, has it been proven to you that electromagnetic radiation can be dangerous for young children? If so, what measures will you take? If not, do you believe that such coverage would cause unnecessary panic? Secondly, are there certain precautions for the use of mobile phones and Wi-Fi that would be better respected? It's about information about low cell value mobile phones, earrings and not keeping the device too close to the ear. Thirdly, research into the effect of electromagnetic radiation is young, especially in the area of Wi-Fi. Do you share the view that additional studies would be necessary to consider possible negative long-term effects, non-thermal effects and the existence of electro-hypersensitivity in humans? Are there any other issues that you might like to have investigated? What means would you use to do that? Fourthly, how do you work with the regions on the subject?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic158x.u3	Madam President, my question fits in perfectly with that. In France, especially near schools and crèches, strict guidelines on Wi-Fi and wireless devices do indeed apply. In Ghent, some daycare centres and kindergarten have also taken protective measures on their own initiative. There is no scientific consensus on the possible harmful effects. So we may need more research. In any case, we have an example of a neighbouring country, France, which is taking the lead. Madam Minister, my questions are almost identical to those of my colleague. Firstly, will you follow France's example and finance further research into the impact on the health of children and adults, whether or not together with the Länder? Secondly, are you prepared to discuss the possible harmful effects here in our committee? We ourselves have tabled a resolution on electro-hypersensitivity. So it might be useful to have a joint debate on this, possibly with someone from your cabinet. Finally, by analogy with France, do you intend to make recommendations and take action in Belgium as well? What do you think of a reporting obligation, Wi-Fi-free zones or a ban on advertising for children?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic158x.u4	Mr Vermeulen and Mrs Dedry, the harmfulness of electromagnetic radiation for younger children has indeed not been proven today. Almost all national and international expert groups that have looked into the issue assume that there is no cause for concern, either in general or in terms of use in schools. The exposure levels are significantly lower than the international and Belgian standards, although regional standards. However, there are no or insufficient long-term studies on the use of Wi-Fi in the presence of children. There are already studies on other sources of radio frequency, which are generally reassuring. Apart from that, one may wonder whether wifi in nursery is really necessary. That is why the High Health Council's advice on this matter is based on the as low as really feasible principle, i.e. limiting exposure as much as technically feasible and with a feasible effort. In addition, the advice of the High Health Council does not recommend using a mobile phone in places with poor coverage or poor reception, such as in a lift cage, a moving train or a car on a highway. Research is still needed in several areas, including the long-term effects, the possible mechanisms of action and the possible electrosensitivity, even if only because of the existence of a certain concern for public opinion. This means that a substantial budget should be made available for this purpose. Like many topics in Belgium, this is also a shared competence. For example, the standards for mobile towers fall within the competence of the Regions, the standards for mobile devices and equipment are a federal competence and the standards for marketing these products fall within the competence of Economic Affairs, Mr Peeters. The High Health Council takes all this into account in its opinions and ensures that they are delivered to all relevant authorities.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic158x.u5	Madam Minister, first of all I am pleased that there is still no evidence that electromagnetic radiation is harmful to young children. There is therefore no cause for concern at the moment. However, I read that the French Parliament has passed a law that has prohibited a number of matters. Perhaps Parliament has done this purely ideologically. That might be possible, but it may also be that more has been done from a cautious point of view. Indeed, there is still some concern in public opinion, despite the widespread use of Wi-Fi. You say that research will be needed in the future, especially with regard to the long-term effects, but you will not take initiatives in this direction yourself. I assume you will wait and see what investigations are taking place at international level. That will be similar to what could happen in Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic158x.u6	I will not repeat what Mr Vermeulen said in his reply. I asked another question, namely whether you would agree that a representative of your cabinet should be present in committee when we are discussing such a resolution. That seems to me to be a great step forward.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic158x.u7	It's customary. In the previous explanations, as far as possible, someone with the necessary expertise was also delegated.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic158x.u8	In any event, we will ensure that we invite the firm when we discuss health-related bills.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic158x.u9	Minister, there was a whole thing about this in your policy brief. You indicate that the legal framework for research with human body material (biobanks), the production of medicines for innovative therapies, research and production of biotechnological medicines and vaccines in general will be further adapted and improved in accordance with the rules on privacy and ethics and in consultation with the representative of the companies concerned, in order to be able to continue to stimulate the research and production of such medicines and vaccines in Belgium. What are you doing in the process of adapting and improving the legal framework for the production of medicines for innovative therapies? Do you intend to amend the Law of 19 December 2008 on the procurement and use of human body material for human medical applications or for scientific research with regard to the manufacture of medicines for innovative allogeneic therapies? Have you ever met with the firms concerned and the academic community about changes to the current legislation? This is an extremely important subject. It has numerous and enormous health impacts for potentially affected patients.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic158x.u10	Mrs Fonck, in fact, the legal framework for advanced therapy medicinal products is contained in a European regulation. In principle, these medicinal products must obtain a marketing authorisation at European level. However, in Belgium advanced therapy medicinal products may, on an ad hoc basis and on an individual medical prescription, be exempted from this central marketing authorisation requirement. Within this specific framework, national legislation is required. A draft royal decree is being finalized. Both representatives of the academic hospital world and those of the biotechnology sector are currently consulted with a view to reaching a framework for practice in the near future. In October 2014, the Higher Council of Health issued an opinion on a bill dealing with this subject. Discussions are still under way with the biotechnology sector. This sector is committed to providing me with proposals. I meet regularly with all relevant actors on this subject. Several meetings with the biotechnology sector and the academic world have already taken place on this subject and further meetings are planned.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic158x.u11	Mr President, Madam Minister, I plead here that the matter can progress. I have tabled a bill that we can discuss and that could serve as a basis for work. Belgium has always played a pioneering role in research and development and can maintain this leadership at European level or even more broadly. Given the size of our country, we can be proud of this level of research and innovation, especially since progress can be made while ensuring quality and safety standards, which are key elements that cannot be overlooked. My text is intended to be constructive and can be supported by anyone who wants to move the issue forward in relation to the sector but above all in relation to research, development and patient issues. This would allow us to make significant progress, as Belgium has always been at the forefront in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic158x.u12	Madam President, Minister, I have already asked you about e-cigarettes in February 2015. At the time, I was very surprised to hear you say that you had seen many people with electronic cigarettes in France. You added that we could ban electronic cigarettes, but you asked what would happen if the consumers of this cigarette bought them abroad and walked around Belgium with the said cigarette by hand. "We can ban them," you said, "but do we have the means to act against these people?" In view of your answer, I argued that electronic cigarettes should be considered a tobacco product within the meaning of the Act of 22 December 2009. Since then, I have done some research and discovered that, on the Public Health FPS site, it is stated that "it is important to know that electronic cigarettes are covered by the smoking ban, whether or not they contain tobacco. Seeing someone smoking can indeed encourage smoking." I am of course totally in agreement with the FPS Public Health. Madam Minister, in view of the above, I would like you to answer clearly the following questions: Is electronic cigarettes actually considered, in accordance with the Act of 22 December 2009, to be a tobacco product or a similar product? In doing so, is it subject to the same prohibitions as traditional cigarettes? I am thinking in particular of the ban on smoking in closed places accessible to the public. If that is the case, I can only congratulate myself. But given the discord between your remarks and what appears on the Public Health FPS website, I wanted to ask you about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic158x.u13	Mrs. Fonck, you know that I said there were shops where you could buy them as well as you could walk around on the street with them. The legislation provides for the prohibition of smoking cigarettes in public places. This concerns tobacco and similar products. Remember, three or four years ago, we banned one of our colleagues from smoking an empty pipe in the Public Health Committee! At that time I chaired the commission; the current chair was present. One of our colleagues – we know who it is – came with an empty pipe; I then told her, and Mrs Gerkens, that it was something he could not do, which triggered a dispute. In the case we are talking about, this is an application of the legislation that was confirmed by the Louvain Correctional Court. In its judgement, the court sentenced a café for the use of an electronic water pipe in its drinking space. The Tobacco and Alcohol control department has already pinned a dozen electronic cigarette smokers in public places. Each time, a warning was sent to the person concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic158x.u14	Minister, thank you very much for that answer. The legislation is very clear. Electronic cigarettes are a tobacco-like product and are therefore subject to the same prohibitions. I would like to highlight what the Public Health FPS indicates and what I think is important. This prohibition applies to electronic cigarettes, whether or not they contain tobacco. In practice, electronic cigarettes may also contain flavours; they are potentially toxic and their effects are not benign.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic158x.u15	At the time, the incident you spoke of, Madam Minister, had earned me a fine headline in the press, which was: "Gerkens refuses a pipe to...". It happened in this room, I still remember!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic158x.u16	Madam President, Madam Minister, my question has come to light in my region in a sad way. Some home care patients with DDAs (Aide & Care à Domicile) are now facing a rather worrying problem. Indeed, DDAs cannot continue to help patients feed if they contract dysphagia or "false roads". Only a person with a nursing degree can then act. For patients, this often leads to institutionalization despite efforts to stay at home. I was particularly concerned about a patient with myopathy. He was deprived of home help because he was thought to also suffer from dysphagia. The ASD service, which had been following him for twenty-five years, had therefore taken the decision not to take over him. I was questioned by a letter dated 12 February 2015 signed by the Director of the Department of Daily Life Assistance, the Director General and the Chairman of the Board of Directors of Christian Mutualities. In this letter, it is mentioned that the patient in question could no longer be assisted at home because, I quote, "your actions of denigration of our service and its workers, especially through the press and social networks, have caused a real breach of confidence in the relationship of aid, an essential condition in the work that is ours". Mutuality therefore has the right, on the basis of non-medical and subjective criteria, to refuse home help to a patient who has been followed for 25 years. Minister, is it reasonable for home help to stop sometimes after many years because of problems of dysphagia or "false roads"? What are the solutions for patients in such a case? Is institutionalization, socially and financially more difficult, really the only solution? What training could we provide to DSA personnel so that they can continue to follow patients with dysphagia or "false roads"? Does a mutuality have the right to withdraw the assistance provided to a patient for ages on the basis of non-medical and subjective criteria?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic158x.u17	Ms Jadin, the tasks that a home caregiver can perform are precisely defined in the Royal Decree of 12 January 2006 setting out the nursing activities that can be carried out by caregivers and the conditions under which they can carry out these tasks. According to Article 2 of the same Order, the DSA may not provide food aid and oral hydration to the patient or resident, with the exception of cases of probe feeding and swallowing disorders. It goes without saying that I do not know in detail the particular case that you are referring to. However, although the patient does not suffer from dysphagia, it is known that some myopathic conditions may interfere with swallowing. The caregiver will, therefore, have to let a nurse do this. However, he or she will be able to continue with other care by helping the patient wash and dress. I am also thinking of other activities such as the replacement of a collection pocket, in case of cured colostomy, aid in the ingestion of medicines, prevention of escarres, etc. If the DSA can no longer perform the tasks that have been delegated, because the care required becomes too complicated to administer or there are dangers of infection, a home nurse can handle it. Therefore, the situation does not necessarily involve intramural care or hospitalization. I say it with great respect for caregivers, but every profession has its limits. It is also a question of training. You know that the treatment of dysphagia is delicate, given the dangers to the patient. DSOs must be protected from certain difficult tasks.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic158x.u18	Minister, thank you for that clarification. Nevertheless, I will send you the file of the person in question, because I realize that you have not been informed of all the elements. Maybe I'll come back to you later.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic158x.u19	I've already answered, but the law is the law. I understand the sensitivity and all the emotions that accompany each case and I have no doubt that some caregivers are even able to perform this type of service. That's not the point. But the law remains the law and it has been made taking into account the training provided in general and the dangers for patients. This is how the tasks are divided. Some of them will be performed by a home nurse, while others require a doctor. Of course, some very capable nurses, with a lot of experience, could perform these tasks, but when a doctor is required, the law really has to be respected.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic158x.u20	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic158x.u21	In the discussions that have been announced concerning the reform of certain nomenclatures, a different division of labour between professionals might be possible. But this is another mechanism in connection with ad hoc training.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic158x.u22	It's possible, I'm not saying otherwise. Of course, training will have to be provided in this case.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic158x.u23	Madam President, Minister, it is my responsibility that many professionals who use the eHealth platform are frequently confronted with problems related to the non-availability of the platform, while developers are faced not only with a lack of documentation of eHealth sources, which are essential for them to develop applications that will allow doctors to connect to them, but also with an online help service and a low-quality hotline. In addition, with respect to Recip-e, a courier service through which outpatient prescriptions of drugs, physiotherapy and nursing are transmitted from the prescriber to the executor (pharmacist, kine or nurse) chosen by the patient, several maintenance interventions took place in the middle of the day between 9:00 a.m. and 10:00 a.m. (in particular on March 12 and 16, 2015), times during which Recip-e services were not available. Pharmacists don't like it very much, and we understand them because it puts everyone in trouble. Minister, are you aware of these problems? Are you aware of the lack of quality of eHealth's services to both users and developers who create apps? What measures do you intend to take to improve the quality of these services? Is it not time to conduct an external audit to assess the quality of services, documentation and eHealth hotline accessible not only to users but also to developers? Do you not think that maintenance interventions for Recip-e should be planned at times when the consequences for pharmacists would be as limited as possible, that is, very early in the morning or late in the evening? The need for this connection is essential for patients and for the executioners of prescriptions (pharmacians, kines, nurses).
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic158x.u24	Mrs Fonck, I have read about the recent performance problems that occurred on Thursday 12 March between 10:00 a.m. and 12:00 p.m. with the online services using the eHealth platform's basic service. They occurred after a small technical adaptation made indispensable and urgent by external circumstances. A manual configuration error occurred in a script. This error is exceptional and has never occurred before. In the meantime, steps have been taken to minimize the risk of such an incident in the future. You say it was March 16, but according to my information, it was Friday, 13. Between 9:20 a.m. and 10:30 a.m., as a result of a sharp increase in use and the adaptation of the previous day, performance problems again occurred. The additional capacity was immediately brought in, restoring the expected level of performance to the basic service of the eHealth platform. As a result, no maintenance activities were planned. On Monday, March 16, I was told that there were no problems. No maintenance activities were planned either. Contrary to what you say, at present Recip-e is not yet used by physiotherapists and nurses but only by pharmacists. I would like to point out that there is no structural lack of quality in the services offered by the eHealth platform. Two major releases and four smaller releases are set annually. They are planned and communicated one year in advance and a risk analysis is systematically carried out to be able to determine the potential impact. Release always takes place on a Sunday. In any case, from now on, it will always be scrupulously ensured that the four smaller annual releases also take place outside normal office hours – you are right to ask – during weekends or days off, to avoid problems when there are not enough staff. In addition, to avoid human errors in the configuration, an additional check will be performed as a quality control. The eHealth Platform Management Committee has approved strict level agreements for the availability and performance of basic services. For example, a 99.5% availability rate was assumed for all eHealth e-services.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic158x.u25	In fact, an availability rate of 99.8% was achieved in 2015 for all services. All eHealth platform online services must also respond in 98% of cases within a maximum of one second, which occurred de facto in 99.8% of cases in 2015. We can see that established standards have been consistently met in recent years. A permanent monitoring system has been developed. The eHealth platform also has an internal audit function with reporting to the Management Committee. There is no indication that an additional external audit would be required. You also know that external audits are not free of charge. I would like to emphasize that the services offered are increasingly being used. For example, insurability was the subject of nearly 10 million requests in February through the eHealth platform and more than 3 million messages have already been sent by the eHealth box. This increases exponentially. I asked the eHealth platform to examine, in consultation with the partners concerned, the necessary alternative scenarios if unavailability or performance problems occurred in case of even more frequent use. The maintenance of Recip-e is not the responsibility of the eHealth platform but of the ASBL Recip-e.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic158x.u26	Minister, thank you for your answers. As far as Recip-e is concerned, we agree. Maintenance operations must be carried out at times when it penalizes as few people as possible, whether pharmacists in this case or patients. As for eHealth, you say there's no problem. I note, however, that several doctors have had problems, unfortunately at their expense, using MyCareNet online, with regular eHealth crashes. Frankly, it's a problem! I don't know what method is used, and how, to determine if there is such a strong availability. Reactions from several caregivers all go in the same direction and a more important non-availability message is given by the platform since March 2015, with error messages displayed in MediMail, etc. My third comment is very much in that sense. You don't want to hear about an audit. Either, I hear. However, spending is growing, and it must be recognized that we have already spent a large budget. I think the performance requirements must be absolute. When there is a gap between the availability rate of the platform you give me and what is happening on the user side, there is obviously a problem. I find it simply logical to set performance requirements for the benefit of all users. I would like to draw your attention to this point very strongly.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic158x.u27	Question No 3072 by Mrs Maya Detiège is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic158x.u28	Madam Minister, the subject is regularly raised in the topical debate by looking at the margins of euthanasia legislation, which can and cannot be. In this context, serenity and caution are always essential, as it is about life and death. We are therefore surprised that a doctor, to name him Marc Cosyns, is still looking for the margins of euthanasia legislation. As a form of opposition to the current legal regime, he states that he will no longer indicate when he is performing euthanasia. However, there is a legal obligation to declare, the formal requirements of which are laid down in Articles 5, 7 and 8 of the 2002 Law. However, Dr. Cosyns argues that he acts within the Belgian patient law that allows him to undertake death counseling with people who are incurable ill. I therefore have a few questions for clarification. Firstly, is the statement by Mr Cosyns that, within Belgian patient legislation, he is entitled to do death insurance for incurable patients legally valid? Is there, after all, no clear distinction between death guidance for incurable sick people and the execution of euthanasia? Secondly, could there be disciplinary action in response to Mr Cosyns' statements, because as a form of opposition to existing Belgian legislation, he renounces his legal obligations as laid down in the above-mentioned articles? In other words, what measures can be linked to euthanasia legislation, which is still an exception to Belgian criminal law today?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic158x.u29	Mrs Van Hoof, thank you for your question. The Federal Audit and Evaluation Committee on Euthanasia Legislation discusses the issue in its 2012 report. The Committee has established that the declaration documents rarely indicate euthanasia by administration of morphine, whether or not combined with other means. Since high doses of morphine are often administered during the last phase of life to alleviate the patient's suffering, the Committee assumes that the absence of the declaration in those cases is due to the fact that the doctors consider this procedure to be pain treatment and not euthanasia, even if it may have caused the patient to die earlier than would otherwise have been the case. In that case, it would be effective what they call a normal medical course. I would like to add that Article 11a of the Law on Patients' Rights grants everyone the right to receive adapted health care so that pain is prevented, attention is paid to it, which is evaluated and taken into account, treated and softened. However, the Committee also stresses that the administration of high doses of morphine and sedatives is not justified when it is not necessary to alleviate the patient's suffering, but at the patient's request to end his life, and that it is euthanasia in the legal sense of the word. It is subject to the legal conditions and procedures, including the obligation to make a declaration. In short, if the doctor acts for the purpose of deliberately ending the patient's life, he applies euthanasia and must comply with all the provisions of the law of 28 May on euthanasia. To the personal statements of one person on TV and in the press I have no comment to add. That goes without saying.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic158x.u30	Madam Secretary, it is striking that the federal evaluation committee has not yet sued a single case. We should therefore be able to question the role she plays. The narrow border between palliative sedation and euthanasia is, of course, a difficult one, on which regular discussions arise, but that does not alter the fact that legislation is still the law and that everyone has to abide by it. When people make such statements about it, control of the federal evaluation committee is put at risk even more than is the case today. It really must be avoided that euthanasia is considered a patient's right, which it is absolutely not today. One has the right to ask for it, but one does not always have the right to have it. The doctor still has the right to refuse them if he cannot perform euthanasia in accordance with his conscience. In short, those statements were unfortunate. It's like someone says that he drives through the red light every day as a form of resistance, while everyone is looking at it and wondering what to do now. I have this feeling when we talk about the subject: no one intervenes. The monitoring and evaluation as developed in the Netherlands are much stronger and therefore much more credible. We're afraid of cold water when we need to intervene. I regret that such statements go unpunished.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic158x.u31	You know that the law in this area, euphemistically speaking, was difficult to achieve: it was a compromise. I assume she can be fine tuned or improved. This is open to a parliamentary initiative; nothing was included in the coalition agreement. On the other hand, we cannot in all serenity prevent some populist statements from being made, preferably in the media. This is without prejudice to the fact that every physician, every other paramedic or nurse who takes care of a dying or severely ill person makes the necessary considerations and usually acts according to the law. No one becomes a doctor with the idea that the premature end of life is an end in itself. However, in such a delicate discussion, it is not possible to prevent people from interfering in the debate in order to profile themselves. It's all over the place. Also in the ecclesiastical government there are those who feel called to make statements about this. I suggest we get up there. If the debate on this is reopened in the Chamber, then I am open to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic158x.u32	Question No 3170 by Mrs Lanjri is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic158x.u33	Minister, this 7th March, in Prague, the International Coalition of Patients Using Cannabis for Medical Purposes was launched on the sidelines of the conference "Medical Cannabis and Cannabinoids: Legislation, Research and Clinical Practices". Many countries and associations have participated. The goal of this coalition is to provide safe and legal access to medical cannabis worldwide. For your part, you have recently decided to pave the way for medical cannabis, which is a step forward for our country. Just as France did at the beginning of 2014, there is a question of allowing the delivery in pharmacy of Sativex, a medicine containing cannabis. You have recently stated that the Federal Agency for Drugs and Health Products is currently considering the advice of the Council of State on this issue. You also stated that the technical working group created by the General Drug Policy Unit did not address the issue of medical cannabis. Madam Minister, can you tell me how Belgium fits into the approach of the Prague Conference? What can you give us as additional information about this conference? As far as your decision to authorise cannabis for medical use in Belgium is concerned, can you tell me whether there are already opportunities to go further in this area and to study it? The use of cannabis for therapeutic purposes has been permitted for a number of years in other countries. This is particularly the case in some US states or the Netherlands. Other drugs than Sativex exist and studies continue to multiply on the subject. Moreover, in 2014, the World Health Organization conducted a review of scientific data on the medical uses of cannabis, suggesting that the UN Commission on Narcotic Drugs reconsider the classification of this plant and its psychotropic component as stupefying. Minister, the medical prescription of cannabis has been practiced elsewhere in some cases since the mid-1990s. How far back do we have from what has been done? What can we make certain progress today? What do you think of cannabis oil for cancer treatment?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic158x.u34	Madam President, my colleague, the conference of the International Medical Cannabis Patient Coalition to which you are referring resulted in a statement in which representatives called for it to be incorporated into the statement of the UN General Assembly on drugs scheduled for 2016. In this declaration, reference is made, inter alia, to the proven therapeutic virtues of cannabis and to the fact that the legislation of some countries is a factor blocking access to this therapeutic tool. The statement also highlights that everyone has the right to an acceptable standard of living for health and well-being. On this subject, I pay great attention to the human aspect while considering solutions based on available scientific evidence. In addition, care must be taken to ensure that the proposed measures cannot be abused. For this reason, preference should be given to authorized drugs such as Sativex, whose efficacy is proven and whose adverse reactions and possible interactions are well documented. The safety and quality of the finished product are also examined. However, I would like to point out that, given the composition of medical cannabis with a very complex chemical composition, it is difficult to predict all interactions and adverse effects. As far as cannabis oil is concerned, I do not at the moment have any information to enable me to comment on its effectiveness in the treatment of cancer. In my opinion, the Sativex meets all the conditions that had been set. Its scientific value in very specific cases has been proven. This refers to patients with multiple acute sclerosis with muscle spasms for which no other medication is effective. Since this medicinal product has been subject to very strict conditions and is highly documented, the green light has been given for its marketing. As far as other products are concerned, I remain very cautious.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic158x.u35	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. I recognize your concern to ensure not only progress but also the protection of consumers and patients in particular. It would be interesting to gather the experiences of the countries I mentioned, such as the Netherlands and some American states. I will come back to this matter later.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic158x.u36	Minister, according to the National Cancer Institute in France, a new type of cancer would be due to breast implants. That is why I have been interested in this. We already knew anaplastic lymphoma. But, according to the experts, we are talking about anaplastic lymphoma with large cells, associated with a breast implant. In Belgium, the number of people with anaplastic lymphoma did not increase significantly between 2004 (25 men, 12 women) and 2012 (26 men, 21 women). It is therefore difficult to establish a link with a phenomenon in breast implants. However, the Federal Agency for Medicinal Products and Health Products has decided to monitor the evolution of this phenomenon, notably through the European Group of Experts, in order to collect as much data as possible. Minister, can we confirm or not confirm this risk of cancer from breast implants? Are we going to warn all our fellow citizens concerned with this problem, as the National Medicines Safety Agency in France has done?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic158x.u37	Madam President, Minister, on March 4, the Institut national du cancer (INCa), in France, issued an opinion affirming the emergence of a new type of disease: large cell anaplastic lymphoma (LAGC) linked to a breast implant. In the world, 173 cases have been detected for the time being. It appears that in France, 18 cases of cancer of this type have appeared since 2011 (1 in 2011, 2 in 2012, 4 in 2013 and 11 between 2014 and 2015). One person died. INCa estimates that the risk of breast LAGC in women with breast implants appears to be 200 times higher than in the general female population. If this type of cancer remains rare and the French authorities have not yet advised the removal of prosthetics, it seems important to pay careful attention to this problem. In France, a committee of experts has already been set up to study the issue. A letter of information is also sent to physicians to ensure maximum prevention for patients. I therefore have the following questions for you, Madam Minister. Are there any cases of such cancer detected in Belgium? Is the issue being studied in Belgium? What is the opinion of the AFMPS and the Belgian medical community on this issue? Does the Cancer Foundation study the subject? Have you made contact with your French counterpart? I think it's Mrs. Touraine. As is the case in France, will preventive and information measures be put in place? Can a committee of different experts also be set up to move forward on the subject?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic158x.u38	Colleagues, large cell anaplastic lymphoma (LAGC) is a rare type of cancer, which is not located solely at the breast level. It can also develop anywhere in the body at the level of the lymph glands and at the systemic level. This cancer can affect both men and women. Since February 2015, the Federal Agency for Medicines and Health Products (AFMPS) has been working with the Cancer Registry Foundation to assess the possible impact of this problem in Belgium. The Cancer Registry Foundation has identified a total of 21 cases of LAGC cancer diagnosed in 2012; figures and data for 2011 and 2013 are being evaluated. The Federal Agency, in collaboration with the Cancer Registry Foundation, will investigate among its cases possible women carrying breast prostheses. As part of materialovigilance, AFMPS has never received notification of cases of LAGC related to the implantation of breast prostheses. In 2014, the French Health Authority, the ANSM, informed its European counterparts about the increase in this type of cancer diagnosed in women with breast prostheses in France. As a result of this information, an expert task force has been set up at European level to assess the potential link between anaplastic lymphoma and women with breast prostheses. Belgium participates in this working group. Following the discussions of the Task Force, and because it is a very rare cancer, we need to collaborate internationally in order to have sufficient data to be able to carry out a reliable statistical and scientific study, in order to decide on the next steps to be taken. A memorandum of understanding with other non-European countries, such as the United States, Canada and Australia, is being drafted. At present, no timing for the submission of findings has been defined. Once we have completed the data evaluation, we will be able to provide a more in-depth scientific opinion.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic158x.u39	Minister, thank you for the comprehensiveness of your answer. I understand why we must not act alone and in haste; and we must trust scientific research in this area. In fact, there was no time frame for the evaluation. We're waiting for the set-up. Perhaps it would have been interesting to know what the deadline might be. Anyway, thank you already.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic158x.u40	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. I appreciate, like Mrs Jadin, the fact that awareness exists, that you have set up an enlarged European coordination with the other Western countries. This is necessarily important because breast implants are used especially in Western countries. I understand that there is no time frame and I can understand that, but the establishment of this kind of institution of vigilance and research will probably help to detect problems more quickly and find solutions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic158x.u41	Only Mrs Van Hoof is present.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic158x.u42	Madam Secretary, I would like to ask you this question on the basis of an opinion from the High Health Council. Due to the increasing popularity of tattoos and permanent make-up appear in medical literature more and more cases of complications requiring medical intervention. This is reflected in the report of the Supreme Health Council published on 7 January 2015. The report highlights the complications of some products for the application of tattoos and permanent and semi-permanent make-up, in particular infections, allergies and an increased risk of cancer. In terms of hygiene and safety, the researchers have identified a number of shortcomings. For example, infringements of labelling, sterility of the inks and lack of customer records containing the documentation of materials used in the context of traceability have been identified. Although it is provided for in Article 7 of the 2005 Royal Decree, the follow-up is quite inadequate, according to the cited report. However, the health risk derivatives are not such as to be lightly mixed with the products, both in terms of their use and composition. The Council of Europe has already adopted a resolution on this subject on procedures and hygiene conditions. Some opinions were also formulated on the composition of tattoo inks used. The opinion of the Council of Europe was adopted by Belgium but was not transposed into a law and is therefore only applied and monitored to a limited extent. That is why I have a few questions for you, Madam Secretary. Are the cited report of the Supreme Health Council and the cited opinion of the Council of Europe a guide for you to review the existing Belgian legislation? If no, why not? If so, how do you wish to do so? What period can we expect to take steps within? One of the recommendations of the High Health Council is to update the negative list of unsafe products and contribute to the establishment of a positive list of safe products. What have you done with this recommendation and what else will you do with it?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic158x.u43	Thank you, Mrs Van Hoof, for your question. As you say, the placing of tattoos is regulated by the Royal Decree of 25 November 2005. The KB shall determine, inter alia, the conditions, composition and sterility to be met by these inks. This has also been confirmed by the Supreme Health Council. For the rest, quote the risk dressings of certain types of ink in terms of a possible canceral effect, allergies, hypersensitivity or toxicity. As in other countries, we are also aware of the potential problems that may be associated with the use of these inks. That is why a working group within the Supreme Health Council is involved in the analysis and drafting of a positive list containing only usable inks. The quality of the products used is, of course, also a topical aspect for the inspection of my administration. In 2014, 133 tattoo and piercing salons were checked. The three most common problems identified were exceeding the expiry date of not only the inks but also the needles, the lack of the document to be signed in duplicate by the customer and the lack of information in the waiting room and the tattoo room on the health risk derivatives. Moreover, the Royal Decree provides for the obligation for the tattoo artist to undergo training which attaches great importance to the sterility of the material, the products, the packaging and the labelling of the inks. The High Health Council calls for a broad awareness campaign on the disadvantages and potential risks associated with tattooing. The Royal Decree of 25 November 2005 relates only to informing the customer in the waiting rooms and the working rooms of the tattoo artist. We'll check that, but that's where it ends. The power to organise any awareness-raising campaigns in schools or in the media rests with the Communities. Nevertheless, I think it is a avoidable risk. If a tattoo is chosen, it must be applied in a safe and verifiable manner. We can think about that all kinds of things, but we must ensure that it does not pose an increased health risk to the people who want to have one. The work is therefore continuing and we will have to monitor it carefully. We know, after all, that many people are not sufficiently informed at the time when they are, possibly in a crazy mood, tattooed. This may lead to serious risks, if an infected needle is used or a product with toxic effects, let alone the fact that a potentially cancerogenic product may present major risks. We do the necessary checks in the salons.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic158x.u44	I thank you for following the advice of the High Health Council and its recommendations. It can indeed be seen in whose jurisdiction it all belongs. It even recommends limiting work permits over time and linking them to further training and monitoring. It is clear whether this belongs to you or to Minister Peeters. The same applies, for example, to solar banks, where there is now a problem of control. In terms of enforceability, we must guard the health of the people who apply it. I'm not a fan of this fashion phenomenon, but it resurfaces regularly, especially among young people. Then it is important to take this seriously. Also in Leuven, where I live, I see more and more tattoo shops pop up. The phenomenon will continue because some people are a fan of it, but we must continue to say that there are health risks, because people are totally unaware of it. As this falls within the competence of the Communities, consultations should be organised on this subject, since more and more young people are a fan of it, even if there is an age condition for tattooing.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic158x.u45	Madam Minister, donations of umbilical cord blood are increasing in Belgium and we can be happy about that. We know that in the public sector, the use and storage of stem cells is clearly regulated strictly. What worries health professionals today is that private banks are marketing and making stem cells a trade necessarily linked to an obligation to achieve results. We know, for example, that some companies work from our territory thanks to foreign approvals with purely speculative services and very little visibility on the future of cells. Minister, are we aware of the number of companies operating in Belgium in the stem cell sector through foreign licensing? How can we ensure the fate of stem cells in private companies?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic158x.u46	Mrs Jadin, I also refer to the answers to questions 103 and 1404 concerning stem cells and cord blood. It is indeed a recurring subject. To my knowledge, there is only one private company that stores cord blood in Belgium and it is CryoSafe. As I have already stated, all the body and human material - stem cells and cord blood included - taken in Belgium and intended for human medical application must pass through a bank of recognized human body material. Any bank of human body material is operated by a hospital in accordance with the provisions of the Act of 19 December 2008 concerning human body material. In addition, stem cells may also be involved in the manufacture of medicines. In this case, the pharmaceutical company must have the necessary certification which is only granted following the inspection of the services of the Federal Agency for Medicines and Health Products. The AFMPS is responsible for monitoring this sector and has in the past drawn up a report which has been transmitted to the Public Prosecutor's Office. I have instructed my services to review the case and ask about the status of the prosecution's work, but as you know, it takes a little time to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic158x.u47	This is the CryoSafe company. I also apologise to you, Minister, my question was tabled on March 19. This question is indeed recurring but thank you for taking the trouble to answer it and update your answer to this problem. Indeed, let us trust justice in the handling of this type of case.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic158x.u48	Mrs Jiroflée apologized.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic158x.u49	Madam Secretary, I will begin with good news. Belgium has relatively many organ donors compared to other countries. However, that does not mean that we no longer have a job, because there is still a shortage. A while ago, there was a case in the media. They come back every now and then. It was the story of Mr Mariën who actually went through Facebook himself to find possible organ donors. That is quite understandable in itself, but it also entails some dangers. The UZ Leuven has also pointed this out. After all, we never know whether there will be a request for a return service. The risk of possible commercialisation should also be excluded. On top of that, there is, of course, a waiting list with a certain order. Madam Secretary, I have a few questions for you. What is your position on such an own initiative to seek out potential organ donors if there is no direct link? Do you think there is a need for a clear framework to avoid this in the future? More broadly, in the context of the continuing shortage of donor bodies, do you envisage measures to prevent the growth of waiting lists?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic158x.u50	Mrs Van Peel, the law of 13 June 1986 makes a distinction between the removal of organs in a living person and the removal of organs after death. The removal of organs from a living person is only possible if the donor is at least 18 years old and agrees with it beforehand. Moreover, an organ in a living donor can only be removed in cooperation with one of the seven approved transplant centres. The Eurotransplant allocation organism must be informed rapidly of each procedure and of the compatibility and quality of the donor organ. Work is under way to shorten the waiting period for liver and kidney transplants. Firstly, there is the Beldonor.be national campaign that wants to sensitise people about organ donation. Secondly, there is the desire to further develop the transplant programme in live donors. Since 2014, liver or kidney transplant centres have been proposing more frequent procedures on living donors. Today, these donations are mainly made between members of the same family. Recently, however, there has also been a programme for the exchange of kidneys between non-compatible couples through so-called exchange transplantation. These exchanges take place only between Belgian transplant centres. We are examining how to extend this system to other countries. At the same time, we must indeed be vigilant in order to avoid a commercial trade in human organs. The law of 13 June 1986 obliges the doctor who intends to remove an organ to check whether the donor has taken his decision with discretion and with an altruistic aim which cannot be doubted. In addition, any removal in live persons should be the subject of a prior pluralistic consultation between doctors and other care providers who assess the potential donor's ability to agree to the removal of an organ. In a transplant center a study was completed that sums up what a kidney donation costs to a living donor. This study is currently being extended to all seven transplant centres in Belgium. The aim is to refine the procedure so that the living donor is treated as correctly as possible. My services regularly take note of private actions by patients or their families who have to wait a long time for an organ and search for a donor themselves. Depending on the actions involved, they will contact the people concerned, but it is difficult to get a look at the many initiatives that are being taken, inter alia, via the Internet. You are referring to a specific case. The Belgian Transplantation Council and the Belgian Transplantation Association are looking into this. They will soon issue an opinion on this matter. We await that advice. We're working on the waiting lists. It can't be that people go looking for themselves, with all the dangers of that, and maybe end up in crooked hands. I fully understand the emotions and circumstances that lead us to want to do this, but that does not mean that we can allow it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic158x.u51	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. I'm following your analysis. I understand this, too, but it points to an existing problem. I think we should be careful not to open the door to abuse. It doesn't make anyone any better. We have now only talked about living donors. The legislation in this area is very good. Everyone is a donor, unless they register as a non-donor. However, because too little talk is being made about this and because too little activity is being registered that one wants to be a donor, the family often decides at a very emotional moment, for which I fully understand, in other words, or dare not go on with doctors because this is sensitive to the family. I believe that the role of the general practitioner with a view to sensitisation can still be increased so that there is more active registration and more consultation in the family is possible on this subject. I know it's not obvious again, but of course it's for charity.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic158x.u52	I understand your legitimate question. After 25 years of practice, although I know little taboos to deal with a subject, I must say that I have given the explanation when asked, but I never felt the need to ask someone who asked me to heal him, if he had already thought of becoming a donor. That's a sensitive subject for people. It is only when they see in their environment that a life can be changed or saved by a donor body that they are consciously committed and willing to become a donor. It is and remains a very sensitive matter to raise, also as a general practitioner. I think, frankly, most people don't feel called for that. I agree that there should be no taboo about it and that there should be more awareness, but I would like to say that it is very sensitive to raise the issue as a general practitioner.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic158x.u53	Some municipalities had organized the distribution of information on election day, since it is a day when everyone comes. Has this affected the number of spontaneous donor reports?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic158x.u54	We asked for it, but it's hard to determine. Indeed, in the commune where a distribution had been organized, it could not be known whether the persons concerned lived there, or whether they had moved. This declaration must be made at the communal house of the municipality in which one lives. We need to get the number of cases but not the names, because we need to respect privacy. It is not always possible to collect all the information.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic158x.u55	The communes are a good place because that's where we have to go. This is one of the great challenges.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic158x.u56	Madam President, Minister, the Act of 3 April 1990 decriminalizes abortion when it meets the conditions set out in section 350 of the Criminal Code. Since 2003, an agreement between INAMI and the extra-hospital centres provides for the lump sum and overall payment of abortions by the mutuals to these extra-hospital centres. In practice, some women who apply for reimbursement to their mutuals receive a document asking them to justify their termination of pregnancy and thus determine whether it was "voluntary or medical", some mutuals going so far as to ask them for a full medical report. These mutuals rely on the insurance policy linking them to their clients, when it specifies that "intentional acts are excluded, unless the customer proves that this is a case of self-defence or justified rescue of persons or property. The intentional act within this clause shall be the act committed voluntarily and knowingly which causes reasonably foreseeable harm." If these intentional acts are not specified in the insurance policies of these mutuals, it is clear from the practice that these acts involve acts such as suicide but certainly not abortion. Such an exclusion of voluntary terminations of pregnancy from the mutual insurance policy seems all the more curious since there is no damage caused by abortion in the insured person's head, the only damage in this case being the invoice to be reimbursed by the mutual. However, insurance cannot be exempt from its own damage. In all cases, from the moment the client is in order of contributions, she must pay only one moderator ticket, the rest being borne by the mutual fund. As a result, Madam Minister, can a mutual fund thus consider abortion as a voluntary act, under the penalty of excluding it from an insurance policy whose cause of exclusion is expressed in very general terms? Is the staff of the mutuals sufficiently well informed about the content of the INAMI convention providing for the care of abortions?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic158x.u57	Madam President, Mrs Caprasse, as you point out in your question, medical-psychosocial accompaniment in cases of unwanted pregnancy in extra-hospital centres is the subject of an agreement between the INAMI Insurance Committee and the accompanying centres. This agreement provides for the reimbursement, through compulsory health care insurance, of the psychological and social reception of each beneficiary who is addressed to the extra-hospital centre. It also provides for reimbursement, where appropriate, of the termination of pregnancy performed in an outpatient setting and under good medical conditions in the recipient who has expressed the wish. A personal intervention of 1.73 euro and zero euro for beneficiaries of the increased intervention is applicable. The agreement explicitly states that no amount can be claimed from the patient. The Convention and its modalities are well known to the various mutuals and do not raise any problems on the ground. The difficulties you are experiencing are probably due to the fact that a number of terminations of pregnancy are not performed in the approved centres but in a hospital setting. The doctor who has carried out this procedure shall, in this case, take into account a non-specific benefit for an interruption of pregnancy for which he may, if he is not in agreement, claim fees in excess of the reimbursement rates fixed by the medical-mutualist agreement. If the patient then turns to the supplementary insurance of her mutual insurance or to private insurance to obtain reimbursement of these amounts not covered by the compulsory insurance, she receives a standardized form with a very general formula which may affect her, taking into account the circumstances. Ignoring why the patient asks for the procedure, the mutual is obliged to send her this form. The problem occurs when an unconventional physician performs surgery in a hospital setting. In approved extra-hospital centres, there is no problem. Supplementary insurance is governed by the Insurance Act of 4 April 2014, which falls within the competence of the Minister of Economy.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic158x.u58	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. I don't know all the details of the case that was submitted to me. However, according to the person concerned, this is a problem with the DKV which refuses any refund. I don't know where the medical procedure was performed. I will try to have a little more information, which may lead me to question other speakers. In any case, the feeling of injustice is profound. In addition, the questions asked to the patient are indiscreet. Indeed, when a woman aborts, it is never for pleasure. Do we have to reveal everything to his insurance? The question of the right to privacy arises.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic158x.u59	Insurance is subject to confidentiality to their customers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic158x.u60	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic158x.u61	It is always difficult to decide on a particular case.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic158x.u62	It is in such cases that we are contacted to ask a question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic158x.u63	I often get asked a question about a particular case. This is a person who has consulted a non-contracted physician in hospital and whose insurer does not agree to proceed with the reimbursement. This case is quite exceptional.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic158x.u64	Minister, on April 3, we celebrated the 25th anniversary of the law on the right to abortion. While this right remains effective in our country, it is important to ensure that all those in need have access to it under the best possible conditions. However, family planning centres have been drawing our attention for some time to the lack of general practitioners available to carry out abortions. Minister, do you have or are you going to have cadastral data on doctors practising in family planning centres and performing pregnancy interruptions? Are there more specific information about the centres? Is the shortage widespread in all centres or limited to certain regions? Is it possible to identify centres that lack doctors? The planners and centres that perform abortions also tell us that there are concerns about the training of future practitioners in this area and that this may be a reason for this lack of doctors who come to practice. Is IVG training given during studies or after, through continuing training? In your powers, apart from those of the Community in the organisation of university education, are there any measures that can be taken? I was asking you about the evaluation committee, but it is set up by Parliament. For the time being, we are having difficulty composing it, since last week's Conference of Presidents has informed us that it is very difficult to find sufficient numbers of candidates to meet the different categories of membership of this committee. Maybe we'll have to work on this. It depends on the parliament and not on you. However, how do you support the work of the committee? What about the 2013–14 report that we are likely to need to consider? It was due to be presented in Parliament since August 2014. That's something we haven't done yet.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic158x.u65	Madam Minister, this has also been evaluated on the Dutch-speaking side as a result of 25 years of abortion legislation in the sector. The umbrella of Dutch-speaking abortion centres also requires a revision of the law. First of all, the dome asks for the procedure to be simplified. At the moment, women have to fill out a form stating a reason and they have to choose between 30 options, while the reason is often simply an unwanted pregnancy. Secondly, the umbrella also proposes to set up an independent scientific committee, because there is some dissatisfaction with the existing evaluation committee, which would use rather dated figures. The latest figures appear to be from 2010-2011. Of course, our group is concerned about the efficiency of that committee. Madam Secretary, what are your options? Do you want to give the current abortion committee more force or do you want to replace that evaluation committee with a scientific independent committee? Secondly, what do you think is the role of that committee? How can you, as a government, ensure that the advice is sound and up-to-date and applied? Thirdly, what is your opinion on data collection? How much data should we have at our disposal? What should we all register in addition to normal identification data such as age, civil status and residence? Do you think that there should also be a reason and that these reasons should be recorded?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic158x.u66	Gerkens and Dedry, the mandate of the Evaluation Commission for the Act of 3 April 1990 on termination of pregnancy expired in November 2013. Several calls for nominations have been published by the Senate, but not enough candidates to complete the two lists required by law. Since the recent reform of the State, this competence has been transferred from the Senate to the House of Representatives. Because of the time that has elapsed since then, I understand your House's decision to relaunch the procedure. A call for applications was therefore published on 11 March, with a deadline of 10 April. I think few answers have been sent. Candidates who have already submitted a full file must re-introduce it, as the transfer of files from one meeting to another is legally impossible because of the principle of respect for privacy. It also applies to members of the Commission who wish to continue to serve on the Commission. They must re-enlist. For this reason, the data for 2012 and 2013 were not validated by the Commission and the report could not be finalised or transmitted. The Evaluation Commission does not have cadastral data or data on the training of doctors. As regards the search for doctors, I invite you to consult the Commission's 2012 report, which is available and classified as document No 532390/1. On page 69, the Commission notes that two centres reported being in search of physicians. In the meantime, one centre informed my administration that its activities had ceased. I'm sorry, but that's how it is. For the future of the evaluation committee, it is, of course, necessary for the effective and alternate members of the committee to be redesigned by the Chamber. Once the committee has been set up and it has produced its report, we will have the most recent data on the termination of pregnancy in our country. It is not only up to the committee to collect statistical data, but also to make recommendations on this basis to improve the legislative framework on abortion. In my opinion, what can be improved after 25 years, given the ripening of the spirits here and there, but not yet everywhere. I also said this at the meeting of the Abortion League. I am open to anything that can be improved. There is a demand for a debate on possible changes in the composition or role of the evaluation committee and on simplifying the registration procedure. After all, one may wonder whether it is necessary and relevant that all these data should be recorded in order to adjust the policy, but that is the case at the time. Do all data still need to be recorded? Is it really necessary, in a painful way, to choose from 13 reasons why abortion should be carried out? No one's gonna let you do that, of course. Since it is a very sensitive issue that affects many people, it is therefore up to the Chamber to hold a broad, serene and well-founded debate on it. However, I propose that we all call for candidates first. There will certainly be a new call, since there are not enough candidates. I know that there must be a certain affinity with the problem, but it is not possible for us in Parliament to register an evaluation committee, but that no candidates will be found for four or five years. Then the committee will cease to exist and no recommendations can be made. Then there may be a need for a new legislative initiative. Let us make some progress on that. I'm sorry about that. The law has been in existence for 25 years. I have followed it very closely, because I knew Lucienne Herman-Michielsens, one of the initiators, very well. I found her a very brave lady, who was unjustly attacked personally for this. Given the blessed age she had, we cannot suspect her that she had much self-interest. She lived in a working-class neighborhood in Ghent, where she was a doctor, and she was most certainly aware of the drama of people who had to go to unskilled people for an abortion. It is something that concerns me and I am sorry that we are no longer able to find committed people who, indeed for little money, come to do a job that can be of great social benefit.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic158x.u67	There is probably a need to simplify the procedures. That is the meaning of the request for reflection on the subject that has been made to the political groups. It may also be necessary to disseminate this information other than via the Monitor, which is not read by everyone. There is a need to re-aware the public. It would be interesting to include doctors trained and willing to practice GVI in the collection of permanent data which should be done within the framework of this cadastre, and that this information is available in order to be able to anticipate. Apparently, a doctor who works and then stops is not always replaced by a younger one. His potential replacement may also not be aware of the need to incorporate this into his practices. We will probably have an opportunity to discuss this at the time of the cadastre. It's not all done at once. Providing guidance on these roles and functions that are expected of them is a good thing.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic158x.u68	Madam Minister, I understand that you still believe in the current evaluation committee and that you will do everything in your power to restore them, with sufficient candidates. My only question is, do you know why it's so limp?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic158x.u69	That doesn't just apply to this committee. There are still committees set up by the legislator but which have not been put together. There is simply a need for committed citizens who want to work.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic158x.u70	So it doesn't have anything to do with this subject? It is a malaise that applies to all committees?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic158x.u71	Let us hope not.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic158x.u72	I'm just asking because I don't know.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic158x.u73	It is the same with the Ethics Commission for the composition of which we cannot have political agents. In addition to the Abortion Commission, another must be replaced. Is this the one about euthanasia?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic158x.u74	The problem is that the law states that such an evaluation committee should be set up and that these recommendations should be made to policy. Now everything has been blocked for years. One cannot do anything, or one must change the law. I hereby appeal to committed citizens to sign up.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic158x.u75	I have another informative question for you. How much is the remuneration for these kinds of commissions?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic158x.u76	It's very low. That goes for everything.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic158x.u77	Very low. Does that mean 10 euros or 15 euros?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic158x.u78	There is a fee for the travel expenses. I've been on the Supreme Council of Medicine and Specialists. There it was 150 euros for half a day or so. It's like that everywhere. People are more out of voluntarism there.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic158x.u79	That's right. The second committee deals well with euthanasia. I remember the names of some of the candidates. Former members represent themselves, while others do not. And then there are academics, not to mention that people are getting older too.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic158x.u80	As I have had the opportunity to ask part of my question in plenary, I will let Mrs Van Camp begin. If anything is missing, I will allow myself to complete his speech.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic158x.u81	Madam President, the matter has already been discussed in plenary. I understood at the time that it was actually too early to make any further statements. Maybe we can do this now. With this directive, Europe has imposed eight competences which must now be translated into several professional and competence profiles. Europe also allows several training pathways for nursing, in universities, higher education or vocational education. The revision of the Royal Decree No. 78 and the preliminary draft of the General Union of Nurses of Belgium have created some uncertainty in the educational landscape for nurses and by extension also in the workplace and the students. A professional profile was established and an opinion was formulated to you after approval by the Federal Council for Nursing. If the advice leads to the organisation of nursing at level 6, it becomes impossible to obtain the title nurse through the HBO5 training. HBO5 nurses are currently fully-fledged nurses, who are employed in the same way in practice and do the same basic care. I believe that almost 50% of the current nurses employed have received such HBO5 training. First of all, how do you see the relationship between the HBO5 people and the bachelor nurses? Are they at the same level for you or do you think that the HBO5 nurses are at a lower level of organization than the bachelor nurses? Has only the Federal Council for Nursing been involved in drawing up the professional and competence profile? If so, why? Secondly, which professional organisations were not involved and why? I am thinking of the workers, employers and education, in other words, about everyone who is in turmoil with the changes that are imminent. Don't you think it's crucial to involve everyone for the sake of representativeness and acceptance? Thirdly, have you received the advice of the Federal Council of Nursing? What's the content? What does it mean for nursing? Will nursing training now be organized at level 6? What competences have been taken over from the European Directive? Did you get any more? If so, which one and why? Does it mean that the training will be reviewed? Fourthly, when nurses are raised to level 6, it becomes impossible to recognise the title of nursing at the level of HBO5 in the future. There are different directions possible. I've just listed them. I was wondering what direction it would go. Is there gonna be a name change for the HBO5 guys? If so, what will it be? Or will HBO5 training be abolished? Or will something be changed about the actions that HBO5 are allowed to take? In the latter case, will there be a shortage of nurses, or in the event of the removal of HBO5 training? Will measures be taken to this end? Finally, a lot of HBO5 people then take a bachelor's degree through the bridge training course. Do you have any figures from your fellow Member from the Länder which show how many of the bachelors had previously received HBO5 training?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic158x.u82	In plenary, you told us that you would forward the opinion of the Federal Council of Nursing to the various Ministers of the Communities. I also briefly asked you about the need to deal jointly with the training of nursing assistants and new professions related to nursing in its various aspects. In fact, we find people who are trained differently today and who will no longer be able to enter the nursing profession if they do not have the training required by the directive but who may be entrusted with other tasks that could be reviewed during improved or strengthened training. I think that if we do not cooperate, these people and their training centres could face some fears and find themselves in difficulty. We cannot create new diplomas or recognitions without the use of skills and training. In this context, where are you in your contacts with the Communities?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic158x.u83	We have already had a first exchange of views on the subject in plenary. My services are examining the advice given by the Federal Council for Nursing and consultation with the Communities will take place. Once further analysis and consultation with stakeholders has been completed, a new concept of the practice of nursing will still need to be defined. This concept will be used in the legislative work to be carried out in the context of the reform of Royal Decree No. 78 on the health professions. It is obvious, of course, that if we move towards a demarcation within the framework of the Royal Decree No. 78, the opinion will be taken into account. Of course, the European Directive 2005/36, as well as Directive 2013/55 on the recognition of professional qualifications, will also have to be taken into account. That Directive defines different competences in nursing, which can be translated into one or more professional profiles. In accordance with the Directive, there are several forms of training available in universities, colleges and higher vocational education, which is what applies to HBO5, provided that the final terms are met, inter alia with regard to professional internship. There are several possibilities, but I do not want to anticipate them. Education is the competence of the Communities. In order to know what title one can wear in the nursing context, we will therefore have to follow up with the training and the necessary training courses. In a hospital people need all kinds of staff, as I have said many times. In a hospital, the duties are subsidiary. Every form of training has a future in that, in my personal opinion. As long as the profile is not established, I do not comment on the tasks, including the valuation of the work, of HBO5. I am sure that they must somehow, perhaps under another name, continue to exist. I'm on slippery ice right now, but I don't think it's necessary for a hospital to have only masters running around for nursing duties. That has nothing to do with how we appreciate these nurses, because every job is useful. I often give the example of the person who cleans the operating room. Maybe your fate is in his hands! If it is not clean, an infection dies, even if a good, overqualified surgeon has operated. Your fate is sometimes in the hands of someone who cleans up in a hospital. This has always been a very important point for me: everyone must fulfil their duties properly. It would therefore be wrong, given that we already have helping hands too short in nursing, to set the bar very high in terms of title and thereby exclude persons who could work well in a hospital, provided that the necessary training is provided with the necessary end-terms and with the necessary guidance. This must, of course, be in line with the European directive, and that is a task which my fellow Members in the European Communities will have to deal with. They will, of course, have to submit their proposals to the Inter-Ministerial Conference, as there is also a link with the one in C.B. No. 78 defined delineation. I find it rather delicate to ask for figures from my fellow Members of the Communities themselves. You have enough colleagues in the Flemish Parliament to ask Mrs Crevits for the necessary figures. I therefore kindly invite you to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic158x.u84	Madam Secretary, I will put my fellow Members to work. In between the rules, I understand that the future of the HBO 5 nurses is guaranteed in any case and that there is no deletion, we are very happy about that. Everyone has their place there, the Dutch model looks very nice and this can also be done in practice with us, where there is sufficient differentiation with the bachelor nurses, as well as with the healthcare professionals. That is an important concern, which lives on the field of work. When can we expect a decision?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic158x.u85	Since there's a lot of questions to be asked, I can't put a deadline on that. I understand the impatience on the ground, but we have five years to transpose the European directive, which is a normal deadline.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic158x.u86	It is expected to come into force in January 2016. We still have a few months.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic158x.u87	I'm saying we're going to move on, but we don't have a deadline. Several levels of power are involved. It's impossible to go faster.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic158x.u88	I think we need to be ready for the 2016 school year.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic158x.u89	Me too, but we lost time.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic158x.u90	An exemption must be requested so that students who will be released in June 2016 can be considered nurses. I think you said in plenary that you had written to the European Commission to obtain this exemption for students in 2015.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic158x.u91	Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic158x.u92	Have you received an answer?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic158x.u93	No. Of course. They're not quick to answer either. With the European Commission, we can wait a long time. Sometimes it's settled before we get the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic158x.u94	To be followed. It is true that schools are reorganising their training. This is an obligation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic158x.u95	Madam President, Minister, the delay in this question is actually a good thing, because it is also before the Advisory Committee on Scientific and Technological Questions, wherever this issue is dealt with. Big data or data mining in healthcare is already successfully applied in several Scandinavian countries. Different databases are anonymized with data on demography, medical consumption, residence and so on. This provides a wealth of medical-demographic data that allows us to benchmark, design, direct and follow-up health policies. The associated scientific output is far beyond ours. I have often participated in conferences where I noticed that our publications disappeared in nothing but what they could present. Madam Minister, how do you view the linking of data, albeit with guarantee of anonymity and for non-commercial purposes, as applied in Scandinavia? Which databases could be linked together? Are you familiar with the Scandinavian models used in this area? Do you think such a thing would be possible for Belgium? If not, why not? What links are missing? If so, do you intend to address the missing links? If so, when? Are you thinking of setting up a centre for regional social security statistics?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic158x.u96	Madam Minister, Mrs Van Camp, the development of an efficient knowledge system is indeed important for our policy. The coalition agreement makes it very clear that there will be work on a legal basis for the disclosure of aggregated and anonymised data for public and private research purposes. In the past important initiatives have already been taken to develop the registration of medical data. Think of the minimal clinical data in hospitals, the cancer register and the extension of the register for anti-TNF medicines such as Tardis that was launched last week. The important thing is that these registrations do not lead to an administrative overload on the provision of care but rather to the development of generic models. In 2013, an important study was published by the OECD entitled Strengthening Health Information Infrastructure for Health Care Quality Governance. Good data collection and linking of data with full respect for and guarantee of privacy are an indispensable tool in a modern health policy. A long time ago, the RIZIV started preparing the so-called Health Data Project, which, in consultation with, among others, the Scientific Institute of Public Health, developed a platform for the collection, management and unlocking of health and healthcare data for scientific research. The data is anonymized, as it should be. The project will be dealt with in the short term by the insurance committee of the RIZIV. It is based on a generic methodology and also inspires the foreign systems and initiatives that have already been developed. We are therefore close to its unfolding. I myself think that is a very important point. After all, measuring is knowing. It may be useful to adjust policy when certain conclusions can be drawn from the project. You're asking for a regional database. Because this is done at federal level by the RIZIV and the Scientific Institute for Public Health, it is important that the platform remains at federal level. After all, this is about health and healthcare data.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic158x.u97	Madam Minister, it is good that we can request the contact details of that pilot project in order to take them with us to the advisory committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic158x.u98	Mrs. Muylle is absent.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic158x.u99	Madam President, Minister, the subject of my question dates back a while, but the story continues to come back. In 2013, Soliris came to public attention for the first time by seven-year-old Viktor who suffered from the rare and deadly condition aHUS and can only survive with Alexion. However, this treatment is very expensive, i.e. about EUR 18 000 per month, which was priceless for parents. The then Minister of Health, Mrs Onkelinx, negotiated an agreement with Alexion for the reimbursement of Soliris. That agreement remained secret, until mid-March 2015 a newspaper claimed to have looked into that contract. Far-reaching concessions have been made, such as the fixing for an indefinite period of time of the price of an ampoule at EUR 4 278, with the addition that this price could not be revised at any time. Nowhere would the company be obliged to carry out additional research into that medicine or to evaluate its effects, which is normally common. However, the Minister would have obtained a 5% discount and the first two ampoules for each new patient would be free of charge. By the way, the media campaign around Viktor was set up by Alexion himself. The contract is intended for patients who urgently need Soliris, but it can also be important at earlier stages, and so it has come back to the topicality. Madam Secretary, I have the following questions. Is it actually allowed for a minister to conclude such a secret contract with pharmaceutical companies? In fact, Parliament is carrying out a monitoring function that is sacred in that sense. Now that that contract has been leaked, will you hand it over to the members of our committee? In my view, this is important in view of our control function. If you don't want to, what's the reason for the secrecy? How did that contract even leak to the paper? What funds and/or pharmaceutical companies have such secret contracts been concluded for? Is that really a unique thing or is that also true for other products? For what reasons is a contract kept secret? For what reasons was the contract kept secret in the specific file I mentioned? Would you, as the current Minister of Health, conclude such contracts in secret? Have you yourself concluded such contracts under your legislature that cannot be looked at? What are the motives for this? What do you think of the terms of that particular contract regarding Soliris? Are there too far-reaching concessions made to the company, as it is claimed? Are the stories in the paper about the contract the previous Health Minister signed with Alexion? I am referring in particular to the conditions or the lack of conditions. Is the contract signed by your predecessor with Alexion binding and valid? Is there a negotiating margin or not? Are the prices mentioned in the newspapers true? Is it correct that Alexion set up the media campaign around Viktor? At the request of the College of Medicine for Orphan Medicinal Products, the CTG has also been shot into action. The CTG is now considering whether and how the conditions could be extended. Can you tell us anything about that? Is it possible to break that contract and will the reimbursement be extended to patients at an earlier stage of the condition? In the meantime, is there any clarity about the doses and duration of treatment in these other patients? Should they only receive the medicine before and after transplantation, for a limited period of time or life? Alexion himself identifies the Belgian government as a major culprit. According to them, it was the Belgian government that introduced criteria that prevented seriously ill aHUS patients waiting for a kidney transplant from accessing Soliris. According to Alexion, other countries do recognise the value of Soliris and have ensured that all patients have access to it. Is this correct? What initiatives have you taken or will you take to improve the treatment of patients with aHUS? Are you considering taking initiatives to support a European fund for rare diseases? I have another question about that later. When can we expect a solution in this dossier? What actions will you take to avoid this kind of situation in the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic158x.u100	Madam President, Mrs Van Camp, these are a lot of questions. To your question if it's true, I can answer you in the negative. This is a complicated file and it's mixed up. I still consider the document between Alexion and my predecessor to be confidential. I don't know how this document was leaked to the newspapers. That happened after it was on the CTG, but I don't know how it was leaked. I've ordered an investigation, but it's a difficult search. I have no knowledge of such contracts with other companies. I am certainly not saying whether I would do the same, given the circumstances of the negotiations and the way in which a decision should be taken. I can't go back in time. We need to discuss this with the people who made the decision at the time. However, I have had a legal analysis of whether I am bound by an agreement between my predecessor and a company, in which that agreement is outside the existing procedures. The repayment procedure provides for the possibility of negotiating with the company, in particular Article 81 of the Royal Decree of 21 December 2001. This procedure could be initiated at the request of the company within seven days of receipt of the final Commission proposal on medicinal products. The prizes in the newspaper were published in the Belgian Official Journal of 20 June 2013 and can therefore also be found on the website of the RIZIV. I assume they're knocking. The Committee on Medicinal Products for Medication has examined the extension of the reimbursement in the indication aHUS for patients with end-stage renal insufficiency and renal transplant candidates who are suffering from the syndrome but are currently not actively present, in order to prevent recurrence of aHUS after transplantation. Indeed, on Tuesday 31 March, the CTG submitted a negative final proposal for the extension of the refund, stating that the evidence of the final registration on the list of recoverable specialities for this indication is not proportionate to the price applied for. In addition, there were also questions about the posology and treatment duration of the medicinal product for which the refund was requested. There are therefore both substantive arguments and arguments relating to the pricing. Afterwards, it was possible to launch a contract negotiation procedure for this new indication, but the company did not discuss it. There is no clarity about the dose and duration of treatment for Soliris in these patients as the use of Soliris in these patients has never been investigated. This investigation could have been part of the contract. Patients would be given Soliris from before kidney transplantation to a certain period afterwards. It is generally assumed that the treatment duration would be 6 months for adults and 12 months for children because they have a higher reactivity. However, this still needs to be further investigated. In other words, the patients were not part of the initial refund application. The refund application submitted by Alexion at the time concerned only those patients in which the uncontrolled chronic activation of the complement is present. These are patients with active aHUS and not patients with latent syndrome. Since the company did not take the initiative to initiate a contract procedure under Article 81 to allow the reimbursement of Soliris for this group of patients, I analyse all possible alternative slopes that fit within the regulations to find a solution for these patients. I therefore followed the advice of the CTG of 31 March. I let you know last Thursday. A possible solution for patients is therefore still being discussed, but it should follow a new procedure. As far as European access for orphan medicinal products is concerned, I have already said, in connection with my policy paper, that I am in favour of faster and less expensive access for patients to care and medicines for the treatment of rare diseases. I believe that it is better to organise this access at the European level. I touched it a first time at the first meeting, here in Brussels, of the European Council. I concluded an agreement in Riga on 20 April with my Dutch colleague Edith Schippers to launch a pilot project for a joint negotiation for reimbursement for orphan medicinal products. I have also been in contact with my Luxembourg colleague. We will be sitting together with a number of European countries, pending any action at European level, but you know that we will have to wait a very long time, with so many countries and so many different health systems and organisations. I have therefore taken the initiative to sit down with the Dutch on this matter in order to reach an agreement. Our administrations are now working on this agreement. Later on, I will try to join with more and more other countries through bilateral contacts. It is important to increase the effectiveness of orphan medicinal products. We are dealing here with rare diseases. Someone called it a lonely battle of a minister against farmareuzen. It goes on. The most important thing is that there are still talks and contacts and that there is the will to find a solution for patients, including for the extension of the indication, but for me everything has to be done within the rules.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic158x.u101	Madam Secretary, it is good that there are no other secret contracts. I understand that the contract cannot be made public to everyone, but it could, for example, be delivered to the Health Committee at a closed meeting. We have already mentioned that statements are being made in the media, without the committee having access to the data to discuss it itself. This could be done, for example, in a closed meeting. It is good to hear that there is cooperation with fellow Members from the other countries concerned. There is another question. Hopefully a solution can still be found. The basis for the negative advice is mainly the price. If the price could be renegotiated, the treatment could be extended.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic158x.u102	Madam President, Minister, several medical associations are denouncing the growing malaise among general practitioners. The sources of this malaise are multiple. There are, first of all, areas where the shortage of generalists is felt, often in rural areas but also in large cities and particularly in disadvantaged neighbourhoods; the workload for the doctors concerned is then too heavy and the guards are chained up. Patients tend to use specialists too quickly. When they return to the general practitioner, the general practitioner is confronted with often inadequate treatment. This is reflected in various articles that I have been able to read. Moreover, the generalists deplore the lack of consideration of the medical world, in general, and hospitable, in particular. According to them, this lack of consideration is a cause of the shortage of doctors. This situation should not be taken lightly. In France, for example, figures showed that more than 50 doctors died a year. This figure is 2.5 times higher than in other occupations. Minister, many efforts are being made to address the problem of physician shortages. Can you tell me where we are now? What can we do to encourage the first use of the general practitioner and not the specialist?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic158x.u103	Mrs Jadin, like you, I am concerned about the risk of a shortage of general practitioners who, in the front line, play a fundamental role in health care. The question of the shortage of general practitioners is not a simple one, because it is not only a question of acting on the total number of general practitioners authorised to practise in Belgium, but also of the geographical distribution at local level. It is therefore on the basis of improved and quantified data that more relevant advice can be given on physician planning and on current and future potential gaps. This brings me to another level of action to specifically support general practitioners. There is the Impulse Fund created on the initiative of Mrs Onkelinx. Three Impulse Plans have been put in place, namely Impulse Plans I, II and III. INAMI has conducted a study on the geographical distribution of general practitioners and regularly updates its results. By frequently measuring the medical density per municipality, areas of general medicine with low medical density are identified. The general practitioner who settles in one of these communes can therefore benefit from the Impulse premium. Each year, the list on the website is updated. In the past, several initiatives have already been taken to make patients appreciate the central role of the general practitioner. I am thinking in particular of the overall medical record. The public is increasingly convinced of the value of the generalist. The holistic and personal approach allows patients to make their health decisions by being informed through a trust partnership. The general practitioner is aware of the complexity of the overall care offer and guides the patient by respecting his preferences and taking into account the quality and performance of the clinical path to be developed, new technologies including the computerized medical record allowing for continuous communication and more effective interaction between general practitioners and other health professionals. Expectations of general medicine are very high and the complexity of the pathology increases as the population ages. The length of stay at the hospital is shortened, which implies increased responsibility of the general practitioner for monitoring the acute phase. Public Health will ask the general practitioner to apply his knowledge and experience in terms of epidemiology, social environment and medical approach to the population. It is therefore clear that all these challenges can constitute an overload of work for generalists, all the more so since they are few in number to cover a medical area. The available data do not allow me to answer your question for Belgium. Nevertheless, a French study which I am going to share with you the internet reference has shown that the health sector in this country is the most affected by the suicidal phenomenon. Burnout in the health care sector is an internationally known phenomenon. The workload, complexity of care, the environment and increasing expectations are risk factors. The combination of work and private life is sometimes unbalanced, as is often the case. Several days of study and scientific studies have already taken place in the health care sector. Measures to prevent burnout are both at the level of general policy and at the micro level where support between colleagues is very important. The generalist of the future will work less and less in an isolated way. That's already the case. Generalist teams work together with nurses and paramedics. They can thus achieve an administrative organization that facilitates their lives and frees time for the great challenges of the future. It is true that the profession is very busy and has repercussions on family and social life, which sometimes presents difficulties for some doctors. This does not explain why in some rural areas there are almost no more general practitioners. However, great efforts have been made, notably through Impulse I, II and III. In some areas, this has helped us but not everywhere. I am thinking in particular of your region, Mrs Jadin.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic158x.u104	We face a number of challenges, including the geographical proximity of other countries that practice other policies of general medicine. Minister, thank you for the comprehensiveness of your answer. The idea of regrouping several doctors is growing more and more. This will probably require thinking about another proposal I made in conjunction with Mr.Clarinval regarding employer groups. These regrouping opportunities will need to be further facilitated, which will lead to vocations for general medicine in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic158x.u105	Madam President, you will not blame me if I say that I do not think it is a very happy dossier, but I understand why you are laughing, because we have had to come back to this on a number of occasions. Madam Minister, this question dates back to 25 March, even before the Inter-Ministerial Conference. I am of course glad that she is only now being discussed, because otherwise she was actually without an object. In the meantime, the pressing character of demand has become even greater. On 30 March last, the Flemish and French Community had to submit to the Inter-Ministerial Conference a note containing an adequate filter for limiting the influx of students. This filter must be applied at the beginning of next academic year. Hopefully we all agree on that. Madam Minister, we have discussed this several times in recent months. I am very curious about the note. I do not think I need to remind you that it is high time for the candidate students to know where they stand. Madam Secretary, what's in the notebooks? In what way does the Flemish Government intend to maintain and improve the filter, which has existed for 15 years in the form of an entrance examination? What is more important is the question of how the French Community will finally introduce an adequate filter to limit the start of the studies. What's your opinion on these plans? Are they gonna be okay? What are the consequences? If you cannot answer this because the debate is still going on, I wonder how you see the future, because it is becoming less and less realistic for the French Community to be given a decree with a filter in time for the beginning of next academic year. I'm a little worried about you, too.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic158x.u106	Madam Minister, in early March, I asked you about the INAMI number file. You agreed to give a number to all medical students who finished their studies in 2015, in exchange for which Community Ministers, and in particular Mr Marcourt for the French Community, had to commit themselves to establishing a system to filter students wishing to start medical studies as early as 2015-2016. There was also a question of developing a dynamic cadastre to determine the number of doctors needed to provide optimal service to citizens in the coming years. You then reminded me of your various initiatives in favour of these students and in favour of an effective system. You also regretted the reaction of Minister Marcourt, who has repeatedly changed his mind about the filter at the entrance to medical school. An inter-ministerial conference was scheduled for 30 March, at which these topics were to be discussed widely. What is the outcome of this inter-ministerial conference on 30 March and the pre-meetings? Could a solution be found, which would ensure both a sufficient number of doctors on Belgian territory and a filter at the start of medical studies? What filter has been preferred in both Communities? Are you satisfied with the conclusions of the Interdepartmental Conference? Are there any points on which this conference has not been able to take a decision?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic158x.u107	Madam President, I was present at the Inter-Ministerial Conference. However, neither the French-speaking Community Minister for Education nor the Flemish Community Minister for Education was present. So there has been no discussion. I repeat that I have put on the table a proposal for a solution with conditions for the Communities, not only for the French-speaking but also for the Flemish Community. The latter must also make adjustments in order to organise an adequate admission test. It is, of course, up to them to develop the modalities of the experiment. I would accept the development of a dynamic land register. We have followed the dossier very closely. The dynamic land register will be there, as promised, by next summer. We all have to do our part of the job. I hear from the French Community, and I read in questions put there by your fellow representatives, that there is still a lot going on there. However, no statement has yet been made on the form the filter will take. I assume that there has not yet been a final ruling, and I take note of that. I'm as impatient as you are. However, I cannot be disrespectful. I would have liked to have had a discussion at the Inter-Ministerial Conference. However, it is difficult to start a discussion when the actors concerned are not there. At the federal level, my administration is moving forward on what has been promised, the improved cadastre of doctors. It will give a photograph of their professional activity and their density in relation to the population, and is in the process of finalisation. It will be ready for mid-2015 as promised from the beginning. The work can be initiated in the future. The aim will be to project the possible evolutions of this labour force according to several scenarios and to measure their impact in terms of response to needs, according to the main parameters, i.e. the evolution of the population and the consumption of care. We agree on this. While I look forward to knowing all these elements, it seems prudent to maintain the status quo with regard to the quota of doctors. Each one has its responsibility in the file. I have allowed the lissage (smoothing) for the quota of students who are now graduating. I've never made a secret that I won't do that again next year. So it is a huge responsibility for policy makers in the French Community where a whole year of students will be sacrificed. The lissage stops when the number of songs is exhausted. So there must be a solution. I take note of the fact that in the meantime we are already in May and that the slopes of the tasks of one and the other are not being followed. However, it is in the interest of the students. I read that already the veterinary students are involved in this. So the file is expanding. It is not just a question of doctors but also of dentists and now also of veterinary surgeons in the making.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic158x.u108	Madam Secretary, thank you very much. I take note of the same political determination, which I understand less and less. In fact, I can only read one thing in that, namely that people really continue to hope that you will give in at the last minute. I hope that I will not see it; I have heard you say it quite clearly.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic158x.u109	I don't know who's hoping for that, because if I think I'm right in my shoes, I don't tend to change my mind.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic158x.u110	I'll follow you there. I cannot understand, however, that this is the way to act on the other side of the language border. That's my question. You cannot set a real deadline, but the deadline will of course take place when no decision can be adopted. Then it's just too late, I suppose. We're pretty close to that now, aren't we? It's May now.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic158x.u111	This simply means that a whole year of students will be sacrificed for someone who could not ideologically take the step to organise an entrance test. Anyway, that's not my responsibility. I repeat, that is someone else's responsibility. If we think we can have a proper debate on this at the long-announced Inter-Ministerial Conference, with nine fellow Members and not all those who need to be there, then it is also clear that we are avoiding a discussion.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic158x.u112	Madam Secretary, I follow you for 100% in the area of responsibility. That is certainly not your responsibility, but you are taking them now, and I can only be happy about that, although happy is a wrong word. After all, I am not happy with the way in which students were apparently dealt with on the other side of the language border, and with the impact of this approach on our students for years. I take note of your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic158x.u113	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. As you said, each one has his own responsibility. But participating in an interdepartmental meeting, where you are alone, is really showing that there is no dialogue and that we do not want to move forward on the issue. The last thing we could do is send a new letter to the ministers in charge, in order to tell them their missions and duties. You have accomplished yours, because our only goal is to find solutions for students who spend 5 or 7 years or more in their studies.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic158x.u114	Question No 1, by Mr De Pasquale (H-l Mrs Fonck's 3362 and 3363 were postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic158x.u115	Minister, at the end of last year, I was asking you about the implementation of the National AIDS Plan. This multi-year, cross-cutting project involving all levels of power in this country was expected by many associations active in the fight against this epidemic and in support of HIV-positive people. It wanted to implement 58 priority actions, none of which have so far been finalised. In late March, quite recently, associations were demonstrating in front of the INAMI headquarters to denounce the possible abandonment of funding for the decentralized and de-mediated screening project, which was the heart of the National AIDS Plan. These associations also fear that the Plan will be abandoned outright because of the lack of federal budgetary resources, such as the appointment of a Mrs or a Mr.Sida to coordinate or establish a national council for HIV-positive people, which does not, however, require colossal budgets. The issue of screening was considered crucial by the Plan. How can people be treated if they are not known to have the disease? The generalization of medical screening (without a doctor) and decentralized (not necessarily in a medical practice or hospital) is a technique that is particularly effective among target audiences, men who have sex with other men and migrants, as can be seen in neighbouring countries. Ms Onkelinx had defined, together with a wide range of actors, two target audiences for whom decentralized testing was particularly appropriate. Minister, are you considering, as the Plan clearly provides, legislation to allow for the generalization and amplification of de-medicalized and decentralized screening, or do you wish to continue to require the presence of a physician during these screenings? Are you considering the end of the granting of subsidies and other facilities and exceptions by INAMI to associations that are now conducting decentralized and de-mediated testing for this reason? If so, what is the deadline? When will you proceed with the appointment of a National AIDS Plan Coordinator? When will you set up the Advisory Council for People Living with HIV?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic158x.u116	Madam President, I think that Mr Hellings did well in order to question all those who are concerned about the fight against HIV/AIDS. Indeed, as he said, the Plan was cross-cutting. All levels of government have participated, not only with all departments at the federal level, but also with people living with HIV/AIDS. As part of our work with them, it became clear that the issue of screening was essential. Unfortunately, too many people are being tested too late. We explored the reasons for the delay in screening. For some target groups, such as men who had sex with other men, there was a difficulty in turning to a medical practice and fears of stigmatization. Therefore, it may be necessary to find another bias in order to increase the chances of screening. This is why a pilot project was launched in 2013, for which the ASBL Ex Aequo had obtained a subsidy from INAMI. I was in the first cohort and I got tested on a bus. A bus allows you to travel in different neighborhoods. The whole question was whether it could be done without a doctor or nurse, but by trained staff, as is the case in other countries. The idea was to work with this pilot project called "Test-Out" and then extend it on a large scale. It would seem, but I do not have the confirmation, that the grants for Test-Out would have ended for 2015. Minister, is the grant maintained, yes or no? To give you a figure, thanks to the pilot project last year, 511 people were detected through this method, of which 13% had never been detected before. Minister, is this grant story true? The pilot experiment was intended to define possible conditions for this type of screening and for the training of those who could perform the screening. Are there more specific details on the professionals who could conduct the screening today? My question is more about screening, but I obviously agree with Mr Hellings in his more comprehensive questions about the National AIDS Plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic158x.u117	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, before we legislate on this matter, it is necessary to analyse the conditions under which possible de-mediated testing could be carried out, and this requires, in particular, the establishment of a consultation between the partners in the field and the competent authorities. As the situation stands, it is therefore too early to position itself in relation to the way in which this proposal is put into practice. In particular, the National Order of Physicians considers that such tests must be organised, supervised and evaluated by reference structures approved or recognised by the competent authorities which have doctors in their midst. The recruitment of volunteers must be rigorous; their training and skills are essential. Appropriate follow-up and support measures must be defined to prevent the person from being delivered to himself or herself at the end of the screening. Collaborative arrangements with care facilities must be in place to ensure that the identified person has easy access to medical care and psychosocial support. The use of the attending physician should be encouraged as the rapid diagnostic orientation test is not sufficient to confirm a seropositivity and needs to be confirmed by a conventional screening test. Additional advice on this issue has been sought from the Higher Council of Health. I'm waiting for his conclusions. The demonstration which took place in front of the INAMI headquarters was an initiative of the ASBL Ex Aequo, with which it was decided not to conclude any more agreements. I recognize that this association is doing useful field work. However, this is not taken into consideration in the allocation of federal funding, as the NBA does not promote medical accompaniment as a basic service. In this case, these are non-medicalized tests. The search for an appropriate approach in terms of prevention and screening is no longer a matter for health insurance, but is now well regarded as a competence of the Communities. In addition, the ASBL Ex Aequo aims to promote health in order to reduce the number of HIV infections and sexually transmitted infections among men who have sex with other men, while the scope of the INAMI project makes it an explicit condition to accompany heterosexual, homosexual, bisexual and transsexual sex workers. This explains the situation of this association. It should be added, however, that four other associations active in the field, having met the conditions, have seen their funding renewed and even increased. It was therefore not an economic measure. Monitoring of the implementation of the National AIDS Plan is currently being carried out by the Intercabinet Working Group on Chronic Diseases of the Interministerial Conference on Public Health. Questions relating to the coordination and establishment of the Advisory Council for People Living with HIV will therefore be discussed in collaboration with the Communities and Regions in the coming weeks or months, as part of the reflection on the care of people with chronic illness. Although the ASBL Ex Aequo worked well, its niche was rather narrow. In addition, it no longer met the necessary conditions for the extension of the convention between it and INAMI. However, as I said, the funding of four associations active in the field has been increased.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic158x.u118	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. The pilot project for men who had sex with other men, the Ex Aequo project, was never intended for formal screening. This was always an indication. Second, members of this association and their volunteers systematically referred, in the event of positive screening, to AIDS reference centres, which have the necessary psychosocial support and formal validation by a doctor. Never were these pilot projects intended to actually test for AIDS. It was a question of giving an indication. This type of alert does not necessarily require a doctor.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic158x.u119	I didn't say that!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic158x.u120	Of course! Informal, militant screening is an indication. The actual screening is done in the reference centres or at the doctor's. It is interesting not only for public health but also for social security and its budget that AIDS patients can be detected as quickly as possible. It is not only necessary to see the budgetary measures to be taken by reducing subsidies to these associations in terms of expenditure but also investment. For the public defined as "target" by the National AIDS Plan, it was clear from the discussion with associations, practitioners and doctors that the two target audiences, namely migrants and men having sex with other men, had to be given absolute priority. When you decide to target sex workers and when INAMI decides to allocate its budgets only to sex workers and associations that follow them, you miss one of the key targets of the National AIDS Plan that were the HSH (men having sex with men). Today, there is clearly a missing link in the screening chain, going more precisely to HSH. Not homosexuals because there are men who have sex with other men and who will never assume themselves as homosexuals and who will never assume it in front of their family doctor or in an AIDS hospital or referral centre. They will be afraid to take the necessary medical steps to treat themselves because they do not assume their repressed homosexuality. I will conclude by saying that the appointment of an AIDS coordinator, whether a man or a woman, does not await a cooperation agreement or discussions to be held with the federated entities. The agreement in principle has been reached and is contained in the National AIDS Plan. This would help implement this inter-federal agreement if you started the pump by appointing this person and a small team to monitor what is being done in all federal entities and at the federal level. I therefore really encourage you to do so, without waiting for a new potential agreement with your colleagues from the federated entities.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic158x.u121	Madam Minister, I agree with you that this decentralised screening must always be complemented by at least psychological and medical follow-up. Learning to someone about HIV/AIDS requires psychological care, followed by confirmation; it's obvious. For the rest, I do not understand the approach and hope that we will have the opportunity to discuss it again. This was a pilot project, which was intended to lead the federal government to define the conditions for medical screening. The Federal Government has jurisdiction over the matter, not the Communities. An agreement from the federal government is required to complete this screening. In particular, the federal government is awaiting the opinion of the Supreme Council of Health, which I think will be available soon. You stop a pilot project that is used to define conditions for a new type of screening when you do not yet have the opinion of the Higher Health Council. I have the impression that a mistake has been made in the process. With regard to the competence of the Communities, in addition to the fact that it is up to the federal government to determine whether medical testing can be carried out on the basis of a pilot experiment, you tell us that other associations continue to receive subsidies. The situation of Ex Aequo, which could lead to a new vision of screening and which has seen its subsidies stopped, is therefore even less understandable. I would point out that from the moment the federal government decides that screening is de-mediated, it can just as well say that it stops, and that it is up to the Communities to take over, because it is then prevention and testing outside doctors. I'd like to talk about it again because I feel like we put the plough before the ox.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic158x.u122	Mr. Hellings, you're saying that screening is only indicative. Ms. Onkelinx said that non-medical testing should be followed up. If not, what's the point? When you're HIV positive, you need to see a doctor.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic158x.u123	Madam Minister, you must know that!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic158x.u124	The test must always be confirmed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic158x.u125	You must be able to touch them, Madam Minister. Read the AIDS Plan again!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic158x.u126	The Ex Aequo association targets health promotion aimed at reducing new HIV indications and sexually transmitted infections among men who have sex with other men, while the scope of the INAMI project poses as an explicit condition a much broader group: the support of heterosexual, homosexual, bisexual and transsexual sex workers. I cannot repay pilot projects when they do not meet the conditions. That's impossible! That's the case with Ex Aequo. I don't see any reason to be against Ex Aequo. We decided to share the amount between the four associations meeting the conditions of INAMI.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic158x.u127	Minister, who has decided on the new terms and conditions of INAMI?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic158x.u128	These were no longer pilot projects. These conditions existed to make them structural.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic158x.u129	You're right!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic158x.u130	I don't think everyone's supposed to be talking through each other. I would appreciate your asking to speak.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic158x.u131	Parliament has the last word.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic158x.u132	You've already replicated, Mrs. Onkelinx. You can submit a new question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic158x.u133	Madam President, I have the right to speak. The last word is in parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic158x.u134	Then please decide.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic158x.u135	I will take the time to respond to the minister. What the minister says about the conditions of screening is correct but they will be defined by her, after advice from the Higher Health Council and on the basis of the pilot test of the ASBL Ex Aequo. We do not know why this process was suspended when you did not complete the work with the Higher Council of Health. Perhaps this work should not have been conducted by this LSA later because it was a pilot test. However, it is specialized for this target audience "man-sex-man" which had been considered a priority by everyone. That's why I still don't understand.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic158x.u136	Madam President, Madam Minister, an emergency service where there is no emergency doctor at night is increasingly happening in some smaller hospitals. The shortage of emergency doctors is so acute that when a doctor becomes ill, it is sometimes difficult to find a replacement. The MUG is then sometimes suspended or temporarily cancelled and those arriving at the emergency should wait for a doctor to be called home. The accessibility of care is thus compromised. People in acute distress cannot always be helped. The shortage of emergency doctors has many reasons. One of them was mentioned a long time ago and several times by several fellow Members, namely the abolition of acute medicine. The replacement by a slightly longer training as an acutist falls between two seats. After all, one is not a general practitioner, but also not a full specialist if one goes through this training. The really interesting work must often be passed on to the full specialists in the hospitals. At night and at night, only the dirty work can be done, often cases of general medical practice occurring in emergency situations. I remain silent about the funding of these functions in hospitals. An additional phenomenon is the increasing aggression towards aid workers, thus losing motivation and removing people from emergency positions. That last point is certainly not to be underestimated, but it is not at the heart of my question. The degree of acute medicine, however, is all the more so. The abolition of training has proved to be a serious blow to the emergency services of many hospitals. However, the training was a useful addition to the curriculum for any general practitioner or specialist interested in taking on emergency situations. That is why I would have liked to know what your personal view of the matter is. Are you open to reinvigorating the licence in order to give the emergency service breathing space again or are you working on an alternative?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic158x.u137	Mr Vercammen, acute medicine was introduced in 1998 as a method of providing medical specialists who were already working in the hospital with minimum additional training to allow them to observe permanences in emergency services and MUG services of their hospitals. The measure was of a temporary nature in order to organise training as a specialist in emergency medicine and specialist in acute medicine. In the context of a quality service in the care of acutely ill patients in hospitals, it was clear that it needed its own specialism to provide care. The Ministerial Decree of 14 February 2005 on the organisation of training as a specialist in emergency medicine and acute medicine therefore provided for transitional measures for fellow practitioners with acute medicine and who had acquired the necessary experience to be able to carry out the title of specialist in acute medicine. These transitional measures expired on 30 June 2010, after five years. The same ministerial decision therefore stipulated that from 1 January 2008 the training for acute medicine would no longer be organised. This was followed to ensure a high-quality service to patients who were acutely ill. I do not think it is appropriate to re-introduce the licence, but rather to continue to focus on appropriate specialism. I therefore refer to the registration project UREG. This project was rolled out in a test and validation phase this year. From 2016 onwards, the FPS Public Health will have complete data on each registration on an emergency service in Belgium. That data is not available today. In this way we will also identify who is working on which emergency services. I therefore believe that an in-depth analysis of this dataset should allow us to further refine the policy. Here's what I'm gonna give you. Very small hospitals may not always get their MUG or emergency service manned or manned or job vacancies left unfilled. Well, in the presentation on the new hospital funding, we have said that there will have to be a different way of working in the form of cooperation. In the future, not every hospital may have both an emergency service and a MUG or PIT. However, we want to ensure that the necessary accessibility and quality of care for a region are guaranteed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic158x.u138	Your answer will suffice, Madam Secretary. Thanks for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic158x.u139	The Leuven company Terumo produces injection needles, but with some of these needles apparently there is a problem. The epoxy glue used would have the nerve to get into the needles. The needles in question are used for combination vaccines with which children are vaccinated. This story came to light after a whistleblower from within the company had started knocking on a Dutch transmitter. I have been informed that you are aware of the problem and that the FAGG has examined or investigated the matter. Is that investigation over? Are the results available? Did the company obtain approval for the syringes in question with a notified body? When and which notified body was that? In case the syringes are indeed unsafe, how can this be discovered so late? We've had the story of the PIP breast implants and the crackling hips, and now this. Does this point out that the monitoring of medical devices is insufficient? How do the controls happen these days? In my question about implants, you referred to a KB that will soon be published on this subject. Is that there yet? What does this mean? How does that provide an answer to problems like now with the syringes, or in the past breast implants and hips? You also replied: "The Royal Decree also states what information the distributors are legally obliged to report to the government. If they do not, they commit an offence and risk a sentence, ranging from prison time to very high fines. The failure to report that an implant or its malfunction was at the root of a serious deterioration in the patient's health is, of course, paramount." If the FAGG's investigation shows that the firm concerned has committed itself to this, what penalties does it risk? Further to my previous question on implants, I would like to reiterate my observation that the recognition of medical devices is based on the production process and much less or even not on its operation and safety in the body. The possible occurrence with the syringes once again supports this story, so I repeat my question: do you think that in the preparatory process, in order to obtain a permit for medical equipment, the operation and safety in the body should also be investigated, rather than simply the production process? Why is only the production process targeted for medical equipment? Finally, the FAGG only acknowledges the notified bodies. Would you consider having the FAGG also check the quality of implants in terms of material, safety and operation? Why is that, or why not?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic158x.u140	Mr President, Mrs Van Camp, on Monday 23 March 2015, the FAGG was informed by the Dutch competent authority, the Health Care Inspectorate, about the possible leakage of epoxy adhesive from Terumo injection needles. To date, the FAGG has not received any reports from health care professionals or patients regarding materio-pharmacovigilance problems with Terumo needles, nor have any reports of adverse reactions to pharmacovigilance following administration of medicinal products. On Wednesday 25 March, FAGG carried out an inspection at the Terumo branch in Haasrode, in collaboration with the Health Inspectorate. This inspection was accompanied by samplings on site which were also sent to the Dutch authority, the National Institute for Public Health and the Environment, for analysis. On the basis of the site inspection, it could not be inferred that there was a direct danger to public health. The analysis of the seized needles must be awaited to confirm this, but they are not known to date. The Regions were also invited to an information meeting. The notified body of the Terumo needles is TÜV Rheinland and the injection needles were certified on 27 February 2012. The approval of a medical device file by a notified body is not necessarily accompanied by an inspection on site by this notified body and it is also not necessary that the elements for this determination were present in the technical file. In addition to enhanced checks on notified bodies, there are also controls on the production, distribution, publicity, delivery and traceability of medical devices, as well as on clinical studies with medical devices and increased materiovigilance. In addition, the illicit trafficking of medical devices will also be more severely addressed. A joint assessment plan was drawn up to ensure the supervision of notified bodies, a national competence, more uniform throughout Europe. Recently, these joint assessments were required for the first designation of a notified body, an extension of the designation or an extension of the designation. The Royal Decree of 3 February 2015 provided, inter alia, that a contact point should be set up for material vigilance with the aim of improving communication with the FAGG in order to detect incidents more quickly and to better monitor the follow-up of corrective actions. New fines have also been introduced, which will encourage a more thorough reporting of possible incidents. The obligation for manufacturers, agents, distributors and health professionals to report incidents to the FAGG applies. Each of the offenders of this obligation shall be sentenced from one to three years and shall be fined from EUR 1 000 to EUR 100 000 or only one of the two sentences. This issue was also discussed in the review of legislation at European level. Belgium supports the strengthening of the requirements for placing a medical device on the market, including by extending the pre-market clinical studies. In the context of postmarket surveillance, the FAGG has the possibility to take samples and carry out an analysis on the basis of a market signal, for example an incident. That is the action the FAGG has carried out for the PIP implants and also for the current case of the injection needles of Terumo. There are two elements. Firstly, on the basis of the elements currently available, the FAGG recommends that users and patients do not delay or discontinue treatment. When the results of the analysis are finally known, this information will also be disseminated. Secondly, we need to complete the European legal framework as soon as possible. Belgium supports this initiative. I also confirmed this recently at the meeting in Riga. I have confirmed this to my colleague Guntis Belevics, Minister of Health in Latvia, who is currently ensuring progress in the regulation of medical devices. There are still some bottlenecks in this European legal framework. We do not know whether Latvians will be able to complete this by the end of their European Presidency. If it is not completed, the Luxembourgers will have to continue their work. That wouldn't be so good. We have therefore called for a step forward and, preferably, for a conclusion at the end of the Latvian Presidency. That'd be great. Then we can take a step further. The European Agency also supported our FAGG recommendation in the same week. There was therefore no reason to take immediate action. The fact that we were supported in this is an important element.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic158x.u141	Thank you for your answer, but it is strange that the analyses are not yet known. If there's a risk, wouldn't one expect them to be there soon? The question also dates from...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic158x.u142	An initial analysis has already been carried out. It was found that there was no risk. Then more samples have been taken. It was only one fate, which is probably already largely used up. Two things must be taken into account. An incident that is reported is serious, but I think we should act against whistleblowers in matters that do not lead to anything. It is a matter that will cost a lot of money, which concerns many people and which, if confirmed, will have caused unnecessary panic. It is easy in a program to cause a lot of tumult for something that may not be necessary. That's a big responsibility. This wasn't an incident, it was a whistleblower. On 23 March it was reported and on 25 March there was already an in-depth investigation at the company which has fully cooperated. So the ball was played briefly, but we will come back to that. It's gonna get another tail. If it is confirmed that there is no danger to public health, action will have to be taken against such whistleblowers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic158x.u143	I'll follow it up.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic158x.u144	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Fonck's 3444 was postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic158x.u145	Madam Minister, the recently published results of the 2013 Health Survey did not immediately prove to be encouraging. Basically, the Fleming doesn't move enough and eats unhealthy. Many areas of this subject are not a federal matter, but I would like to ask you a few questions. What do you think the negative results are due to? Do you think that the sixth state reform, which is so fragmented in terms of health powers, makes it difficult to have a coherent policy? If so, what difficulties do you see and what can you do to prevent them? What have you done already? What are you planning to do to develop a more coherent policy together with the Länder? Who's involved? What is the concrete timetable? In what form do these talks take place? The results of the survey were discussed in De Standaard. A number of professors advocated a sugar and fat tax. Flemish minister Vandeurzen responded that many conditions must be met for introducing such a tax. What kind of conditions is he talking about? Have you had any conversations about this? Or was it a purely informative reply from the Minister? To my previous question on potassium chloride, you replied that a study had just been completed, the results of which would be available by the end of March. Was this about a study specifically on the use of salt or were there other issues involved? What are the results of that? Can we look at it? Has salt consumption decreased compared to the 10.45 grams found in the 2008 study? Has the objective set out in the 2009 agreement been achieved with a reduction of 10%? In the light of these results, do you consider salt reduction still a priority or will you rather focus on reducing saturated fats and calories? Finally, if we compare the 2008 results with the 2013 results, it appears that the decrease in fruit consumption, at least two portions of fruit per day, is only a trend in Flanders. Do you recognise a regional difference in fruit consumption? Do you think that a regional approach in this area is desirable?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic158x.u146	Mrs Van Camp, the results of the health survey carried out by the Scientific Institute for Public Health confirm what is being proposed throughout the industrialised world and also discussed in Riga, namely that sedentary lifestyles and increasing urbanisation mean that people do not move enough on average. Only 36% of the population in Belgium, over 15 years of age, achieves the minimum 30 minutes of movement per day. Also in terms of food habits, it appears that consumers are increasingly buying snacks, too much sugar and high fat products, although there are more and more foods on the market that fit into a responsible diet. Apparently the consumer is attracted by the unhealthy foods. In fact, the Communities have exclusive competence in the areas of preventive health care and pre-school education. Since the sixth state reform, the transfer of the National Food and Health Plan has been added. We remain federally responsible for the composition of foodstuffs in the areas of salt, sugar and fats, labelling and advertising. There is, of course, informal consultation between policy levels. It is always possible to address this issue at the Inter-Ministerial Conference on Health; As far as a so-called fat tax is concerned, I would remind you once again: I have already said this a few times here that the Minister of Finance actually regulates the taxation of consumables. In Denmark, a similar decision was removed after some time, indicating that more than one night of ice is needed to introduce such a measure. I have not yet received the result of the study on salt consumption. I think he'll be there soon. In the end, according to the health survey of the Scientific Institute for Public Health of 2013, only 21% of young Belgian adults eat at least two portions of fruit per day. In Flanders this is only 17%. I have already told you that the Communities are competent to sensitise the population to healthy food and the importance of eating fruit.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic158x.u147	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer. I'll plan a follow-up request on salt use.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic158x.u148	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Mathot's report was postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic158x.u149	Madam Secretary, in September 2013, the Federal Council for General Medical Circles issued an opinion on the health alert. According to the text, this health alarm concerns all health events that require information and cooperation with the general practitioner. The aim is to inform and mobilise the general practitioners as quickly and as effectively as possible through the circles. In the case of a health alert 1, the person responsible shall be appointed per family doctor's circle. The task for the circles is threefold: information, organization and acting as a focal point. However, until now this opinion has not been followed up. I believe, however, that this may be useful in some cases. Those are the cases where we will be aware of this in particular afterwards. That is why I wanted to ask you if you are familiar with that advice. Would you like to take steps to comply with this opinion? What's your assessment of this?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic158x.u150	Mrs Van Peel, in a large number of general practitioners, communication for urgent or non-emergency problems is already working properly through past events. They work with a pyramid system. The chairman or the communicator designated within the circle receives the messages from the government and then distributes them himself within the family doctor's circle. This may be a problem for the few remaining non-computerized doctors. However, since the sixth state reform, the Community has been responsible for the operation of the circle. So there is nothing I can do about it. I can only say it would be valuable. The evaluation and, where appropriate, the improvement of communication between the public authorities and the public and private sectors is therefore best addressed at Community level.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic158x.u151	I can't help myself with the state reform sometimes.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic158x.u152	I still discover powers that have been transferred every day. If you're asking, I'll have to give you an answer. I support the fact that the focal points, the general practitioners, the contact points and the pyramid system. That's the fastest thing to do. This was also used in the past in the case of weird flu conditions. Now that is a competence of the Communities.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic158x.u153	Thank you for the answer, Madam Secretary. Then I'll have to pass on the file.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic158x.u154	Madam President, I would like to add one more thing. Several members didn't show up. I repeat. It is not the first time that this has happened in committee. Nor is my comment addressed to those Members who are present. However, there is a lot of work in the answers to the questions, not only for my cabinet staff but also for the administration. There are members who have not even notified, which is very little respectful. On the other hand, I am sorry that Mr Blanchart has been sitting here for so long. If he wishes to translate his question into a written question, I will be happy to give him the written answer. I don't have a chance to stay. Mr. Van der Maelen also left. If you want to turn your question into a written question, I can give you the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic158x.u155	I'll be right back. (...): (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic158x.u156	It is not the first time that this has happened and it does not apply to you, because you are always present. If you're not here, I have no problem with that either. It's a lot. Some members are systematically absent. That goes for about one in three.
