ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-16-54-plenair-ip064x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-16-54-plenair-ip064x.u2	I would remind you of the agreement we made in the Conference of Presidents, namely 10 minutes of speaking time per group and 5 minutes of speaking time for the groups that are not represented in the Conference. Mr Dedecker has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-16-54-plenair-ip064x.u3	I am kicking in an open door when I say that Greece is Europe's economic disaster area today. Everyone agrees on that. The financial crisis has affected us all, but especially the southern countries, the countries that have been able to borrow cheap money thanks to the euro system and thereby derail the budget. In response to the crisis, a lot of taxpayers' money was pumped into those countries, particularly Greece. With the first two rescue packages and the haircut, the country received EUR 400 billion, or EUR 36 000 per Greek. That's an immense amount. However, we are once again debating Greece here today. The country must once again go around with the begging staff. The Greek case is exemplary for the obvious lack of agreements in the European currency union. Appointments must avoid making the mistakes of the past few years again and we will be standing here again in the future. Mistakes have been made in Greece, but also in Greece, and we must not forget this in Europe. Some agreements such as the no-bail-out clause have not been complied with. The last thing we can do now is express our blind adoration for Europe without thinking about it. Some say that if there are problems, the solution lies with more Europe. The same people say that if there are no problems, there is also a need for more Europe. That's not right. Then one tells a very simplistic story, without thinking. People are afraid to ask questions. That's not our story. Europe, ladies and gentlemen, is a fantastic story of peace, a story of economic advantage and prosperity for all of us thanks to scale effects and trade, but Europe is not the solution to everything. That's what we're seeing today. We must not be blinded by an adoration for the ever closing union. That mayonnaise won't take anymore. That story's over. It is really our duty to always remain critical and act in the interests of our prosperity and that of our citizens and of our taxpayers. That is what we are talking about today, ladies and gentlemen: once again, we are talking about a huge package of taxpayers' money, both today and in the past, not only in the case of Greece, but also in the case of the other eurozone countries that were experiencing a crisis. There's a responsibility there. The last impression that Europe can give is that Greece is given preferential treatment vis-à-vis those countries which were also experiencing a crisis, but which did deal with reforms, which did respect the conditions imposed in contrast to Greece. The last thing we can do is give preferential treatment. Solidarity, ladies and gentlemen, can only be achieved with responsibility. That's an essence. That is why, in the past, important efforts were required from Greece and from the other euro area countries receiving support programmes, both on the two fronts, on the pressure on public spending and, above all, on reforms. Specifically for Greece, I am talking about reforms that will create a society where it will be possible to invest again in economic growth, activities and jobs, on tackling clientelism and on reforms in Justice and Finance. The tax administration in Greece is, to say the least, a disaster. Other reforms are privatisations and, above all, the creation of legal certainty, so that a contract is a contract again. Those are reforms, which the other countries of the so-called PIIGS countries have carried out a long time ago. Those countries see the light today at the end of the tunnel. There is, of course, still a great deal of unemployment. Of course, many countries are not yet at the pre-crisis level, but there is another light at the end of the tunnel. The former PIIGS countries which did carry out the reforms are today the strongest growthers and are making the strongest progress. There's perspective and hope. Jobs and jobs and growth are created there. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, Greece stands. Greece, where reforms were carried out very limitedly. Yes, savings were made, but structural reforms were hardly carried out. However, even the limited reforms had an effect. Later on than with the other countries that reformed faster, there was another perspective in Greece at the end of 2014. There was economic growth again: 0,7%. That is a lot more in the third quarter than in Belgium. Belgium grew by 0.3 % and Greece by 0.7 %. There was growth, there was a primary budget surplus and Greece could finance itself on the market at a rate of 5%. But then, colleagues, the populists came from Syria. With the installation of the Tsipras government, hope was brutally crushed. Syriaza is actually an alliance, formed from, among other things, neo-communist ecological links and a division of the Communist Party of Greece. The Prime Minister spent his youth in Communist youth. Those are not normal parties, fellow Members. There are even Members of Parliament who claim to be a Stalinist. We know that history. The left-wing populist alliance thought that the money would just fall out of heaven and that one could continue to spend without savings or reforms. The few reforms implemented were reversed: additional officials were recruited, public expenditure was pushed up and the troika and the others who had to oversee the reforms were driven out of the country. War rhetoric became the tone. The consequences are therefore incalculable. The growth rate of 0,7 % in the fourth quarter of 2014 is today a contraction of 2%. From a growth rate of 0.7 % at the end of 2014 to a contraction of 2 %: one has to perform it! Syriza's account is immense. EUR 10 billion of gross national product went up in smoke, and every week in which banks remain closed, another EUR 5 billion will be added. Greece is a country that was able to finance itself on the market last year but today is in default, that cannot repay its debts and where people have to queue up at the ATM for a daily ration of EUR 60, a bit like one used to in Eastern Europe for food distribution. That is the situation in Greece today. That's the account Syriza left us. Nobody trusts that Greek government. The money was taken from the bank and the capital fled the country. The icing on the cake was a referendum, a referendum that was clearly not an act of democracy, but of demagogy. In Bloomberg it was clearly described as a self-inflicted act of economic vandalism. I can't put another word on that either. And yet, after a long flirtation with Putin, one more example of democracy is dared to draw the begging staff back to Europe. First one organises a referendum, sends a friendly f... you to all creditors who are creditors who are all of us, those are our taxpayers and at the same time one holds the begging hand. One has to dare. That's a breach of confidence. Who else would like to give such a country and such a government any credit? But that is the strength of the agreement that was concluded this weekend. It is an agreement, not so much a rescue plan to be implemented immediately, but an agreement that must above all restore confidence, confidence that has been violated by successive Greek governments, with Syria as the highlight. That confidence left on horseback and now has to come back with the wheelbarrow. It is an agreement that requires a number of reforms before we talk about spending taxpayers' money. A first set of reforms on pensions, taxes and budget was already adopted in the Greek Parliament yesterday. Most of these reforms are reforms that were previously agreed, but were either not implemented or reversed by Syriaza. A number of reforms will be added by next week, including the establishment of a rule of law that will effectively, quickly and efficiently enforce contracts between citizens and businesses. In this way, there can be renewed investment and new growth and jobs. A further reform will be adopted this week to ensure the recovery and resolution of banks. This is a problem which is particularly acute in Greece. There is no way that taxpayers can be blamed for saving the banks.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-16-54-plenair-ip064x.u4	Mr Dedecker, for four years these recipes have been applied by the troika in Greece. The result today is that the debt has reached 180 % of GDP. Can you tell me why the recipes that have not worked for four years will still work today?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-16-54-plenair-ip064x.u5	Mr Hedebouw, I do not think you listened very carefully to what I said. The recipes that were successful in so many other countries were hardly applied in Greece and when applied, they were reversed. A wonderful example is Latvia. I was in Riga a few weeks ago as part of the European Summit. Latvia is a former Soviet country. In 2007, Latvia was particularly affected by the European crisis. GDP fell by a quarter, with 25% in one blow. The same form of aid was requested and the same measures were imposed. Today Latvia is standing again. Latvia was among the strongest growthers in Europe in 2012 and 2013, Mr Hedebouw. There's perspective back there. The measures work, but one must dare to implement them. That was the fundamental problem in Greece. Ladies and gentlemen, these measures must therefore be implemented before the first euro is paid out. That is why the troika returns, never completely gone, your favourite troika, Mr Hedebouw, to ensure that the reforms in the field are actually implemented. Therefore, privatisations are carried out by placing assets in a separate privatisation fund, to have a stick behind the door and to create space for private initiatives and investment. It seems that we really need that stick in order for the Greeks to act. Yes, they go a lot further than the previous reform. That was necessary, too. The damage done by Syria was also immense. Reforms need to be tailored to this. Are those extreme neoliberals, if you'd like to use that swear word? No, I don't think so. There was unanimity with seven socialist leaders and the socialist president of the eurogroup. You really can't call it the left or the extreme right. They are balanced measures. I am also pleased, ladies and gentlemen, that yesterday the Greek Parliament decided to avoid a Grexit. This honours them, but now the most difficult part comes, in particular the responsibility to implement effectively the measures and obligations associated with monetary union, if not the discussion about a possible Grexit will never be resolved. This responsibility lies entirely in the hands of the Greek Government. Minister, do the measures adopted yesterday in the Greek Parliament meet the conditions agreed to continue the talks and restore confidence? It is of the utmost importance for my party to draw a line here today. It is now really up to Greece to prove it and restore or lose the trust of all Europeans. That ball is in the Greek camp.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-16-54-plenair-ip064x.u6	Mr President, Prime Minister, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, in pain and tear, under the booses of angry demonstrators, the Greek Parliament approved the "Agreekment". I want to greet before you the courage of Alexis Tsipras, who dared to clash with some of his supporters to honour the commitments made on behalf of Greece. In paying tribute to him, I would like to remind him that he took office on 26 January, less than seven months ago, by a democratic vote, Mr Dedecker, with great hope for the Greek citizens. Hope for the return of a decent job, hope for young people to have something other than the street as a life project and hope for businesses to have an oxygen bubble for internal consumption, exports and production to start again. But Greece, as we know, has a debt of 327 billion euros, or 175% of its GDP. The country of which Tsipras inherits is in poor condition: 36 per cent of people are in poverty or social exclusion, including a 44 per cent increase in the number of young people between the ages of 15 and 29 in this situation; 26.5 per cent in unemployment rates. More than 30 per cent of businesses have closed since 2010 and there has been an 84 per cent decrease in building activities. This situation of quasi-bankruptcy is the result of a double responsibility. Of course, political, economic and social actors in Greece have a direct responsibility for this disaster. We can't pretend they couldn't do anything, as if they weren't responsible for anything. That's not possible. But in the same way, the responsibility of the creditors and also of the European institutions is overwhelming. Of course, the successive rescue plans have allowed private banks to be recapitalised, but we can all see that the austerity measures that have been imposed have had disastrous consequences. The Greek public debt has exploded. The country has entered a deadly spiral of economic recession and the Greek people are suffering greatly. In my view, this responsibility of the European institutions has been far too hidden, far too killed, far too obscured in the last negotiations, and the creditors have acted as if the lessons of the past were not to be learned, proposing an agreement that, as it is – and I will say then why I use the phrase "as it is" – I find bad for the future of Greece. Of course, the deal has advantages. He avoided Greece's exit from the euro area, which would have had disastrous economic consequences, but also geopolitical extensions that could have undermined the balance of forces on the European continent and the European struggle for peace. In this respect, Mr Minister of Finance, I would have liked to hear you exclude from the outset the prospect of a Grexit, as your French colleague has done in particular. I believe that, since you did not exclude it from the outset, you have committed a fault that is a rejuvenation of the country. Another advantage of the agreement is in the amount of the loan and stability, with three years of secure financing rather than cascading interventions with pressure in exchange for loan payments. This, it is true, provides more security for economic and social development initiatives. Finally, a third advantage is the $35 billion stimulus fund. It's not nothing to support demand and investment. However, the agreement is bad in more than one way. Since Monday, I have hardly heard any economist defend him. Instead, they practiced an escalation of virulent criticism. Experts from all sides – right and left – have been heard saying the words "delighting", "unrealism", etc. In particular, they highlight the fact that tax increases and budget cuts will, through their recessive effect, mechanically inflate Greece's already huge public debt. The IMF is talking about a debt that is no longer sustainable, especially since it would explode to reach 200 per cent of GDP in two years. The European Commission itself places short-term growth between -2 and -4 %. And I'm not talking about what the Greeks are going to do in terms of social despair. Perhaps the first merit of the agreement is to at last clearly and publicly question the dogma of austerity, which you, members of the majority, so much believe. I hope, for my part, that a wave of citizen shock will continue the work of challenging this dogma that the conservatives of all sides so appreciate. Ladies and gentlemen, several well-informed observers – still today, the Nobel Prize-winning Stiglitz in Liberation – wanted to recall the lessons of history, including the 1919 Treaty of Versailles. When you put a country on your knees, the consequences in terms of revolt can be immense. To avoid it, you still have some cards in hand. I would like you to make strong statements today about the Greek debt. What will be the timetable for negotiations, of course, but above all what position will Belgium stand for: reduction or rescheduling? Similarly, with regard to the stimulus fund, when and how can fresh money counter the recessive effects? What is Belgium's position? I believe we have the right to have explanations on this. Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the agreement we are discussing has been widely commented on through social networks, through the media and through experts. The hashtag "It's a coup" had been retweeted hundreds of thousands of times. This indicates that the agreement was perceived by many Europeans as excessive violence. The international press also commented extensively on the agreement. I was surprised by the German press, which was of rare violence. I quote a few headlines from German daily newspapers: "Schäuble is the face of the heartless Germans", "The agreement is the image of a ugly, vile and dry-hearted Germany", "It is a catalogue of horrors intended to humiliate Greece". The overwhelming majority is therefore indignant. In addition to the criticisms of economists, many experts have called for a change of regime in the euro area. They insisted at the institutional level on the disastrous spectacle given by the current institutions. This is a second merit of the agreement: in addition to calling into question the dogma of austerity, it finally revives the whole debate on the future of the euro area. The PS, like other convinced Europeans, calls for a genuine euro area government, with democratic legitimacy through the control of a euro area parliament, which has real powers of control, a real budget as well, a capacity for intervention in fiscal but also social convergence. This debate is a matter of great urgency. I would like to hear the government's views on the future of the euro area. In conclusion, the word "Europe" has long been synonymous with hope. It's a word that's made generations dream. More and more, alas, especially among young people, Europe is seen as a naughty word. She makes negative images and hope is no longer there. In The Little Prince, Saint Exupéry says about dreams: "Make the dream devour your life so that life does not devour your dream". The sclerosis of the institutions, the brutal dogma of austerity, may well devour the European dream. It's up to you to choose, it's up to us to choose!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-16-54-plenair-ip064x.u7	Mr President, Prime Minister, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the Reform Movement – I will not surprise anyone – welcomes the conclusion of the agreement between Greece and the European institutions. Belgium wanted this agreement. Our Prime Minister, Charles Michel and our Minister of Finance had committed themselves to this, and we can all see today that they have kept their word. You were at the meeting, Prime Minister and Minister of Finance, at a particularly acute moment of crisis, as the European Union, and that is part of its nature, knows this repeatedly. Faced with these constraints, our country, the founding member of the Union, was able to play its full role because the Belgian political line was clear: to keep Greece within the euro area. This was the objective, with respect for European rules and the credibility of the common currency as a vehicle for the growth of our economy. The aim was to ensure that the euro area could be preserved in its unity, in its viability, with the practical implementation of principles of solidarity and responsibility. Indeed, our national destiny is fully in line – we are convinced – with the success of the European project. Prime Minister, on the basis of this consistent and consistent political line, you have been able to take all your responsibilities for the government, for our country, for European citizens and for Greek citizens in particular. You have done so in a spirit of composure and with a sense of European interest in order to forge, together with your most committed partners, a balanced compromise bringing together in a common position the views of all the heads of state of the euro area, all political trends combined. Mr President, we hope that this agreement will restore confidence between Greece and its European partners. This confidence was, however, still to be seen, close to absolute zero at the beginning of the European Council on Sunday. It was therefore necessary to work to rebuild the foundations of this trust. Too many opportunities had been missed. Too much time had been lost. You are right, Mrs Onkelinx, there are also responsibilities on the European side. This confidence, ladies and gentlemen, can only be rebuilt through the implementation of the measures provided for in each of them. That is what this agreement provides for, which is a long-term agreement, with several stages. This was recalled: Greece had access, through the 2010 and 2012 adjustment plans, to EUR 110 billion and EUR 130 billion. It will once again be able to count on just over €80 billion over three years and €35 billion through the European budget by 2020. Moreover, the need, which the IMF has just stressed, for a restructuring of the Greek debt, which now stands at 180 per cent of its GDP, is recognised. This reorganisation will, as planned, involve the extension of the drafts and the reduction of interest rates. Greece will be able to benefit from bridge financing to meet the commitments with the closest deadlines. But in order to realize this confidence, Greece must commit itself seriously, without weakness, to implementing a series of reforms that are essential for reviving its economy, including rebuilding its tax administration. So you have to be able to keep a true language. And it must be recognised that the vote that took place yesterday in the Greek Parliament is in this direction. These measures were imposed for two main reasons. Firstly, because they have been included in the political programmes of the Greek parties for several years. Unfortunately, however, the successive coalitions, all of which were formed, did not have the courage to implement them after the elections. It's a truth. The Greek government must now implement reforms and translate them into draft legislation. The vote of some of them has already begun. Secondly, these measures concerning pensions, the banking system, the implementation of European directives, the proper and fair collection of taxes and therefore the fight against tax fraud must be implemented by all European States. It is therefore also a matter of respect for the other nations that make up the euro area, those that were the most reluctant – we will perhaps see during parliamentary debates in other countries – and that demanded a number of guarantees. Then, out of love for Greece, of its history, of its philosophers – to whom I am very attached – we cannot sweep away the efforts that other European peoples (Finnish, German, Spanish and Belgian) have made and are making to strengthen their socio-economic model. The establishment of the euro area requires discipline and rigour on the part of its members. Observing the rules of the euro area, preserving the strength and international credibility of the single currency also means ensuring that recovery measures for growth and stability can be taken. Greece wants to stay in the euro area. Yesterday's vote in the Greek Parliament bears witness to this, a vote that goes beyond left/right political divisions, a vote that brings together representatives of the Greek people. Another choice was not desirable, but it was possible: Greece's exit from the euro area, whose disastrous consequences for Greece, the Greeks and the European Union are not yet fully measured! Mr Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, you are aware that we must now look beyond the Greek crisis. All the consequences must be lucidly drawn and European integration pursued. This is the wish of the Reform Movement. Our country, a founding member of the Union, has a special role to play. We need to draw a new stage of construction. You are right, Mrs Onkelinx, we must also see what has happened and learn from it, in particular by strengthening the monetary area. But I would like, from the outset, to warn those who speak of constraints, of loss of sovereignty. European integration is a process of transfer of sovereignty that Member States want. You mustn't be afraid of it. It must be framed, supported, developed and advanced. This is why a reflection must begin to quickly stop a number of measures without getting lost in the institutional pipeline, in order to strengthen the governance of the euro area and, in the medium term, go beyond the current treaties. This is also the meaning of the proposals made by Guy Verhofstadt, on behalf of the Liberals of the European Parliament: completion of the banking union, the government of the euro area, the code of economic convergence, coordination of economic policies, further opening up of the internal market, fiscal and social harmonisation, the budget of the euro area, the creation of a depreciation fund in order to jointly manage the stock of debt exceeding 60% of GDP for each euro area country. One dimension is of particular interest to me. It is necessary to strengthen parliamentary control of the euro area by involving European and national parliamentarians, to try to put in place the mechanisms that will allow this control and to go beyond the conference provided for by simple fiscal pacts. Is there a need for a parliament in the euro area? The question deserves to be asked, and I leave it to those who are directly confronted with all of these issues to answer. These measures are known, ladies and gentlemen. We must have the political courage to implement them, and I am convinced that the momentum is ahead of us. It is through this process that the European Union, beyond the scrupulous implementation of the agreement reached by the Heads of State of the euro area, will be able to emerge victorious from this crisis. This is the wish of the Reform Movement. Any economic and social, fiscal or other measures can be taken, but that is not what will create citizens' support for the European project. It is now important, as a matter of urgency, to give the European project the basis for the cultural adherence of the European peoples to the European idea. Prime Minister, European governments now have two obligations. Firstly, they must show the Greek people that their parliament, the Greek parliament, was right to have the political courage to vote yes yesterday. Secondly, they must show European citizens that helping a Greek citizen is helping a European citizen, that is helping all European citizens!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-16-54-plenair-ip064x.u8	Mr President, I will not go on party political or ideological tour in my speech, but place the current crisis in its historical context and draw some conclusions from it. Europe is a generous project, the most generous of the 20th century, and expresses the will of European peoples to jointly develop their future. In 1981 I was in the European Parliament when Greece joined as the tenth Member State. After the military regime, there was a tremendous relief in Parliament that Greece joined the European Community. For years the European Community has been particularly supportive of the major problems which Greece had at the time and has given massive support. One of the founding fathers of Europe, Jean Monnet, said that political cooperation and solidarity are best promoted by a common economic policy, hence the ECSC in 1952, then the customs union and also the single market of Jacques Delors, the President of the European Commission who has done a tremendous job of this. In 1999, there was a quantum leap towards European monetary integration. This was the result of intense cooperation between France and Germany, with Valéry Giscard d'Estaing and Helmut Schmidt in the 1970s and Helmut Kohl and François Mitterrand in the 1980s. It is that axis that has made monetary integration possible and made the single currency an important project and has finally linked the European Member States through the currency. However, there was a construction error in that single currency which led to the first Greek crisis in February 2010. There was insufficient coordination of economic policies. Forty years ago, in 1975, I made a doctorate. Its title was European monetary integration and the United Kingdom's problem of joining a European integration process. In that doctorate I pointed out that with the balance of payments problems that Britain had in the 1970s, high inflation and heavy public debt, Britain had a difficult transition period to join the currency union and demanded a great deal of solidarity from the other Member States that were then in the European Monetary System. Well, the mistake that was made in 1999-2000 is that there has been insufficient coordination of economic policies. This was corrected in 2010, first with the Banking Union but also with the Stability and Growth Pact, with tight rules on budgetary policies and macroeconomic objectives. The Stability and Growth Pact has also been approved in this House. It involves a great transfer of sovereignty, economic governance, think of the six pack, think of the two pack. We have also signed a treaty here in connection with the European permanent stability mechanism. This makes it possible to finance emergency aid but on the condition that reforms are carried out and that savings are made, that there is an austerity policy. No austerity without solidarity. That was the basis of the two treaties we approved here in the Belgian Parliament. They formed the basis of the negotiations that took place at European level this weekend. Negotiations were conducted by the ECB, the IMF, the European Commission, the Troika, but also by the summit of European Heads of Government within the context of these treaties. Without these treaties and without respect for them, a socio-economic and certainly financial and monetary policy is not possible. If one deviates from this a la tête du client, the whole system collapses. That was actually the great task they stood for. It was very difficult to come to an agreement there because Greece, I hear certain interventions here, have not complied with the 2010 agreements. They have not taken the measures that had to be taken. There's been bad governance, not only in the last six months, but in the last ten years. The people are not to blame for that. Of course, the last few months have also made promises that could not be kept, and it has been proposed as if those recovery programmes had been implemented, which was not the case. That is actually the substance of the matter. The other 18 euro countries have shown solidarity. EUR 300 billion went to Greece. In 2011, 30% of the public debt was waived by private investors. A new recovery programme of EUR 80 to 85 billion has now been launched. One thing is clear: making more debts is not an option. The debts must be brought under control. That is actually the philosophy of the Stability and Growth Pact. No growth without stability! This stability must be based on reforms, but also on unpopular measures. Some countries, such as Spain and Portugal, have taken unpopular measures and have had to justify certain demagogues. In the long run, this is the only way out. The fact that a few percent purchasing power is lost is true, but in the long term, if the European project can safeguard and increase a lot of purchasing power, then that is the focus of the debate. We also experienced this in the 1980s, when it was also handed in in the short term, which led to long-term results. Mrs Almaci, we must not follow the path of the demagogues and of the cowards who have led people on the wrong track, but we must tell the European people honestly what it is about. I believe that this weekend's agreement is a very important element of that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-16-54-plenair-ip064x.u9	Mr Van Rompuy, I agree with you that we must be honest. Let us then be honest about the results of the policy of austerity throughout Europe. In Spain, Portugal, Latvia and Ireland, poverty has exploded, young people are emigrating in bushes and unemployment rates are immensely high. Mr Van Rompuy, I challenge you to look at the budgetary situation in Spain. I understand the nervousness of today's Prime Minister Rajoy because he has failed to do so and has not so far been pricked by Europe but has seen another group rise to fight against austerity policy. It is not now recognised that the recipes of recent years have not worked, but the danger is that Europe is threatening. That is the danger posed by the European project of peace, freedom and democracy. Invoking democracy in the name of democracy is not working! It has not worked for Europe, and certainly not for European citizens. In 2006 they voted away the Constitution in European referendums. They only got more austerity. I am not in favour of a Europe of austerity. I stand for a Europe of ordinary citizens, and for recipes that work. I'm not in debt. I'm not Syriza's friend. I do believe that reform is necessary. It is very clear, however, that those recipes that are now being made as if they can simply continue to work with them are not put forward by any economist as a credible alternative. No economist thinks this is a good agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-16-54-plenair-ip064x.u10	Mr President, when I made my PhD in 1976 as an economist, Milton Friedman, the winner of the Nobel Prize for Economics, was the great man. He said that controlling the money supply and the current exchange rates could revive the entire economic system and create prosperity. Those who followed Friedman and exalted him as a magnificent economist have now become the neo-keynesians. Ma'am, don't play party politics. The neo-keynesians advocate what you really want. The European Stability and Growth Pact has established a manageable control of a debt economy. That is why an emergency fund has been created with conditions of recovery. That is the line Europe is following. To say that there are painless remedies and that a country's debts can be dismissed, that is demagogy. Those who lose one country's debts must, of course, do the same for other countries. The European construction is precisely that there is a joint project in which decisions are taken jointly, that institutions have gone through legislation and that regulations have to be respected. This agreement is, of course, fragile and nothing guarantees that we can achieve greater economic growth or debt repayment in the following months or years. This is not a law of Medes and Persians. Economy is not an exact science, but depends on people and institutions. Moreover, nothing is irreversible, not even in the economy. What is clear is that the path of responsibility has now been shown. Now there are more guarantees that Greece, such as Spain and Portugal, will take that road earlier, as well as the road of austerity. Solidarity is guaranteed. Europe has always been built step by step. We must ensure that everyone can come along in the long term, such as an ever-closer union. Then everyone has to follow the rules of the game. The Christian Democrats have always fought for a federal Europe. I hear Mrs Onkelinx now calling for more powers at European level, that socio-economic and fiscal policies should be pursued more at European level. Europe has 28 Member States, the euro area 18. It is therefore necessary to accept that a particular policy should be implemented and not reviewed à la tête du client. I regret that the policy that has been pursued in recent years, with a strengthening of coordination, is currently being called into question. Intergovernmental Europe has taken its responsibilities. It used to be Schmidt and Giscard d'Estaing, Kohl and Mitterrand, and now Michel, Merkel and Hollande. France and Germany took the lead. One is a socialist, the other is a Christian Democrat. In the times of Mitterrand and Kohl this was the same. It was the same with Schmidt and Giscard d'Estaing. Despite the political differences that exist between the North and the South, between France and Germany, between us and other countries in Europe, agreements have always been reached. We Christian Democrats have been driving Europe with Leo Tindemans and then with Wilfried Martens, Jean-Luc Dehaene and Herman Van Rompuy. On the socialist side there were Jacques Delors and Karel Van Miert. From the liberal side there were Guy Verhofstadt and Louis Michel. These are all people who have taken responsibility at European level. I regret that there is no consensus in this House anymore, that the European policy that Belgium has always pursued is broken for purely party political reasons. You are now walking with demagogy and populism in the wake of a number of communist sympathizers in Greece. The question has been asked as to whether this debate actually made sense. Of course this debate makes sense. We are showing that a majority is in favour of the government, the Prime Minister, the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Foreign Affairs. We support this policy. For us, the Grexit would be a political failure for Europe. We support the Belgian Government because if the euro fails, Europe will fail. Mr Hedebouw, when I watched television yesterday, I noticed that some forces are at work and some people want to destroy the euro. I am thinking, for example, of the Greek President of Parliament, Mrs Zoe Konstantopoulou. They want to destroy the euro. They really want the end of the euro with all the chaos that that entails. They want to return to national currencies. This generous project will not be destroyed by a number of marginal figures in a number of countries. The construction of Europe, which has been so difficult for 40 years, and the consensus that has always prevailed in this House, over the parties, will not be destroyed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-16-54-plenair-ip064x.u11	Mr President, I ask for the floor for a personal fact. Mr Van Rompuy, you are lying when you say that Mrs Konstantopoulou is in favour of leaving the euro. You know very well that during the negotiations between the Greek Government and the Eurogroup, from the outset, the Greek side said that it wanted to remain in the euro but on condition that it could revive its economy. It is the European authorities themselves that have clearly negotiated a Grexit in the event that Greece does not accept all of its conditions. When you sell us here that you still believe in the European dream, you lie! You want a liberal Europe, an austere Europe, in which people are imprisoned, but you no longer want a Europe of solidarity. This austere Europe, we do not want it!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-16-54-plenair-ip064x.u12	Mr President, Prime Minister, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I seem to have missed something in Mr Van Rompuy's speech. He was talking about a gang of marginals. You feel addressed, Mr Hedebouw, but he did not mention you at all. I don't understand why you're reacting so violently to that. The important thing, ladies and gentlemen, is that very few people are openly arguing for a Grexit. No one wants it. That's the first point I want to make. Everyone wants to preserve Greece in the euro area. [[Objection]] Not even Schäuble. You interpret it differently. But Schäuble, together with Merkel, has taken up his responsibility. They made the deal last weekend. That is not an agreement of Schäuble and Merkel alone, it is an agreement of all the Heads of State or Government of the euro area, without any distinction. Stop trying to divise it all the time. The agreement binds all those involved, who had a common will, to the survival of the euro. Mr Hedebouw, if one belongs to a club, joins the euro and has to defend a single currency, then the chain is only as strong as the weakest link, then one can not only have the benefits of the single currency, but also the fact that all Member States must make common efforts. So I do not understand that, on the one hand, we are arguing for the maintenance of the euro, which I consider to be quite normal, but, on the other hand, some Member States, and Greece in the lead, have hesitated for months and years to implement the reforms that were agreed upon. What are these reforms? This is the second point I want to make. Reforms are more than just reforms based on budgetary criteria or the criteria of the Stability Pact. Indeed, Europe is too closely associated with and united as a budgetary authority to monitor public debt..................................................................................................................................................................................................................... If we want to be part of a single currency union, we must ensure that economic convergence can be achieved. Mr Van Rompuy is right about this. A construction error has crept into the euro. At some point, a single currency has emerged for Member States which had enormous differences in their economic competitiveness and capacity for action. Once the single currency is in place, a number of monetary instruments, which have existed in the past, such as the devaluation of the currency, are no longer possible. What efforts were agreed? It was not just about Australia, about austerity, about savings, but also about economic reforms. The Greek government had to ensure that it is effectively a government that can collect its taxes. I have asked the question whether there is anything against that. That government had to ask itself whether it could not become slimmer and more efficient. Public enterprises could be privatised, not only because of the proceeds of such privatisation, but also to increase the efficiency of the companies. Mr Hedebouw, the loss of a number of monopolies and oligopoly, ensure that everyone in Greece can have free access to all professions and put an end to the blocking of certain professions, the fight against corruption and against clientelism, which were not simply imposed, they were agreed. But the Greek political leaders have failed to implement that. That's not just Syria's responsibility. That was the nec plus ultra. How, on the one hand, can one choose a currency in the European Union that symbolises the free movement of people, goods, services and capital, and, on the other hand, go to the electorate with a Marxist project? How can we say that we want to preserve the euro and at the same time establish a Marxist regime? I don't think those two are compatible with each other. I do not go back too far in history, but one should look at who has had political responsibility in Greece over the last 20 to 30 years. These policy makers have a crushing political responsibility for the economic situation in which the country is today. We shouldn't be playing the game here with who we associate with. I read on Knack's website that Mrs Temmerman's group is moving towards Syria and Podemos and that she feels the most related to it. I'll almost think the greens are becoming the moderate left. In any case, the question has been asked whether they would also approach you. So Sp.a and the PvdA are a front in Flanders. By the way, I did appreciate Mrs Onkelinx' very nuanced discourse, because she was using a different approach, and I will come back to that in a moment. If measures are necessary and if they have been politically agreed, it is unacceptable for one country to say that it is not implementing them. Then where is your solidarity? I asked Mr Van der Maelen indirectly this morning on the radio. Where is your solidarity with the Spaniards? Where is your solidarity with the Portuguese? Where is your solidarity with the Irish? How will you explain to them that they have completed their part of the contract, but that one Member State can say that it does not care, that it only takes the pleasure and fits the burden? We cannot do that and we cannot keep the eurozone alive. But of course there is the construction error and it has to be repaired. We in Europe have actually done the opposite of what the Americans have done. The Americans have moved from a federal structure to a federal structure. We still have intergovernmental realities, that is to say we need 19 Heads of State or Government to find a consensus. One should be able to go to a federal structure, to a federal decision-making capacity. It is not healthy to always have a consensus on 19 or 28 in non-monetary matters. The Americans, of course, first brought about a convergence of their economy, a thesauri, a treasury and then a currency. In Europe, we have done the opposite. We introduced the currency first. We had the Maastricht criteria, the stability criteria. Let me say that no Member State has ever respected these criteria, not even Germany at the time. And we said the rest would come on its own. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the rest will not come naturally. Better convergence of the European economy is a common responsibility. The differences that exist today, between some of the Member States, are huge and cannot be sustained. If we look at the difference between the Greek and German economies, but I can give you other examples, then we can see that this is impossible to sustain and that convergence needs to be pursued. What have we done so far? There were the semester, the six-pack, the recommendations we get from the European Union, which are the subject of a political debate, but which cannot be imposed in a mandatory manner. So that's what it's going to be about in the next few weeks and months. Mr Prime Minister and Minister for Finance, let me be very clear, you have taken your political responsibility, but the way it has happened does not deserve a beauty prize. You haven't been given much choice either. What exactly is the role of the ECB? Who's checking out what? What exactly is the role of the International Monetary Fund? We come to the conclusion that the Heads of State or Government have reached an agreement, but there are major shortcomings in the machinery. What we in Europe must now stand for, and in that sense I have appreciated Mr Hollande's discourse, is a new European Convention. We must be able to reach new agreements. We need to be able to move away from the gratuitous nature of the European Semester and from the so-called six pack, and come up with a package of measures that effectively align all these economies and bring better convergence. We must come to a true European thesis. We need to establish a European Department of Finance. Who's gonna check that out? That is also a point I want to make. Let us stop playing the game in order to identify the good and the bad in each Member State. Who do we sympathize with? Who did good? Which parties were on this side or that side? The European Parliament must be given greater control over this matter. 'Cause what do I establish? I'm looking at Mrs. Almaci right now. I understand that the Greens in Germany will defend and approve Mrs Merkel's policy because they are afraid that in the other case the skeptics of the Christian Democrats are going to put the project at risk and there are indeed some in Mrs Merkel's party. The Greens in Germany support the solution that has been worked out, but here the Greens will say: we do not agree, because the measures imposed are far too strict. Mr van der Maelen, there are also socialist parties in the European Union who take full responsibility, and there are others who do not. This is the case when European politics are used or abused for short-sighted electoral internal politics. That's gotta be done now. We must indeed ensure that European solutions are worked out and that the authority where they need to be checked becomes more and more the European Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-16-54-plenair-ip064x.u13	It is funny to hear Mr Dewael talk about the German Greens because yesterday I had a teleconference from Athens with all the Green Presidents of the whole of Europe. The German Greens have said that they will show solidarity with the Greek Greens, that they find the recipe of austerity totally unacceptable and unfair, but that they will, of course, approve some Greece and the Greek Parliament with the knife on the throat and the back against the wall. However, that is something other than approving what Mrs Merkel and Mr Schäuble have pushed through. I understand, of course, that you're trying to set up a whole story here. Mr Van Rompuy just called not to fall into party politics and you want to use that trick now. In any case, as Greens, we can say that we share the same opinion across Europe. That does not apply to all other parties.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-16-54-plenair-ip064x.u14	I will look forward with interest to what the Greens are doing in the German Parliament. Mrs Almaci, stop saying that these are the solutions of Mrs Merkel and Mr Schäuble alone. Stop making a caricature of the fact that 19 Heads of State or Government reached an agreement on a particular way of tackling this issue in great consensus and solidarity. You are trying to hand out cards here as Mr Van Overtveldt was now closer to Mr Schäuble. Mr Michel was not in another place. What kind of childish politician is that now? Is that a grown-up way of doing politics now? I have quoted this as an example because I say that this cannot be achieved by once again having such a summit in the various parliaments of the Member States. It is good that we are having a debate on this, but the real democratic deficit lies in the fact that there is no common European approach and that this European policy, that European thesauri and that European monetary policy cannot be the subject of scrutiny by the European Parliament. Mr President, I will conclude. I believe that if I say Europe, Europe needs it, I mean the euro in an economic and political context. Never waste a good crisis . Crisises are challenges said André Leysen blissier. Let us make use of this moment to do so. We should have a politically responsible euro government, enforceable economic convergence and a budget for Europe worthy of that name. This would strengthen the economy of all euro area countries, and that would also strengthen democracy and transparency at national and European level. That is the commitment of the new European convention that is in the making. The Liberals, as always, will support this.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-16-54-plenair-ip064x.u15	Mr President, I am pleased that we have the opportunity to debate, unfortunately far too little. Monday there was a mini-debate of 1 hour and 15 minutes, today gets every 10 minutes. We in Parliament need to think about how we can deal more with European dossiers. I will talk about what I believe should be the essence of the debate. The government has taken a decision at European level on a very difficult dossier. There are two questions. Firstly, what is the quality of the work done? How do we evaluate the agreement? Secondly, what role has our country played in establishing the European Consensus? As a member of a constructive opposition party, I would also like to add a third point, namely what lessons my group thinks we should learn from the events of recent months. First, I'll deal with the quality of the agreement. Prime Minister, I'm picking up where you left it on Monday. At the end of the debate, you said: 'This is an agreement that gives hope and optimism to Greece and Europe'. The opposition must always be critical. I'm not convinced, and I'm not alone with that opinion. This criticism is dismissed by saying that the opposition never agrees. I could give you a long list of economists who believe that the agreement concluded is highly questionable. Vandaag in Le Monde: "delusive, unrealistic". Krugman, De Grauwe and others. I shall read you one long quote, Prime Minister. I hope you will reply to what someone like Stiglitz says about this agreement. Stiglitz is a Nobel Prize winner in economics and former head economist of the World Bank. I admit that he is someone who knows much more about economics than I do or anyone else in this room. I will do it in French, Prime Minister, because I hope it will come through better. I have not yet received an answer from you which allows me to say that you are right and not Stiglitz. Ik lees voor: We will continue to impose models that are counterproductive, ineffective and producers of injustice and inequality. The recent history of Greece has proved this. And this will continue to amplify the depression in a country that has experienced a 25% drop in GDP over the past five years. By the way, I know no other example of a depression that would have been so deliberately created and whose human consequences would have been so catastrophic." On Monday morning's agreement: 'Et on en remet une couche encore plus humiliante'. I have another quote, much shorter, from Koen Schoors, someone known as moderate. He was very brief about the agreement in his evaluation: "The behaviour of the eurogroup is crapulous. The conditions laid down are crapular. So, Prime Minister, when you come to this gallery, try to convince me and all the members of this committee against the opinion of Stiglitz and Koen Schoors that this is indeed, as you say, an agreement that offers hope and optimism to the Greeks and to Greece. Then there is our other minister who has played a role in this European decision-making, Minister Van Overtveldt. When I also referred to those economists on Friday, your laconic answer was that the IMF approved the agreement and that there are smart economists there. That is correct, Mr Van Overtveldt, but since Monday you have had a huge problem. Since Monday, we know that the IMF has published a report on the agreement reached in your eurogroup on Sunday morning, which only talked about debt restructuring in relation to the Grexit. So only if there was a Grexit could there be talk of a debt restructuring. That's the agreement you've been following. Of this agreement, the IMF, the other smart economists, says that we will never be able to solve Greece's problems without debt restructuring. They even speak of debt cancellation as a second option or of a transfer union where the amounts go to the Greek citizens as a third option. You will also have the opportunity, Mr Finance Minister, after not only those economists who are Nobel Prize winners, but also the IMF say that the agreement of the euro group is not going to last. Whatever bothers me, and you did so a few times last Friday, is this. You said that we should all do this because Greece did not want to reform in the past. I shall begin with Mr Dewael and others who have said in this gallery that there is still a need for reform in Greece and that there is no problem. Syriaza may still be the best placed party to tackle the problem of the sick relationship between a political elite and an economic elite in Greece. That was that country's disease. There's corruption. That needs to be addressed. However, Mr Minister of Finance, as you did last Friday, pretending that nothing has happened in Greece in the last five years has not yet been reformed, is far beyond that. Let me give you three examples. The first, the easiest, the lazy Greeks. That is something that is often claimed by some right-wing populists. Look at Eurostat's statistics. The average working time in Greece is higher than the European average. Another example is the shortage. Between 2009 and 2014, Greece reduced its deficit from 15% to 2%. No state in the European Union and in the euro area has reduced its deficit by so much in that period in five years. Third, save it. Do you know how much Greece saved between 2009 and 2014? 47 billion euros! One of our finance minister's preferred countries is Ireland. Do you know how much has been saved in Ireland during that same period? Ten billion euros! Mr Dewael and others, we are as good Europeans as you are. But we say that Europe is using the mistakes and the wrong recipes to tackle the problems of the economic crisis since 2009 in Europe, but also in Greece and other countries. The ultra-savings aren't working. We do not want to see it, and we do not want to acknowledge it. It might change. We have just mentioned the differences between the United States and Europe. There is also a difference in dealing with the economic crisis. That is where they believe that growth must be created first, in order to adapt the debt problem with that growth. According to German dogmatism, German fundamentalism, Protestant moralism, perhaps I do not know what to call it. People have to bleed first. We'll be out if there's ever a growth. Greece's GDP has fallen by 25% over the last five years. Please, a little humility and a little modesty. It takes intellectual and political courage. After you frame everything, it's hard to get out. Luckily, there's the big brother from America. In the German press, it says that the US Finance Minister spoke to Minister Schäuble today. He has done the Germans a lot of American displeasure about the way Europe, equals Germany, tackles the crisis. Mr. Dewael said the Grexit was off the job. Did you read in the German newspapers this morning that before he saw the US Finance Minister, Schäuble said that the Grexit is actually a better solution? In the German Government there are even many who are of that opinion. However, now that he has spoken with the great American brother, he has said for the first time that debt cancellation cannot, according to the treaties, but that stalling over time and a moratorium on payment can be done. I have to make a statement which is very surprising to me: for the first time, I am defending a position shared by the IMF and the United States. That's not common either. The IMF condemns last weekend's agreement and calls on the United States to change Europe's economic recipe for tackling the crisis. I hope you will. I come to my final point: what lessons should we learn from this? For the benefit of Mr Cd&V's colleagues, I quote Helmut Kohl: 'It is absurd to think that an economic and monetary union can work without a political union.' Let us draw that conclusion. Let us work towards that. I hope the government does. Two things are essential to me. Firstly, there must be social convergence in Europe. It is the absence of that social Europe that is causing us to see the social deficit in Europe now openly and openly. The way in which the Greeks are dealt with is unworthy of Europe, ladies and gentlemen. How deep do you have to go down there? There are people who don't get any more medicine. Millions of people are being thrown into poverty. The number of suicides has increased enormously. That is unworthy of Europe. Secondly, with regard to the democratic deficit,... (The President taps the hammer) I am sorry, Mr President, but I am not going to care about your knocking.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-16-54-plenair-ip064x.u16	Mr van der Maelen, we will not be making any further appointments. Mr van der Maelen, you have already spoken for the longest time, and that is not the first time. The agreement on speaking time also applies to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-16-54-plenair-ip064x.u17	Not only do we get ten minutes of speaking time from this majority, but we cannot even vote on it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-16-54-plenair-ip064x.u18	Mr Van der Maelen, this was not the agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-16-54-plenair-ip064x.u19	The Eurozone Council needs to get out. That Eurozone Council is an institution which does not exist under treaty law, which is accountable to no one and which does not even exist in reports. I shall now come to my final point.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-16-54-plenair-ip064x.u20	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-16-54-plenair-ip064x.u21	We cannot cover the attitude of that minister in the Eurozone Council. He claims to have fought the Grexit, but here are the Financial Times, Le Monde and The Guardian who all say that that finance minister was in the hawks' camp on the side of Germany.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-16-54-plenair-ip064x.u22	Mr President, it was agreed at the Conference of Presidents that each group should have ten minutes' speaking time. I am somewhat surprised to hear Mr Van der Maelen say that he does not care. I thought that agreement would also apply to his group.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-16-54-plenair-ip064x.u23	Mr President, Prime Minister, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, ecologists wanted this debate in plenary because we believe that we are living in some of the darkest hours in the history of the European Union. One country, one of us, Greece, is at the edge of the abyss. We know it, we see it, but they live it. Forty per cent of children now live below the poverty line. Fifty per cent of young people are now unemployed. More than the decisions that were taken on Sunday, what is unbearable to ecologists is the double spectacle, on the one hand, of a demonstration of the strength of the euro zone and, on the other hand, of a European Union unable to compensate and learn from its own history. Europe has shown in recent months the image of institutions present, present, when banks came to cry at their doors, but of institutions deaf to the legitimate demands of a state for a concrete and immediate restructuring of its unsustainable debts. This Europe, which was built on the ashes of the Second World War, thanks to the vision, action and commitment of a few heads of state, including ours, Paul-Henri Spaak, Pierre Harmel and even Jean-Luc Dehaene of the European Convention, this same Europe is about to collapse because of the vanity and cynicism of a handful of blind accountants, bent on the short term and on the political reality internal to their own country rather than on the European vision. Prime Minister, far from me, far from us, environmentalists, the idea of falling into a naive, caricatural, binary vision of the situation. Of course, Mr Miller, the Greek state and the successive governments of some 20 years, socialists and conservatives, bear enormous responsibilities in the situation experienced by Greek citizens. By lying about the real state of public finances, by letting corruption gangrene the whole country, by keeping excessive military spending which, by the way, also served the German and French industry – at that time, we did not care – by not developing a real tax administration, by maintaining a partisan clientelism, by politicizing the public service, by protecting the aristocracy, the Church, the shipowners, yes, the Greek responsibilities are enormous, including the present government! And those who say otherwise or who want to protect certain interests, these are very mistaken. But, Prime Minister, Minister of Finance, it is not a lasting solution to add to the austerity that has been going on for months a punitive logic and a humiliating political tutelage of a whole country. This is not a lasting solution. This agreement, the so-called compromise, is already inconclusive. To take up the title of the Spiegel we were talking about, the diplomatic "desaster" to which this option leads, it is its effectiveness and even more its effectiveness which the Greens doubt. Even the IMF says it and recognizes it from now on. Mr Prime Minister, if we wanted this debate here in plenary, it is also to try to understand clearly what the exact role Belgium played throughout the mechanism was. Why, when, on Friday, your Minister of Finance, Mr. Van Overtveldt, was interested in the proposals adopted by Greece, did he find them, on Sunday, insufficient or not drinkable? Why did he co-sign and adopt a text that referred to Grexit, when you told us that it was not an option for Belgium? With my colleague, Kristof Calvo, it was this attitude that frozen the image of Belgium on Sunday, which made us react. We have contacted the President so that in plenary we can take stock of the attitude and role Belgium has been able to play. Prime Minister, this too is problematic today. I was saying: your Finance Minister has frozen an image of a Belgium clinging to extreme positions of a Schäuble or a Dijsselbloem. We saw him in the pictures. You tried, you rowed when you arrived at the Council of Ministers at 4:00 p.m. You rowed because you were stuck. Neither the international press nor the Greek partner was mistaken by putting Belgium clearly on the side of those who posed the problem. Where was Belgium of old? Where was this country of compromise, this country capable of building bridges, usual mediator, activist of an integrated and solidarity Europe on Sunday? Clearly to the absent subscribers! Now what? What about the future? Now that the text has been approved, including by the Greek Parliament, we believe that the conditions set out in the note are so untenable in fact that they already call for a next plan which, if negotiated in the same logic or ideology, will further push Greece into the impasse and especially the Greeks into poverty. Prime Minister, although you have not tweeted this, I am sure you understand it. You are able to be the first to understand it. Maybe you understood it on Sunday? You knew very well that some of the objectives that have been adopted are untenable, in particular the tax objectives, the quantified objectives. They'll never be hit! And you will have to negotiate a new agreement and set a new basis at that time. As ecologists, we are convinced Europeans and we are convinced that an alternative exists. It requires a qualitative political leap and the creation of a political, economic, federal and solidarity Europe with the creation of European taxation and social security alongside monetary Europe. This is the only option, coupled with parliamentary democratic control of the euro area, that would allow a lasting solution to be envisaged. That is what we would have wished to sanction with a vote on a motion of direction, a recommendation for further action, but that was not made possible. Mr Prime Minister, if I were to end with a note of hope, I would invite you to come back as soon as possible to the spirit of the founding fathers, the spirit of Europe, of which our compatriots were, at the time, the spearheads and whose worthy succession you were unable to assume this weekend.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-16-54-plenair-ip064x.u24	Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, this Monday, we pushed an of of relief to this agreement, which helped to avoid the worst of the worst. The worst of the worst is indeed Grexit, for the Greeks, but also for all Europeans. Greece remains in the euro area, but recognise that the situation remains extremely serious, critical, first and foremost for Greek citizens. The sick give up treatment, poverty is exploding, the middle class is increasingly affected and the Greeks will be subjected to heavy sacrifices. I refuse to get into the game of those who distribute good and bad points. I simply see a certain form of ideological blindness on both sides, between those who venerated Tsipras and those who galloped behind the position of Germany or Finland. Everyone probably had good reason to act as he did, and I am not going to go into this debate. Greece remains in the euro area. For us, it must first assume its responsibilities, then regain our trust and finally receive our solidarity. Let us acknowledge that the past has led Greece to lose its credibility. The lack of implementation of necessary reforms, whether on initiative or in accordance with the plans negotiated or imposed, has deprived Greece of the confidence of its partners. However, this confidence is essential if we are to be able to benefit from the solidarity of the other Member States. Is it worth recalling that this solidarity has a cost to all Member States, a cost to all other European citizens and, above all, to the most vulnerable populations of these other European countries? This solidarity implies trust in Greece, which must use it wisely. This solidarity is obviously not there to allow Greece to continue to live beyond its means, without reforms. For Greece, this is a kind of last chance to restore credibility and regain confidence by implementing the agreed reforms. But this agreement leaves an essential question pending: will the reforms that have been agreed allow Greece to recover or not? I am not convinced of this when I read the opinion of many renowned economists who are not all Marxists in Tsipras' pay. Prime Minister, it can't have stopped you either. I am not convinced either when the agreement is barely sealed, I intend the IMF to demand massive debt relief, referring, despite the reforms, to an increase in debt to 200 per cent of GDP within two years. This, I believe, reflects the IMF's scepticism in Greece's ability to recover. At the same time, the full implementation of the agreed reforms seems essential to restore confidence and to be able to benefit from genuine solidarity. Two scenarios are possible. Either the reforms allow Greece to recover and it is so much better, or they do not allow it when they have been implemented, and in this case it is the euro area that will bear the responsibility and will have to assume it fully by showing great solidarity with a partner who will have regained credibility and confidence. In the eyes of the CDH, Prime Minister, it is also today Belgium's responsibility to step up from now on the assistance that can be provided for the fundamental reforms towards Greece and, perhaps, to prepare for an additional solidarity. It is true that Belgium is already investing in putting its expertise to the benefit of Greece. It is necessary to be able to do more, faster and stronger in support of the implementation of reforms but also in techniques to promote modernisation and above all to have greater efficiency, particularly of the State machinery, in all matters relating to tax administration. I would like to address all the lessons that can be drawn from the Greek crisis, and in particular from the European decision-making process on such a fundamental matter as the single currency. To decide unanimously by the nineteen members of the euro area on the solution to a crisis which puts this area at the mercy of the markets is extremely dangerous, especially since it puts the euro area at risk at every national election and at the mercy of any consideration of pure domestic politics. This Greek crisis has shown, I hope, that each of you will agree on this, the full fragility of Europe and has demonstrated that the single currency also involves a reform of governance, under the penalty of experiencing even more serious crises, or even sagas to Grexit repeatedly. This crisis is a serious warning. It is not a question of ignoring it once the imminence of a Grexit is removed. With regard to this European project, the CDH advocates ambitious and lasting solutions for which the urgency is more urgent than ever. Firstly, a European budget for the euro area must be drawn up which could face asymmetrical economic shocks. Secondly, it is important to establish a form of mutualisation, at least part of the debt. And I am not just talking about Greece, which has an extreme debt. Other countries have a very important one. It is only through a solution to help the countries concerned that we can address this issue. There is also a need to relaunch an ambitious investment plan geared towards innovative companies, promoting employment opportunities for the whole of Europe and concentrated massively in human capital. Finally, alongside an economic government, we must move towards fiscal and social harmonisation that is just as urgent as it is essential. These initiatives, Mr Prime Minister, Belgium can and must defend them boldly and, to this end, take the lead in leading this fight with the other Member States. I heard your government partners here. One of them, in this case the N-VA, reiterated that more Europe was not part of its plans. Prime Minister, I'm going to ask you very direct questions, and I'll end with that...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-16-54-plenair-ip064x.u25	Mrs. Fonck, just a moment. Mr Dedecker has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-16-54-plenair-ip064x.u26	Mrs. Fonck, a small correction, because I think you misunderstood me. I said that Europe has added value to many things. For many problems, more Europe can be a solution, but not for everything. We must remain critical. For some things, Europe is not a solution, but for others it is. Why don't you let us make that nuance? Please quote me correctly.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-16-54-plenair-ip064x.u27	Mr Dedecker, I have heard what you used at the very beginning of your speech. Of course, you will be able to play one way or the other, but it seems to me that your remarks were unambiguous. Prime Minister, I now turn to you. What does the government intend to put on the table first, both on the procedure and on the substance for Greece, in order to enable it to emerge from this crisis, thanks to the agreement that was concluded this Monday and to facilitate and accompany the process of reforms decided; then, to equip and move forward the euro area to give it institutions that are adapted to its degree of monetary integration? Indeed, ladies and gentlemen, not to move Europe forward is to make this crisis a definitive failure for all Europeans! Not to move Europe forward is to miss the opportunity that this Greek crisis offers us to dare a new Europe, to give hope to all Europeans, not just with words but with deeds!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-16-54-plenair-ip064x.u28	Mr President, this is a bitter spectacle. It was last night at 2:00 in Greece. The expression "with the knife on the throat and the back against the wall" is often used in newspaper articles. Anyway, it's very bitter. Yes, Greece has lived far beyond its status in recent years, as Mr Van Rompuy just illustrated. Yes, Greece has forged its budget and played with derivatives and swaps with the help of the Goldman Sachsen of this world. That has broken the population very badly. The people didn't know too much about that, by the way. We knew Mr Reynders said it in the newspaper last week, but we allowed Greece. During the banking crisis, all banks were saved, and Greece, which behaved like a large bank, was imposed a hard saving policy. That hard saving policy has exploded unemployment throughout Europe, increased poverty, and specifically in those countries with a strict programme of savings, it has made young people flee to other countries and even to other continents. When we talk about aid to Greece, it is so correct to say that no EUR 36 billion went to the Greeks, but that 90% of all aid went to the banks. The banks are also given a special place in this programme. After five years, the Greek economy has shrunk dramatically, and public debt has exploded. Mr Dewael, Mr Van Rompuy, patient Greece has had the flu for years. The solution of the doctor, the troika, is to give antibiotics. Turns out it doesn't work over and over again. The new solution is to give even more antibiotics, but the patient gets sicker. Over the past few months, we have all been able to see how bad the patient is in. Yet for the third time the physician prescribes more antibiotics. The patient doesn't believe in it anymore. All other specialists, from all over the world, don't believe in it either. The IMF doesn't believe in it and all the great economists don't believe in it either. In the meantime, everyone knows that this is not a solution, that this does not work, but the physician remains stubborn. What is the value of all these fine words about Europe and what the European project should be about, if one is applying a cure that does not apply to the disease? That is the central issue in this debate. We should not talk about left-wing conflicts here, we should talk about what works. What's ahead doesn't work! It's not working! So this is not the way of responsibility. This is not the way of solidarity. This is the way of looking blindly alongside the facts, resulting in poignant situations among the Greek population. Unfortunately, I did not hear the majority of my fellow Members say much about this. We all know that what is ahead will not be a solution to the problem. What is now before us only increases the chaos and the problems. I will not go into too much detail because my fellow Members have already said a great deal and Mr Nollet has explained the situation well. The central element in the note is a fund of EUR 50 billion that will be fed up with a massive privatisation programme, a privatisation programme that the then Prime Minister Papandreou himself proposed in 2011 as the world's largest ever. Since then, it has raised EUR 3 billion. It has also been admitted that the amount of EUR 50 billion has actually been wet fingering. It has simply been established without any justification. That amount of EUR 50 billion is now appearing in this note. It is clear that this programme has gone catastrophic, but where does that amount come from? How is that substantiated? Will they make it? You all know that EUR 25 billion will go to the banks first. According to an IMF note, perhaps EUR 500 million per year can be collected in the current situation. You can calculate for yourself how long it will take to raise EUR 50 billion and when you can invest in the Greek economy. In other words, the purpose of this agreement is totally unrealistic. That's not what I'm saying. That's what everybody says outside the euro group. As far as the other measures are concerned, it is interesting to note that the Eurogroup which has to make macro-economic proposals also has a number of micro-economic proposals in that note, namely on the competition between bakeries and milk companies, on the abolition of the solder period and on Sunday rest. Why not clean up Defense, no capital tax, no contribution from the wealthy shipowners? If the Eurogroup thinks it should make micro-economic proposals, what democratic support does it do? That is the crux of the matter. The note contains an element that does not work and a far-reaching interference through measures that we would not swallow in Belgium and that would upset the country. The remedy for Greece is other reforms and investments in modern technology companies, in renewable energy, in the yards of the future, but this plan does not give oxygen. And yes, Europe must also reform. The fine words about Greece must not remain words, they must become a reality for the Greeks, for the Irish, for the Spaniards, for the poor in our country, today, who have seen the pruning to grow mainly in their purses, but not in the wealthy shipowners or the wealthy, and who are still waiting for a tax shift to benefit them. That is the reality. That is the reality. That is the Europe that we in the Green Group are going for and in which you have not been involved in these negotiations.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-16-54-plenair-ip064x.u29	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, when we discussed the agreement in committee on Monday, I was rather optimistic about the fact that it is yet another agreement, but not a solution. Over the last few days, the newspapers have been full of economists' opinions who are indeed arguing why this umpteenth agreement is not a solution. A solution to a Greek crisis that has been going on for almost six years cannot come from any European agreement that will continue this euro-shape. Mr Van der Maelen just quoted Helmut Kohl. Indeed, he said at the time of the Maastricht Treaty that an irreversible political project was being launched with the euro. It's just a Grexit that can be the beginning of a final solution. A lot of economists share that opinion. I note that even from Luc Coene to Schäuble, we have finally come to this moving insight. Tsipras who has to perform the chord doesn't believe in it publicly anymore. No one believes in this deal anymore. I wonder, Prime Minister, whether you can say today that you really believe in this agreement. Do you really believe that a third aid plan can do what the first two have not done? Tsipras has stated several times that it was an uneven fight. It was indeed a power game in which people did not negotiate as equals, but in which Greece's weak negotiating position was shamelessly abused. I wonder, then, whether this is your idea of political cooperation in Europe, whether this is the way you want to restore confidence. It shows once again that the euro area and democracy are not compatible. The Greeks vote in a referendum very clearly 'no' and they get 'yes'. A referendum is not even possible in this country: Belgium cannot cope with that much democracy. A vote on the agreement is also being postponed, and I am sorry, Mr Calvo. Mr Calvo has often asked for that vote, but I would like to remind him of the fiscal compact, which was adopted here in the hemisphere two years ago in June 2013. That is a strangulation treaty that is part of the European Stability Mechanism. Only the Flemish Interest voted against at the time, but you then pushed the green button and you gave the European Union the sovereignty to regulate everything without the national parliaments having to approve it. So don't come on every committee afterwards and see for every camera that you want a vote. You gave your own approval, so please don't be a hypocrite. The majority parties do not want a vote and I have read all sorts of very lame arguments for that in the newspapers. Mr Vuye had the least inspiration. In De Morgen today, he claims that no one would vote against the agreement. Wrong. I would have liked to have voted clearly against the agreement because it is as scandalous, humiliating and useless for Greece as the Versailles Treaty for Germany and because the agreement continues the agony for everyone, for Greece to whom it offers no solution, but also for the northern countries of the euro area that must continue to pay for the southern countries. Mr Prime Minister, on Monday I was the only one who asked for the cost for our taxpayers. I did not get an answer from you then and I do not expect you to say the same thing as Yves Leterme in 2010, who said Greece would pay back everything nicely and we would even make money from the whole operation. No one's gonna believe that anymore. However, I do expect you, Prime Minister, to be honest with the citizens whose taxpayers' money is being used to fill the bottomless pits in Greece. For them, you must openly keep track of everything that has flowed directly, indirectly and through all kinds of emergency funds to Greece and will flow. For them, in the first place, you must stop doing so, for it does not bring any harm to the dike. The essence has already been mentioned by Mr Dewael when he spoke of the euro. The euro was doomed to failure and it is a disaster for European prosperity. I even share in part the analysis by Mr Van der Maelen, who quotes Helmut Kohl, that the euro can only work in a kind of superstate. For such a superstate we thank you. The Flemish Interest is not cooperating in this. There is only one solution that is affordable, because the euro is not sustainable. A third of the countries in the euro area are on infusion and need support. The longer you want to keep the euro, the more it costs, all on the taxpayer's hood. You can't continue to answer for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-16-54-plenair-ip064x.u30	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the agreement reached earlier this week in the Eurogroup is only a short-term agreement. The European Union is facing two crises, Greece and the euro area. They are distinct but mutually reinforcing. It would be wrong to follow the arguments of those who sometimes place responsibility for these two crises on Greece alone or the others that make it concern the euro area alone. Greece faces the worst social inequalities. They are the result of a lack of governance for several decades, attributable both to the left and to the right, which have pursued policies of clientelism, protection of special interests and abandonment of the rule of law. The euro area is facing a crisis that the weak economic growth of its member countries confirms because there is no economic governance that supports monetary policy and that the only European Central Bank cannot claim to be its leading authority. Democracy is failing in Greece because the oligarchies are powerful there. Democracy is failing in the euro area because there is no universal suffrage body responsible for controlling monetary policy. The weeks of tension we have experienced have highlighted Europe's democratic deficit. If there is not an ambitious evolution in the democratic construction of the European project, the doubt and the loss of confidence that leads people and citizens no longer to believe in the European project will increase. The symbolism of Greece, the cradle of democracy – a formula to be relativized, to read the good historians – confirms in the conviction that there can be no great economic projects for Europe unless there is first a great political project. The President of the French Republic has done a singular service to Europe by keeping the most intransigent, not only those of Mrs Merkel's government, but also other governments and perhaps even within your government, Prime Minister. It has saved the essential, that is, the necessary solidarity between European States. But this last-minute rescue does not guarantee the sustainability of the European project. First of all, we must welcome the will of the vast majority of Greeks who remain genuinely committed to the European ideal. They are the ones who forced the Greek Prime Minister to change his attitude, because it is wrong to interpret the results of the referendum, which are also incomprehensible, as the only refusal of Greece's membership of Europe. But it is true that Europe no longer arouses the heart of Europeans, because its leaders give the impression that it no longer has the dignity and collective strength to assert itself against other powers. Europe's real handicap is the European Union's lack of sovereignty. In geopolitical power relations, if the European Union becomes only a back-up force for other powers, the rise of nationalisms and populism will be inevitable and will destroy Europe's unifying project. All the political forces that have as their sole discourse or argument the confrontation between northern Europe, supposedly more rigorous, and southern Europe, accused of all laxisms, fall within the logic of the deep division that will eventually weaken all European states. Germany's economic prosperity owes a great deal to the development of the European states around the Mediterranean, which, through their accession to the European Union and the euro area, have offered it a large market for trade and exports. The question is not whether the policies of solidarity between the North and the South of Europe should be maintained. They are essential and beneficial to the European economy as a whole. The real question is whether these solidarity mechanisms are being used wisely and are actually supporting economic growth in Europe. The reform plan imposed on Greece contains essential measures (reduction of military expenditure, correct tax collection, increase in corporate tax), but also measures that will increase inequalities and lead to despair (decrease in the pension system, increase in VAT on certain consumer products, decrease in public expenditure on public health or in other areas of social security). It is not foolish to plead with neo-Keynesian economists for more progressive fiscal adjustments to take into account support for domestic demand and purchasing power. Even the IMF today asserts that debt relief for Greece is a necessary step to enable it to return to economic growth without which no creditor can expect repayment of the loans granted. The Europe we want cannot be that of humiliation. It must be that of accompaniment of States with respect for their sovereignty and the democratic will of peoples. Germany should remember that in the aftermath of the Second World War, the victors had this concern for it so that it would never again face the temptation of extremes that threaten peace in Europe. The intransigence of some German leaders, of whom it can be hoped that Mrs Merkel will continue to distance herself clearly and irreversibly, is only a short-sighted calculation. There is much to blame for the Greek political leaders, not just those of today. And it is true that Mr Tsipras' variations in speech and positioning are difficult to understand. But European leaders would show the greatest nobility if they managed to overcome grudges and had a greater will to save the essential: to take over the European federative project to build an area of economic growth through reaffirmed solidarity. The Greek Government will have to assume its full responsibility for the necessary reforms that none of its predecessors has really embarked on. But the European Union and, in particular, the Eurozone States will finally have to have the ambition of a more integrated economic governance that guarantees better economic balances for the benefit of all States. It is not the modest Juncker investment plan for which public funding is sorely lacking that will support European growth. The European Union needs a truly large-scale investment policy, financed by a common borrowing capacity and guaranteed by own taxation at European level. The Eurozone must have a true economic government led by a designated president in a parliamentary assembly. The Greek crisis can create a new ambition for Europe. Either Europeans will choose to follow the populisms of the far left and the nationalisms of the far right, retreats that will damage their common prosperity, or they will have the audacity, like many Greeks and Europeans, to assume the pride of a strong, more democratic Europe, and they will all move forward towards economic redeployment and the affirmation of Europe on the international stage. This is the choice of FDF, federalists, democrats and Europeans.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-16-54-plenair-ip064x.u31	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, 13 July 2015 is a black day for European integration. Indeed, I am being told today about an agreement. Now, an agreement is when two partners negotiate something with pros and cons on both sides. In this case, we cannot talk about an agreement because the Tsipras government – a first in history since the Second World War – negotiated with a gun at the temple! It was with this gun at the head that the negotiations took place with a sovereign government that the Hellenic Republic was. This was done by financially suffocating a state through a real economic war, by an act of war, by closing the financial flows that go to the banks of a country. It is this type of blackmail that has been applied to a democratically elected government in our European Union. It's a first, a sad first! In Belgium, we go even further. We would have liked to have been able to vote today, to have a debate followed by a vote which raises the question of whether or not we approve of this agreement. In many other European countries, this democratic debate has taken place. I can only regret that today, in our House, we cannot even vote on this basic issue to make our judgment on this agreement known. I say right away: had we been able to vote, the PTB Group would have voted against it because this agreement does not represent a solution to the Greek question. It is by no means a solution to the terrible economic and social crisis in this country. This is what hurts me the most, making the agreement of a sovereign country like Greece a neocolony. Let me make a specific comment on what the agreement is right. Everyone speaks of the agreement in general, especially by the majority. What's in the agreement? I read it out: the government must first consult the troika institutions and reach agreement with the institutions on all draft legislation in the relevant areas, before the draft legislation is submitted to the Greek Parliament or to public consultation. That means, ladies and gentlemen, that if we implement this in Belgium, any bill submitted in committee should first be approved by the Commission. Any bill we discuss should first be approved by the Commission. Any royal decree taken by the government on Fridays should be submitted to the Commission. Any form of resolution we submit in this House should first be submitted by the Commission to the troika. That is what we are imposing on a country, that is, the complete withdrawal of all forms of sovereignty and parliamentary democracy in 2015 in Europe. That is what the majority parties voted for! The second element in the report is privatization of up to 50 billion. That's the official figure. We've privatized $5.4 billion in the last five years, and now the troika is demanding 50 billion privatisation. That means, ladies and gentlemen, that everything will have to be privatized in Greece, everything! And you know that by privatizing water, privatizing the railway, privatizing airports, privatizing everything in Greece, we will not achieve 50 billion. To such an extent that some Members of the German Right dare to say without complex: "Will Greece have to start selling islands?" This is the vote today that all the European institutions want to impose on the Greek people. I will not turn around the pot: for us, this agreement is not a solution. This is not a social solution. 90% of the Greek unemployed are out of money. They're not getting anything from the state anymore. 60% of Greek employees receive less than EUR 1 000 per month. Two thirds of pensioners receive less than 500 euros per month. That is the situation in Greece. Here in Belgium it is easy. With EUR 6 000 per month, it is easy to talk, but go explain it to the Greek pensioners. They now receive EUR 500 per month and yet they are asked to settle for EUR 380, just for business. Who will benefit in Greece? Who will buy the water company in Greece? I'll tell you who's going to buy water in Greece! It's obviously GDF SUEZ. And who do we find in this group? Sofina, as a priority shareholder. And who sits in Sofina? Mr Verhofstadt of course! So it's easy to come and say that everything has to be privatized in Greece, but who will be the victims of all these privatisations? They will be those who cannot afford to pay and who are already victims of these austerity plans. They're going to ask me, "Raoul, and in your camp, in the left-hand side?" At the moment, we are debating a great deal. The European left movements are reflecting. What happened? How should we continue the resistance movement? I'll tell you. Some mistakes have been made in Greece. One of them, which is notable in January, was that a fraction of a party like Syriza sincerely thought it possible to reach an agreement. He persisted in an illusion that there could still be room for manoeuvre in the negotiations and that a referendum with 60% of 'no' and 'no' could be used to move the European lines. Another illusion was that a margin of manoeuvre would be possible thanks to the help of certain countries with social democratic participation, such as France, Germany - where the SPD is also in power - or the Netherlands in the person of Mr Dijsselbloem, who chairs the Eurogroup. Now the peoples of Europe will draw the conclusions of this failure. It is now clear that this European Union has no democratic vocation and that, from the outset, from the Treaty of Rome, it was set up to guarantee the free movement of capital, the liberalisation of services and the freedom to exploit more and more workers. On the basis of this experience, all the peoples of Europe will refuse to allow themselves to be confined to a real anti-democratic prison. And I say to you: in the months and years to come, the peoples of Europe have not said their last word. The Spring of the European People will come! Thank you. We continue the fight!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-16-54-plenair-ip064x.u32	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today's debate is essential. It is so essential that in recent weeks, on numerous occasions, in the Committee of Opinions on European Issues and three times in plenary, we have had an opportunity to discuss how to view Greece's place within the euro area. Greece's place in the euro area is a political debate. It is not just a discussion with financial or economic consequences, it is also a discussion with geopolitical consequences. This is an obvious fact for the Belgian Government. That is why we have always worked to give the Greek Government a chance to stay in the euro area. That's the government's intention. There's no doubt about that. On the other hand, I recognize that we have doubted. The Belgian government and other European partners have had doubts about Mr Tsipras' strategy, willingness and choice of government to stay in Europe or not. And we were right to doubt. Just two days ago, the resigned Finance Minister, Mr Varoufakis, responded in an interview that he had considered Grexit as a possibility, that a group had worked on this hypothesis. Indeed, it was not until the end of last week, six months after the first concrete, operational, precise proposals, that discussion, negotiation and exchanges could really start. These exchanges took place during a weekend, from Saturday to the night of Sunday to Monday. A number of Members wonder why this third plan would work, since the two first plans were a failure. I share the reasoning. If both plans had worked, of course one would not face a situation of a country with 180 per cent or 175 per cent debt in relation to GDP. Of course, we would not face a country that is virtually in a state of virtual bankruptcy. I think, as far as I am concerned, that if we want to be a little bit of good faith, we must recognize that, in reality, the two previous plans did not work because they were not implemented. That's the problem. They have not implemented the reforms. They're now saying it didn't work. Of course, since the reforms were not implemented. I'm getting to the third plan. Some speeches, I think, are ambiguous. There is no agreement today on a third rescue plan. That's not the point. We're not there yet at this stage. We are at a time when trust is terribly damaged between eighteen partners and a government. There is unanimous agreement in the Group of Finance Ministers and Heads of State and Government that there is a major problem of mistrust of a government whose ability, yes or no, to make commitments and then honour them is questioned. This is not an agreement on a third rescue plan; it is an agreement on a route with a clear orientation, with clear commitments, with a clear timing to build confidence stone after stone. That is the purpose of this journey. What is the content of this third plan that could be negotiated if in the coming days, after the Greek Parliament's vote, the three institutions and parliaments support the opening of negotiations? I will come back to this, because I think that what has been said is not correct, whether it is on the part of some Members here or even on the part of external observers, as brilliant as they are, as they are quoted in international references. There is, and I think it is important to stress, a two-pronged approach in this plan. On the one hand, the desire to give a chance to financial consolidation, to the absorption of debt in Greece, to the capacity to improve the state of public finances in Greece. But that's not all. In addition to this approach, perhaps for the first time in a significant way, there is also a huge open space for growth, economic development and investment policies. I don't want to be content with either slogan. I'm coming with the contents of the plan. The first point in the plan concerns immediate financing, which was the priority in the very short term. The Finance Ministers are working on the implementation of the decisions. In the very short term, a decision must be taken on the necessary financing. That is a first important point. Without this, at the time when we are talking, Greece was in a state of bankruptcy, with the tragedy and tragedy that this implies first of all for the people who are directly concerned. There is indeed a call for structural reforms to make the tax administration, for example, work better. Yes, it is true, there is a call to make strategies work better in terms of public infrastructure to actually attract investment, economic development, employment. Yes, it is true, we believe that in the energy field efforts must be made and reforms must be made to give development capacity in a sector as strategic as this one. Yes, it is true that in order to ensure the sustainability of the financing of social protections, reforms in these areas are also needed, for example, in the labour market. But these reforms are the counterpart, the responsibility dimension because there is solidarity. There is enormous solidarity, not from other governments or from other institutions, but from European citizens, from taxpayers. That is solidarity. It is the solidarity of the people that contributes to this with taxes. What amount is highlighted? I want to emphasize this because I hear very brutal formulas such as "the knife under the throat", "the revolver on the temple". It's very good when you look for a performance effect in a parliamentary forum, but what are you talking about? We are talking about a programme of 82 to 86 billion euros. A few weeks ago, we were talking about an extension of the programmes for an amount of EUR 7 billion. In a few weeks, the solidarity effort that has been put on the table. Moreover, we are talking about 35 billion euros immediately accelerated by the European Commission without conditionality for economic growth projects.Thirty-five billion euros! Imagine in this country if we announced €35 billion of accelerated investment for economic growth. Consider this as so many peanuts, take it as a back of the hand as if it did not exist, it does not seem to us serious, not correct and responsible. Finally, the Privatization Fund is also an extremely clear choice. Yes, there is indeed an approach to launching a number of privatisations in sectors in Greece. What is the balanced approach within this plan? It is to be said that part of these privatisations will make it possible to repay the debt and will be a guarantee for those who are solidary and another part can be used to further strengthen investment in growth, in economic development. Those are the facts. That is the reality. That means we are far from the slogans I've heard. A few Members have asked important questions about the Greek debt and the appreciation of the IMF. By the way, I note very interesting developments since the IMF is now becoming the major point of reference for one or the other political formation. We weren't used to that. We take note of this dramatic change. When considering the IMF's reasoning, try to be intellectually correct with each other. What does the IMF say? He believes that the debt structure needs to be reviewed, but at the same time, Mr Van der Maelen, the IMF is calling for structural reforms that are much heavier than those that were finally accepted in the plan from which negotiations can start! So, if we want to be rational, to be intellectually correct, we have to take the reasoning of the institution as a whole and not just the piece that interests us to construct an orientated reasoning! What is the position of our country with regard to Greek debts? That position has never changed. We have always said that a debate on debt is only possible if the Greek Government respects its commitments. That has not been the case so far. Perhaps with the third plan, and if the negotiations are successfully concluded, there will be an opening at the end of this year to discuss the consequences of debt. This means very concretely that what was decided in the plan, it is around October and November, when the first appraisals on the evaluation of the reforms undertaken and decided in Greece will take place, that we will be able to check to what extent we can encourage efforts, further strengthen solidarity with discussions about repayment deadlines or about the interest rate applied on debt. I would like to highlight one more point. I did it in committee and I do it with a lot of sobriety. I have heard that this plan is an approach that consists of humiliation, a treaty of Versailles imposed by the European neo-liberals. I heard it. But what is the reality? There are 19 of us in this meeting. And, Mrs Onkelinx, I say to you with the utmost delicacy, of the 19 members who sit in this chamber, there are seven prime ministers who belong to your political formation. This morning, the President of the Eurogroup, Mr Dijsselbloem, who, to my knowledge, is not a member of a neo-liberal European formation, said: "I have no mercy on the Greek government." Jeroen Dijsselbloem said: 'I do not feel sorry for the Greek Government.' What I want to make clear... It embarrasss you. I understand that it embarrasss you and it bothers you. I just want to say that a unanimous decision has been taken by 19 Heads of State and Government to, indeed, reach a hand, give a chance, avoid the Grexit disaster and allow us to resume the path of a negotiation that combines solidarity, responsibility and trust. [[Applause on the benches of the majority]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-16-54-plenair-ip064x.u33	I can imagine that you worked on your speech in the idea that I was going to question the fact that the agreement was reached by all nineteen of the Eurozone's partners, of which the Socialists are of course part. I didn't. It's annoying for you! I take the opportunity to say this. We still know coalition governments in this country. For our part, as a result of difficult discussions, when we were able to achieve compromises, we have always defended them. That's also the responsibility. At the level of "government" in some way in the euro area, it is the same. It was not because they accepted the agreement that there were no internal differences between them. I would like to take this opportunity to thank various speakers, in particular Mr Maingain, who highlighted the work of Mr Hollande. I would also point out that the Greek negotiators thanked a partner country for aid in the negotiations, that is France, that is Mr Hollande, that is the socialist Hollande. You see, when you come to learn from this, I find that it is a political game that falls short of what you have to expect in such a debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-16-54-plenair-ip064x.u34	I would like to thank you for this so convincing remark. It's true that political games are not your style, Mrs. Onkelinx! Mr Calvo, it is so difficult for the opposition parties to remain calm and intellectually correct. That's so hard for you guys. I would now like to express to you the conviction that I share with you, also in response to a few questions about the future of Europe and the challenges we face. My conviction is that the European Union, since the establishment of a new committee chaired by Jean-Claude Juncker, is indeed trying to learn from the past. In addition to the efforts needed to try to ensure that the budget is sound and that public finances are sound, there is a great deal of concern to try to support economic recovery, investment development and structural reforms as well. I note, no one can dispute, that the predictions for the future in the short and medium term are better than we thought a few months ago. There is renewed hope in Europe for the future in terms of growth and employment. This is crucial for a social model at European level. At the same time, I must note that we are facing three challenges in Europe that are for me and for the government of concern. There was indeed the challenge of Greece. She's still a challenge. In the coming weeks, we will continue to conduct negotiations to see if it is possible to have an agreement on a third rescue plan and to ensure that the euro area is consolidated. Of course, in the context of this challenge, the deepening of economic and monetary union, governance in Europe in economic and fiscal terms is a very important element. The Presidents of the institutions just a few weeks ago tabled a report to serve as a basis for the Ministry of Finance to work quickly and to take decisions to strengthen and consolidate economic and monetary union. However, there is a second challenge that no one has mentioned. In a few weeks' time a great debate will start on Britain's place within Europe. It is also a challenge and a potentially delicate obstacle for Europe's future. In this debate, Mrs Onkelinx, as we did in the debate on Greece, we will systematically try to play a constructive role, a positive role, a role in bringing together points of view to ensure that, in the European project, obstacles can be transformed into opportunities, opportunities for progress, and attempts to achieve results. Finally, there is a third challenge that I want to mention here. This is not the debate today, of course, but I am very concerned about the issue of security at Europe's borders. Relations with Russia, the situation in Ukraine, the situation in southern Europe are also potentially threats, short- and medium-term frailties, stability and the ability to finally generate economic development. I simply conclude, Mr President, by telling you that the past century has seen the continent torn apart in two tragic world wars. And probably, this European project based on an ideal form: the ability and will of yesterday's enemies to meet around the same table to try to work together for peace first, for security, for stability and therefore for prosperity, was perhaps one of the most beautiful dreams of the previous century. I am fully aware that the next few years will be crucial for the future of European citizens. I am also fully aware that the Belgian Government and Parliament have a responsibility to play a positive and constructive role, for the future of Europe. There are still delicate obstacles, fragile moments and difficulties ahead of us, but we are determined. We are determined to work seriously in dialogue with our partners to combine trust, solidarity, but also responsibility; to work day after day to ensure that the European dream is a reality for the citizens of Europe.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-16-54-plenair-ip064x.u35	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is over, and it is done, watching the situation of the Greek population deteriorate rapidly, because Greek governments do not accept their responsibilities. It is no longer possible for monetary union to go further. However, it has certainly and above all been done with support programmes which lead to nothing, because they are not properly implemented. There is a huge, huge misunderstanding about the programs put on the table in the past. Indeed, many seem to accept that these programmes have been carried out in a consistent and comprehensive manner. That is not the case at all. Savings were carried out in certain parts of the economy, targeting certain groups, but serious reforms of the economy and the public sector and the setting-up of a serious tax collection system hardly came about. There was no balance in the policies of successive Greek governments. The trend towards deflation and recession, which is inevitably achieved through savings, was not countered by the necessary structural measures, including to restore international competitiveness. It was all very clearly decided in those programmes, but it was never properly implemented by the Greek governments. So it doesn't matter to shoot at programs, because then one shoots at ghosts for a big piece. There is now a start to a new programme, a programme which unfortunately had to be put into a tight timeline. This has to do with two essential elements. Firstly, because of the delay of the Greek Government over the past few weeks and months, we are in fact at a hellish time table with regard to the Greek Government's financial obligations. It is what it is and what it wants in the euro area and must be taken into account. Secondly, there is a huge loss of confidence in the non-compliance, time and time again, year after year, because of the Greek Government, of the many commitments and promises made in the past. Privatisation does not play an insignificant role in this programme. First of all, this is not about the amount mentioned. We will always have to wait and see what we can achieve in concrete terms. The aim is, among other things, to reduce, through privatisations, the economy, which is absolutely uncompetitive and in which privileged positions are firmly protected, in order to achieve a competitive economy within the euro area, an economy that creates jobs and creates taxes for society as a whole. With regard to privatisations and cost prices, it is often said that the aid has gone to the banks in the past. That's partly true. The only question is which part. I hear 90% say it, but in many good studies it is estimated at 30% or 50%. In addition, two elements are repeatedly forgotten in that debate. First, in 2012-2013, international banks had to take 30% haircut on Greek paper, i.e. very large losses. Second, 60% of the Greek public debt was held by the Greek banks in 2010, so a large part of the aid went to Greek banks. I would also like to point out that the Prime Minister also referred to the fact that an agreement was indeed reached in the eurogroup on Sunday afternoon on what was to be presented to the Heads of Government. This happened unanimously, with the support of, among others, the French Socialist Finance Minister Michel Sapin and a few other socialist finance ministers, not to mention the President of the Eurogroup Jeroen Dijsselbloem. I have indeed been very active in this discussion of the euro group, and this in a playing field that clearly consisted of a triangle. The three elements are the following. Firstly, the need for a revival of the Greek economy. The social and human tragedy in Greece, for which no one can close their eyes, can only be turned in a serious and credible way if there is a revival of the economy. Anyone who doesn't acknowledge that just doesn't speak the truth. Secondly, the strengthening of monetary union. There should be absolutely no decisions that could undermine the short- and long-term prospects for monetary union. It is about prosperity and well-being for more than 300 million people, including outside Greece. Thirdly, the taxpayer's interest, including in Belgium. If I should then be included in the group of hawks, whatever that may be, because I play in that triangle and because I also want to defend the interests of Belgian taxpayers, I shall be honored and pleased to bear that title. Reference was made to the IMF. Mr van der Maelen, by the way, I referred to economists of the IMF, but it was of course a good thing that you did not mention that I also referred to economists of the ECB and of the European Commission. The IMF is now initiating debt restructuring. I would simply point out that the interest burden that Greece has to bear today, as a percentage of GDP, is lower than the interest burden of Italy and Portugal, for example. This debt restructuring must therefore always be seen in a certain perspective. Finally, at the beginning of this year there was indeed a number of speakers who pointed out that a start of recovery. In fact, the Greek economy regained access to the financial markets, which in itself was a very remarkable development. That is all from the map now and the cause is the hesitation, the dawdling and especially the political games of the past six months played by the Tsipras government. Anyone who means well with the Greek people and who is in good faith with the euro area and with Europe can only hope that this time the Tsipras government will accept its responsibility. The Prime Minister has just described it in detail, and there are still many short-term and long-term challenges ahead of Europe. Unfortunately, the Greek challenge remains a part of this.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-16-54-plenair-ip064x.u36	The Conference of Presidents agreed that short replies could be given.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-16-54-plenair-ip064x.u37	Mr President, I would like to thank the Ministers for their reply, but above all because they have defended it for the interests of the Greek people, for the interests of the currency union but also for the interests of the taxpayer. On behalf of the N-VA Group, I would like to put forward three priorities. The first is protecting our taxpayers' money. We, like other European taxpayers, have shown our solidarity on several occasions, many times and ample. This solidarity must now finally begin to bring about real improvement for the Greek people. Secondly, this is where we draw the line. That's it. That's it. That's it. The reforms agreed with Greece must now also be implemented effectively and effectively. It is no longer acceptable for them to be postponed. I therefore ask you, Ministers, to monitor these strict reforms. We will do the same from our group. Thirdly, sovereignty. It is clear that sovereignty is extremely important to us, Flemish nationalists. However, there is only one way to preserve sovereignty in a currency union, especially with accounts in order and debt under control. Once their debts are no longer under control, their sovereignty is waived to domestic and foreign creditors. That is something we must never accept. That is what this Swedish coalition is doing, putting the bill in order and getting the debt under control. That is the project that we fully support.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-16-54-plenair-ip064x.u38	Mr President, Prime Minister, you referred to the fact that there was great mistrust of Greece and that Greece itself referred to Grexit, which, in your view, should prompt us all to be wary. It's still amazing! It's been a while since the rumor of a possible Grexit roared all over the European cenacles and was relayed by the press. It was known that reflections were being carried out in some cases at the level of Germany and Finland in particular. And Greece should not have acted! She should not have looked at the situation and its consequences herself! To govern is to foresee, and it would have been a mistake on the part of the Greek Government not to examine the matter and not to arm itself in the event that the Eurosceptics would have plunged Greece, but also Europe, into the horror of Grexit.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-16-54-plenair-ip064x.u39	Mr President, I would like to speak very briefly for the quality of our parliamentary debates. What Finance Minister Varoufakis said, following his resignation a few hours after the referendum, was not only that Greece was preparing for the assumption of a Grexit, but that it was preparing the latter. He added that he had decided to resign because he had been put in a minority. Indeed, within the government, some felt that it was necessary to work to negotiate and stay in the euro area, and others, of which he was a member, thought that it was necessary to leave the euro area voluntarily.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-16-54-plenair-ip064x.u40	What you're saying is not right! I don't want to make Mr. Varoufakis' lawyer. But he didn't say that!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-16-54-plenair-ip064x.u41	He said it in English.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-16-54-plenair-ip064x.u42	He didn't say that. He did indeed choose to denounce the agreement. In view of the proposal put on the table – it was his personal choice – he felt that Greece's exit from the euro area was better than the agreement reached by the partners. The facts are very different than those you reported. On the other hand, with regard to the need to help Greece, I must say that I appreciated the formula mentioned by Mr Miller, who said, in a way, that helping a Greek is primarily helping a European. We are far from the contemptuous formulas, for example the Finnish head of government, whenever we are talking about helping Greece. Prime Minister, to try to get into your political logic, it seems to me that this head of government is rather a member of your group in the European Parliament. We are also far from the words of our Finance Minister, who, in order to avoid too much solidarity, talks about national taxpayers, as if, Mr Minister, Greece's bankruptcy were going to help Belgian taxpayers. It seems to me to be a very short-term vision. With regard to debt and the recovery fund, I have had very few answers. It's been a stone's throw. The Prime Minister said, "We have to look at what we can do about debt, maybe act on interest rates or reschedule it a little." Nothing has been said about debt reduction, nor about the assertion by many economists and the International Monetary Fund that debt should be reduced, that it is one of the conditions for intervention and investment. Prime Minister, you're saying, in a way that's cool, maybe we'll have to do something. I also believe that you could have made a much stronger speech on the need to help Greece through debt action. Indeed, if there is no action on debt, then we are in the forecasts of Mr Varoufakis, who says in particular that this agreement is a new Treaty of Versailles and that it will be a monstrous squabble with economic and democratic consequences and which will create instability on the European continent. As far as deepening is concerned, several groups here, the majority and the opposition, have said interesting things. There is a broad will to move forward on the formation of a real euro area government with a parliament that controls democratically, with a budget, a fiscal convergence action but also – and that is what could divide us – with social convergence action. On the other hand, what clearly divides us is the choice of weapons to save a country from near-bankruptcy. This is the big difference between us: you think hard as iron that austerity is the future of the people. It is all the more surprising that, at the moment, all economists, all specialists say the opposite. You, in a way, hide your eyes and shut your ears so as not to see or hear what they say, that this dogma is madness. That's what I'm denouncing today. And if there had indeed been resolutions today, if we had put aside this madness of a pure and simple resolution, a little silly, on the trust we have in this government... I would have wanted a debate on this dogma of austerity and a vote on it. Because this dogma is unanimously denounced, but at the political level, we continue to say that it is the future of Europe. This is a fundamental problem and I am afraid for the future of this Europe which is in the hands of the Conservatives, who continue to believe in this dogma.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-16-54-plenair-ip064x.u43	Mr President, Prime Minister, from your answer I draw the following lessons. Firstly, Belgium has fully played its historic role within the European Union. The role of trait d'union to allow, with the Belgian partners, the European partners, to reach an agreement. An agreement on which, indeed, there is restored confidence. Secondly, without blissful optimism, I think it bodes well. As you said, the work is obviously not over. But what has been done, the obstacles that have been overcome thanks to the European commitment of those around the table, those who also had responsibilities towards their people, and the Greek people, show that we can hope to restore confidence and chart a new future, a new start for the European Union. Thirdly, the answer is political – as you said, Prime Minister. This has been proven in the last few days. You have touched on this aspect in your answer. I also listened to what Mr. Van Rompuy earlier. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to stress a point that is of great interest to me, without being overly careful or misplaced. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of this House, we have heard on several occasions today and during the debates that have taken place earlier the great economic references of the Stiglitz, Krugman and other Piketty.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-16-54-plenair-ip064x.u44	Friedman!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-16-54-plenair-ip064x.u45	Friedman was also quoted. It's normal, but it was a historical reminder. Mr Nollet, you have anticipated my remark, it is extraordinary! Mr. Van Rompuy responded earlier by taking up some elements of the history of economic thought, which he knows perfectly. But I'd like to insist on one little thing. Mr. Van Rompuy, in case you haven't noticed, is sitting here in Parliament. He is a politician who develops and defends political reflection. I do not always agree with him, but I wanted to highlight this. What I wanted to say, Mr. Nollet, Mr. Cheron, tell Mr. Nollet to shut up for a second. In this way, I'm going to be able to sue. Thank you. It is always interesting and necessary to read authors, economists, thinkers. I have no problem with that. Nevertheless, the answer comes from true political intelligence to respond to the complexity of political situations. It is the democratic intelligence of those who are really confronted with the problems, like the various leaders who have had to face the Greek crisis and manage the economic and financial crisis in our country by trying to provide answers, all democratic parties combined. It is one of the greatities of the democratic system that brings us together. I'll take a little example. Never, sirs. Stiglitz and others, for whom I have a great deal of respect and whom I like to read, have neither announced nor even felt the financial crisis coming from the United States and which hit Europe with full force. We are still busy fighting it today. Mr. Laaouej, I am not arguing with you. I'll tell you the same thing I told Mr. Van Rompuy. You're a tax expert, but you're sitting on these benches and defending your opinions. I have a lot of respect for you. Those who have stopped the systemic crisis are not the Stiglitz and others, but the politicians who have been confronted with these difficulties. It is the money of the citizens that has been used, which has been put where it is necessary to try to stop this crisis. I pay tribute to people, such as Mr Reynders and the ministers who were in previous governments, who were able to make the necessary decisions. Ladies and gentlemen, democracy does not need gurus. She doesn't need to get her inspiration from thinkers locked in their ivory tower, saying that we should do this or that. Democracy has its own strength, it holds its own strength and it must be defended for the people.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-16-54-plenair-ip064x.u46	Mr President, Prime Minister, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to return to three or four points. After my presentation, I got a text. I am addressing the Minister of Finance. The text message shows that during their latest teleconference, ministers of the Eurozone Council decided to return homework to the Greek Parliament. After all, the laws passed there yesterday would not be in conformity with the agreement. Is that correct, Minister of Finance? If so, will the game start again? One of the fundamental problems in Europe, I believe, is the obsession of the ministers of the Eurozone Council with micromanagement. What is the point of deciding, instead of the Greeks, that shops should be open on Sundays, for example? What does that have to do with economic reality? Do we really not now have any idea of the political difficulties the Greek Government is facing in order to put such legislation through parliament in less than three days? Is the message correct?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-16-54-plenair-ip064x.u47	Mr van der Maelen, this morning there were two points of what was forwarded by the Greek Government, which were not in line with the agreements. This was immediately recognised by the Greek Finance Minister. My information shows that this has been corrected in the meantime.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-16-54-plenair-ip064x.u48	Luckily, that problem is off the hook. I would like to make a general comment. I believe that mistakes have been made in the file by Greece. These are old historical mistakes with 40 years of mismanagement of the country. I believe that we all agree on that. There has also been mismanagement by governments that have been in power since the 2009 crisis. They were governments of socialists and Christian Democrats, sometimes together. Mistakes were made there. Syriaza has also made mistakes in addressing the problem. Major mistakes have also been made by the European institutions and the European politicians. One of these mistakes is that people have done framing. A selective representation of the Greek side has been made. Prime Minister, you said earlier that Varoufakis admitted that preparations had been made on the Greek side for a Grexit. You can say that. That will probably be correct, but it is a very bad example, because a Grexit has been on the table in a non-paper by Mr Schäuble, without consulting his socialist partners in the government. The Grexit has been on the table, even in an official document. That was the document that came out of the Council of Ministers of the euro area. The last point said that if there is a Grexit, a debt restructuring could be discussed. There is only one side, in an official way, with the possibility of a Grexit played and that is on the German side. Thirdly, I do not repeat what Mrs Onkelinx said, but I do believe that the crucial debate is about how we respond to the economic crisis. Mrs Almaci has rightly pointed out that the crisis has caused serious social consequences not only in the problem countries but also in other countries. I still do not understand why in Europe, led by the Germans, people are so stubbornly holding on to formulas to deal with the crisis, which the United States say is wrong and which all the other major countries in the G20, Brazil, India, China, are looking at with fear. They note that we in Europe continue to swear by the wrong formulas. The ultra-saving policy continues to be maintained. The evidence is there. If the basis of the theories and the formulas applied to that country were correct, the problem would have been solved in Greece for a long time. EUR 47 billion has been saved. That's ultra-saving. EUR 10 billion has been saved in Ireland. Don't tell me Ireland is doing so much better. We know what's going on in there. The young people are running away too. You almost admitted it, Minister of Finance. In the Council of Ministers of the euro area, you have not, I stress, played the classic role played by Belgian ministers in European cenacles. We try to be the bridge between opposing opinions. You almost admitted it. You certainly didn't refute what was in newspapers like Le Monde, The Guardian and the Financial Times. Unfortunately, these are the only sources on which we can support. No reports are made in the informal presence of the Council of Ministers of the euro area. No one can control you. We need to put an end to this as soon as possible. Other colleagues have already advocated this. To those who say that the opposition breaks with the tradition of supporting our government in difficult European times, I say that you must earn the support of the opposition. You will get this if you play the constructive role that all your predecessors have ever played in European dossiers. The names have fallen. I regret to note that our Prime Minister and our Finance Minister did not play the traditional role of bridge builders in Europe this time. You have sided with the heartless sanitors who think that the problems can only be solved if a people has to bleed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-16-54-plenair-ip064x.u49	I admit, Mr Van Rompuy, that I did not write a thesis in 1974 as opposed to you. I wasn't born then. I have been in this Parliament since 2007. Not much later I heard Mr Reynders and Mr Leterme say that we would make money from Dexia, and also from Greece. Today there is a plan for the Belgian taxpayer to get something back. Dixit all the economists of this world, including us, and dixit the IMF in its appreciation of the agreement before it, and also dixit the ECB who just said it at a press conference, a debt relief is absolutely necessary, which is bad conditional in this plan, to give Greece oxygen and to give back some of its money to the Belgian taxpayer. Prime Minister, I have to admit, I have already seen you in better terms. You have defended the plan that is ahead but half-hearted, because it cannot be defended. The hawk after you has done his best: Syriza is the source of all evil, at 6 months it has derailed Greece completely and the 40 years before that are just a detail, a footnote, and so on. We just saw that. I believe that the newspapers have thus correctly described the gap and that this is the real change of course of our country. It is, of course, difficult to admit that the previous government lied to the people in this dossier, Mr Reynders. Mr Miller has drawn our attention to this once again. And it is, of course, even more difficult to admit that you have approved something while the guarantee that the taxpayer would see anything in return is almost nil. All the authorities have indicated that. You know that. The agreement has not yet been approved. It has yet to be approved in Germany. It also needs to be approved in Spain. And the IMF has yet to give its approval. This has already made the need for debt relief very clear. You hypothesize not only the future of Greece, but also the start-up of our country and of Europe. You know it, and you're responsible for it. All fellow Members of the majority are responsible for this. That's what's at stake today. You are pushing a medicine down the throats of Europe and of European citizens that is not working! I have already quoted the definition of madness here and you continue on that mad path with recipes that do not work and where the citizens of gag. There's a name for doctors like that, quacks. Quacks are the ones with Dijsselbloem on top. They have no empathy with European citizens and have no faith in the European project today. I would like to make it clear to you that we do not need the path of austerity further in the event of low interest rates. I'm quoting Koen Schoors from the paper today. We need a new wave of investment, especially in view of the low interest rates. Investing in better European networks, better railways, more sustainable energy, education and research. Leave the private companies the oxygen again to invest in more productive and more environmentally friendly European production processes. But guess what, you didn't give that touch to the chord. It's not in there. You have chosen to pour Belgian taxpayers' money further into a bottomless pit and, laughing at the citizens, to tell them that this recipe is going to help Greece and us move forward. Quod nun. That's your responsibility today.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-16-54-plenair-ip064x.u50	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we can agree that Greece must now assume its responsibilities and move forward in its reforms. That is how it can restore its credibility and, consequently, trust and solidarity can play its full part. The future of Greece will not only require solidarity. It will also involve economic recovery and reinvestment in human capital. We avoided Grexit and so, the worst of the worst, but basically everything remains to be done. A sword of Damocles remains hanging above the heads of all Greeks and Europeans. We can't afford to just buy time. In this area, Belgium obviously has a key role, that of taking the lead in supporting Greece in its reforms and providing it with its expertise where possible. We must also assume leadership at European level in the discussions and, above all, in the steps that I hope can be taken towards the establishment of an economic government, fiscal and social harmonisation, and the sharing of part of the debt of the euro area countries. Don't dislike those who don't like to hear political names, I will still allow myself to quote Jean Monnet: "Men accept change only in necessity and they see necessity only in the crisis". Europe has also, on several occasions, made progress in times of crisis. This time, if the crisis in Greece and the euro area is obviously serious, we can at the same time make it an opportunity for all Europeans.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-16-54-plenair-ip064x.u51	Prime Minister, Minister of Finance, I heard your answers. I must confess that you have not convinced me, but I feel that you are not worried about it. However, I want to respond to a few points. The first point, that the right always moves forward when its solutions do not work, would be that in fact, what had been asked for was not really applied in the country in question. This is the main argumentation on the side of the N-VA. But I believe that this kind of argument does not stand up to the study of the facts, of what happened in Greece. Because in Greece, many things have changed. Moreover, I would remind you that the autonomy of the Greek governments for the implementation of decisions was already almost zero. The Men in Black, people dressed in black from the European Commission, landed in Greece. They were all in hotels near the parliament and the government to technically manage the implementation of all the decisions on the spot. The autonomy of the various governments of the past four or five years was null and void. It was already a quasi-trust of the policies in question. Now you say, oh, we didn't apply. Explain to me, pension reduction, isn't it an application? The drastic reduction of the means at the level of the Ministry of Finance, is it not an application? The privatisation of many sectors of Greek society, is it not already an application? Today, all of your liberal revenues have been applied for five years and you say that these were not your policies, and that we must now implement a true Liberal plan. Stop with those cornets! You can see very well that your different solutions are applied. The second point is important because it is applied to Belgium. The Minister of Finance, Mr. Van Overtveldt, explained to us here that the real reason for privatisation in Greece is not a budgetary question; that the 50 billion is not to have money to repay debts but to be economically efficient. And then the question becomes Belgian. I believe that this is a warning for all the Democrats and all the people who have a little, I would say, respect for public service in Belgium. Our Finance Minister today says that the privatisation of 50 billion euros of public services in Greece will help economic efficiency. Applying these measures in Belgium would mean privatizing SNCB, privatizing RTBF. Privatize the VRT! The privatization of all our public services is in the ideological corpus of our Finance Minister. So I'm really sorry about that. I knew it from your book, Minister, but now everyone can know that you would find it economically efficient to carry out privatisation of most of the public services in Belgium. I'm sorry, Minister. I will gladly communicate what you have said here in Parliament today to all militants, to all those in Belgium who still want to fight a little for our public services. We have a finance minister who approves 50 billion privatisations in a country like Greece.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-16-54-plenair-ip064x.u52	Mr President, I would like to draw Mr Hedebouw's attention to two fundamental errors of opinion. Firstly, saving and reforming is not the same thing. It is true that there has been savings, but there has hardly been any reform. As far as privatisation is concerned, you say that this is not helping. Let me give you the best example, a Belgian example. Do you remember the RTT? Now, that was a model of clientelism. One had to know a politician to get a phone line within three weeks. That is the situation in Greece today with most public companies there. There we see the result of privatisation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-16-54-plenair-ip064x.u53	Mr Dedecker, I am sorry, because today it is not the fault of the RTT that there is a crisis in Greece. We agree with that. What is true is that in the banking sector, because it is the banking crisis that is the cause of what happened in Greece... Let me finish for a moment. Our two Belgian public banks, the ASLK and the City Credit, were privatised in the 1990s because it was said that the private sector would better manage our banks. "The public is not meant to run banks," Minister Reynders. That's what we heard in the '90s. Four years later, there is a banking crisis because those private banks have gone to play with our money in international markets, have gone to play with the Greek debt and taken risks. And who finally paid? Then I didn't hear N-VA. We've had to pump billions into the banking sector. That's what this is about. It is time for the money to go back to the workers and servants of this country and not just to the banks.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-16-54-plenair-ip064x.u54	Mr Hedebouw, you like to make the difference between private and public banks. I'll do the same. All banks have made mistakes. That's correct. On the private banks Fortis and KBC, however, the Belgian State no longer has any risks. At KBC we even made a profit, the only bank where Leterme's ruling worked and on which we made a profit. What is the result of the public banks, the banks that were run by government leaders and the ACW? You don't want to know. Dexia, that's our time bomb. Mr Hedebouw, that is the difference between public and private companies.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-16-54-plenair-ip064x.u55	Mr President, I would like to make one final point about Greece. When will we have another debate on the Greek crisis here in the hemisphere? That's what it's about. What does the IMF say? The IMF clearly says that with the measures that will now be applied, Greece will have 200 % debts. There's no solution on the table. The question today is what Europe we want. The reason for the crisis in the Southern European countries (Italy, Portugal, Spain, Greece) is very simple. For export-based economic models to work, as in Germany, it takes countries that import. It's economically obvious. For a country like Germany to have been able to explode its economy thanks to its highest productivity, it took countries in the South of Europe to buy German products. This model, which is based on export at all prices, on competition in the world market in order to be able to take market shares from one another, is this Europe that Germany is building for us. The European periphery will no longer be a consumer and will be in the midst of a crisis as Germany exports to all countries. This German Europe, that Europe which is based on the profits of a few German multinationals, as a left-wing party, as a democratic party, we say no. That is why the fight for another Europe will continue in the streets of Brussels, Athens and, of course, Madrid, Spain.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-16-54-plenair-ip064x.u56	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have just heard from Mr Dedecker: 'Here is the line, after this it is done'. I must say that many people in this country have already drawn that line with us. They already say today that as far as they are concerned, no package, no programme, no more money goes to Greece. If the gentlemen and ladies politicians want to invest in bankrupt companies without any guarantee, then they do so, that is their full right, but they do not have that right if it happens with taxpayers' money. We are clinging, and that is the essence of the whole debate, of the euro area, of the single currency, to which Greece should not even have joined, with all its structural errors. We are clinging to a single currency which the Greeks cannot afford and which prevents them from carrying out a devaluation that could give their economy a little oxygen. Mr Minister of Finance, in a previous life, when you were speaking only as an economist, I have often read that, in your opinion, Greece does not belong in this euro area at all. I've added your book "The End of the Euro" again. You make a correct analysis of the failure of the euro and you conclude that there are three possible ways out. A first run, which you felt was certainly not unthinkable at the time, is that a strong country like Germany would leave the eurozone, because the cost of maintaining them is much greater than the exit. Once again, they have to pay 25% of the whole package to Greece. A second possibility is that you mention throwing out the system and that a number of problem countries, whether voluntarily or not, are leaving the euro area, in this case Greece. The third possible way out you concluded was more of the same, muddling from one European summit to another. I regret that it is the last option that you are defending now, because you are aware that by wanting to maintain that euro at all costs, the loss-lose situation that we are still in will last. The northern countries pay the southern invoices and those southern countries are stuck with a towering debt and a currency that paralyzes their economy. You are aware that the euro is not money, the euro costs money. The only solution is a Grexit or an orderly division of the euro area. Too bad you don't defend your awareness in higher regions now that you're wearing Minister of Finance's hat. I'm gonna ask you to do something about it anyway.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-16-54-plenair-ip064x.u57	I believe that we can end the debate with this.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-16-54-plenair-ip064x.u58	The President [[in front of the assembly standing]] [[:]] Colleagues, Véronique Cornet, a former member of the Chamber, died on 14 July in Namur at the age of 46. After obtaining the degree in law at the Université Libre de Bruxelles, Ms Cornet became a municipal receiver of the city of Thuin in 1994. From a liberal-engaged family, she became a member of the Chamber of Representatives of the Charleroi-Thuin Arrondissement in October 1997. In our assembly, the barely 30-year-old Véronique Cornet was known as a driven member of the Finance and Budget Committee. From June 1999, Véronique Cornet sat continuously, first for the PRL and then for the MR, on the benches of the Parliament of the French Community and the Walloon Parliament, of which she was the first Vice-President since 2004. In the Walloon Parliament, his constant zeal has been reflected in countless questions and inquiries on a wide range of issues, including those concerning Forem and political and administrative transparency. From 2006, she served as Vice-President of the Special Parliamentary Committee ‘Immo-Congo' and, from 2008, she was also a member of the Reflection Group on Institutional Reform, which was responsible for shaping the institutional future of the Walloon Region. Known for her perseverance and file knowledge, Mrs Cornet was particularly interested in regional employment, in rural development and in the management of the real estate heritage; the files on municipal autonomy also received her full attention. In January 2001, Véronique Cornet became mayor of Montigny-le-Tilleul, succeeding his father Philippe and his grandfather Clotaire. Among its first priorities were the modernization of public roads and the construction of a new communal school and a new communal house, three major construction sites which it carried out. As mayor, Mrs Cornet wanted to be as close as possible to the citizens and was almost always at their disposal. Véronique Cornet had suffered since 2011 from a serious illness that she endured with great courage and dignity. On behalf of the House, I offered my sincere condolences to his family.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-16-54-plenair-ip064x.u59	It is with great emotion and sadness that the government and, I think, many politicians have learned of the death of the Walloon MP and mayor of Montigny-le-Tilleul, Mrs Véronique Cornet. Passionate about politics, a passion that she had inherited from her father and grandfather, it is entirely that Véronique has always invested and committed herself. Daughter and granddaughter of two mayors of Montigny-le-Tilleul, a commune located a few steps from Charleroi, Véronique bathed very early in politics. A law graduate, she first became a communal recipient of Thuin. Approached by Jean Gol, she launches herself and presents herself on a PRL list. She was elected as a Member of Parliament in 1997, and then joined the Walloon Parliament in 1999. She will not leave this assembly. I personally had the opportunity to work with Véronique, especially when I was Walloon Minister of Home Affairs. Véro, as it was all called, was particularly involved in her parliamentary work, particularly on issues relating to communal autonomy or the economic development of her region that she loved so much. It was a personality that went to the end of his files. Véronique was a fighter, a passionate worker deeply attached to her community and her fellow citizens. She has always mobilized a great deal to advance the issues in the service of her people, and it is always with fervour, with tenacity, and often also with captivating, that she defended her projects and ideas. Véronique pushed her ideas to the limit. In 2014, despite her illness, she plunged with incredible courage into a last campaign, which ended with two seats winning the MR in Charleroi. She rarely lost a political battle. It is with great sadness that we have heard that she has lost the fight against her disease. Véronique left far too fast. Energetic, spontaneous, we will remember her as a person who was engaging with her guts, as she herself said. We will not forget his professional and human qualities. The Grand Charleroi and Wallonia lose an exceptional political woman who fought to realize her ideals of social justice through harmonious economic development. On behalf of the government, I wish to extend my deepest condolences to the family, family and friends of Véronique Cornet.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-16-54-plenair-ip064x.u60	I propose, ladies and gentlemen, that a few moments' silence be observed in memory and memory of the late colleague.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-16-54-plenair-ip064x.u61	Mr President, the government wishes to associate itself with the tribute paid to Mr José Brisart, who died in Lessines on June 23. A training worker, José Brisart joined the world of work at a very young age, barely a teenager. He chose to compensate for this lack of studies with a ferocious appetite for reading. Extremely engaged at many levels, trade unionist, activist in the FGTB, pacifist activist and also activist in alternative health groups, José Brisart joins the people of Ecolo at the time of the emergence of the movement in the Walloon political landscape. He was one of the first elected to his party in October 1985 when he became a member of the House of Representatives. He was also one of the first elected members of the Walloon Regional Council for Soignies from 1985 to 1987, but also from 1992 to 1995. During these two political terms, José Brisart is particularly interested in the policy of major works and their impact on the environment. He is very interested and involved in the problem of waste management or the issue of drugs. He will not be re-elected in 1995. He will remain particularly dynamic within his party's local section in Lessines and ecology will be the guiding thread of his existence. On behalf of the government, I extend my deepest condolences to his family, friends and loved ones.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-16-54-plenair-ip064x.u62	Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that you observe a minute's silence in memory of the late colleague.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-16-54-plenair-ip064x.u63	For technical reasons, we're going to suspend the hearing. At 6:05 p.m., we will begin the hearing with the oral questions. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 16 July 2015 at 6.05 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Thursday, July 16, 2015 at 6.05 p.m.
