ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic213x.u1	Madam President, Madam Secretary of State, you will not be unaware of the research carried out by the Centre for Budget Advice and Budget Research. This shows that 12% of Flemish young people between 16 and 18 years of age are in financial risk behaviour. Ten percent of young people are already in debt, although mostly limited, 25% of young people already appear to be betting for money and almost 10 percent play at least once a month for money. That's quite a large number and quite a risky behavior. If that continues, then we do not know where that will end. In many cases, it leads to poverty in any case. How did this government and your predecessors deal with this problem? How is the financial risk behaviour of young people, in particular as regards betting and gambling behaviour, combated? You may know, what interests me particularly is the role of the National Lottery in this matter. It systematically refers to the obligation to channel. That is indeed the case, but we must be careful that the obligation to channel non-dangerous game behaviour does not pass into a stimulus story, in that the market is increased rather than shifted to less dangerous products. That is the risk. Hence my question: how does this institution fit into your policy? Have you discussed this with your competent colleague? What arguments do you put forward in such consultations? Was the cabinet anti-poverty in the past involved in issuing new scratch games, such as Bling Bling with Astrid Bryan and Milk Inc.? They attract young people specifically. One may wonder what the usefulness of mystery shoppers is when the National Lottery develops scratch games that have a certain attraction for young people. To what extent do you see the advertising campaigns of that public authority? How do you evaluate them in terms of combating poverty and problematic game behaviour? How do you evaluate the evolution of the gambling market offline and online, the impact on your policy and the role of the National Lottery as a channeler and not as a stimulator? The National Lottery systematically refers to a liberalisation of the gambling market. That is an important element, although we should not underestimate the role of the lottery itself. We need to revisit that role.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic213x.u2	Madam President, Mr Dedecker, the fight against over-indebtedness was an action point in the first federal plan to combat poverty in 2010. The second federal anti-poverty plan of 2012 developed an operational objective around this problem and debt. It also receives specific attention in the third federal plan to combat poverty. Let me give you some examples. In the light of the fact that addiction to gambling is a major threat to a low-chance public, the government commissioned the Minister of Justice in 2010 to negotiate with the Gaming Commission on the development of a prevention campaign on addiction to gambling. In its fight against gambling addiction, the Gambling Commission then has the prevention film Bluff! I'm sorry, I'm sorry, Young people aged 14 to 18 were the target groups of this prevention campaign. The campaign film went together with a teaching dossier and an educational group game and is still available today on the website of the Gaming Commission. The second federal plan to combat poverty focused mainly on strengthening dialogue and coordination between all the parties involved in the fight against debt. Within the Inter-Ministerial Conference Integration in Society, a working group on debt burden was set up. A third federal action plan to combat poverty is in full swing. This Action Plan will include a broad vision of poverty, aim for an inclusive and preventive policy that promotes self-reliance and ensure that fundamental social rights are guaranteed. In this action plan, I want to focus on the problem of debt and will start negotiations with the relevant minister. I will also reconvene the IMC group on debt burden in consultation with the Minister responsible. As far as the National Lottery in particular is concerned, I would like to clarify the following. The National Lottery plays a special role in the gambling market and is commissioned to "directly channel the game behaviour in Belgium and give fun to a wide group of people by offering recreational games." This obligation to channel clearly means that the National Lottery must develop new products on the basis of market trends and make its products known through appropriate advertising campaigns. The National Lottery, unlike the private operators, is strictly followed by a Committee for Responsible Game, which provides prior advice on all new products. Marketing campaigns are subject to a special ethical code, which is followed by the Jury for Ethics in Advertising. Without product renewal and advertising campaigns, the National Lottery would make itself redundant and leave the players to the aggressive advertising campaigns of private casino operators and betting operators who recruit mostly young players via the Internet. Since the liberalisation of the gambling market in 2011, private operators have been able to offer all kinds of games of chance over the internet, such as bets and poker games, which are particularly popular with young players. For example, the National Lottery limits the bets for its online offer, but the private providers are not subject to any limits. The strong growth of the gambling market since 2011 according to the Gaming Commission, the gambling market is now bursting out of its addition.. is mainly due to the private offering. In short, while the 2011 law amendment aimed to better control the illegal supply through limited liberalisation, casino games have now become a simple pastime under the continuing pressure of media campaigns. Casino websites offer free welcome bonuses of over 200 euros to attract new players. Indeed, I am very concerned about this situation, as do the statements of the Gaming Commission that the casinos in Belgium are suffering from overly strict Belgian anti-money laundering legislation. I will enter into discussions with the Minister of Justice on this issue, in order to examine whether the private gambling market should be subject to stricter conditions. I will also consult with the National Lottery, which has drawn up a number of proposals for this.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic213x.u3	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your comprehensive answer. I'd never heard of the movie Bluff! and will ask for more information in writing. As far as your answer to my question on the National Lottery is concerned, it is striking that you are quoting that institution on this point. Your answer may have been drawn up after input by the National Lottery. We know that story. The National Lottery likes to refer to the casinos, while they have very limited advertising opportunities, at least the physical casinos, because online it is a different story. In that respect, moreover, we must look at how we are going to proceed, as you yourself said, and make things more stringent. In this context, however, we must not forget the National Lottery. Advertising for gambling is ubiquitous in the street. Every corner of the street, every newspaper shop or gas station has all the information about the National Lottery and every half hour we are beaten with its campaigns on the radio. We must therefore ask ourselves whether this institution does not increase the market rather than shift it. The National Lottery is responsible for half the advertising budget for gambling and that is immense. I therefore wonder whether, with her so-called harmless gaming opportunities, she is not lowering the threshold for gambling and this represents an innocent pastime and is thus partly the cause of gambling addiction. We need to look at this further, because it is very important for your approach to debt. That too is dangerous, as we already know in Greece.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic213x.u4	Madam President, Madam Secretary of State, during the Belgian Pride, in which you participated, which I congratulate you on seeing that the last major demand for equal rights was the legislative progress towards transsexuals. On April 28, in the Advisory Committee on Social Empowerment, you told us, following a meeting with the Department of Justice's office, that you were working on the finalization of a project on social empowerment, which you expected to present to us in the following month. Minister, please forgive my impatience, but I would like to know what is happening to your project. Depending on your answer, I may have to ask the same question to the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic213x.u5	Madam President, Madam Secretary of State, in your general policy note, you indicated that you would like to work on a new action plan "Homo and transphobic violence and discrimination", in particular on the basis of the recommendations on the discrimination of transgender people made by a network of experts in collaboration with the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men. You also indicate that you wish to adapt the law of 10 May 2007 on transsexuality in the light of international human rights obligations and to conduct a debate on these issues. You have specified "to consult with human rights experts, transgender people and associations representing them" and, on the basis of these discussions, to draft a bill that will convert the law on transsexuality into a law for all transgender people. You stated that "in the course of these interviews, the aspects that will be addressed in this context include the criteria for changing sex and first name, the protection of the rights of transgender parents and their children, medical expenses in the context of a change of sex, discrimination in insurance, the fight against harassment and the adaptation of identity documents". Madam Secretary of State, could you inform us about the state of play of the new action plan "Homo and transphobic violence and discrimination"? Have you ever conducted interviews with human rights experts, transgender people and their representative associations? If so, could you inform us about the content of these? What are the main demands expressed by these individuals and associations? If not, do you intend to organize them? If so, when?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic213x.u6	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Flahaux, I remember the interest you showed in this matter at the Advisory Committee on Social Empowerment. Although I appreciate your enthusiasm, the term "finalization" deserves to be nuanced. Indeed, my cabinet is working closely with the law firm to quickly reach a bill. The working environment is positive and constructive. As you know, the current law on transsexuality contains several provisions that are incompatible with international human rights. I was very pleased to hear that Minister Geens is committed to the total elimination of medical requirements. This means that there is already a consensus on one of the major changes to be made. A number of accompanying measures linked to this demediation are the subject of constant consultation. This is a priority issue in my equal opportunities policy. I would therefore like to be able to submit a final draft to you very quickly. But it is difficult for this type of file to provide you with a specific date. Nevertheless, I am optimistic, and I feel that my colleague, Koen Geens, and I myself will be able to submit a bill to you in early 2016. Ms Fonck, to answer your question about the state of play of the National Action Plan to Combat Violence and Discrimination against LGBTI People, please be aware that the preparatory study is closed. The fact sheets which have been drawn up within this framework can now be submitted to the various firms concerned. For both the National LGBTI Action Plan and for transgender law reform, consultation with experts and civil society remains crucial. With regard to the reform of the above-mentioned law, at first instance my office appealed to the Gender Team of the Ghent UZ, which is made up of experts and various specialists, namely a gynaecologist, a psychiatrist, a psychologist, an endocrinologist, etc., as well as a paediatric team. In particular, the age limit, which is particularly relevant for non-emancipated minors, is mentioned. The LGBTI National Action Plan is also part of an optimal consultation of civil society and my colleagues within the federal government and federal entities. They were asked to communicate several policy priorities in advance. These will be taken into account from the outset and stakeholders will continue to be involved throughout the development of the Action Plan. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic213x.u7	Madam Secretary of State, I am divided between two feelings. I know you have more than willpower. However, it depends not only on you, but also on the Department of Justice. Moreover, a whole series of technical and legal parameters, which are extremely important, are involved. I am frustrated by the fact that the case cannot be completed more quickly. That being said, I also know that both by your personal will and by your medical profession, you will succeed in this area. I simply hope that at the next Belgian Pride the draft will have been tabled and perhaps voted on. My wish is that there will be no more demands for legal amendments at all. Unfortunately, there are still many changes to be made to attitudes, but this is not a matter for a vote by Parliament. We have seen again what has happened recently in Belgium, with a very violent attack on a young homosexual, and in France on a young tennis player. And there, they were homosexuals and not transsexuals. But everything is in everything, the more the problem of transsexuals will be removed, the more a sort of banality will be established. What will ultimately count will be the person himself, no matter his envelope, if I dare say so.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic213x.u8	Madam President, Secretary of State, on 25 June 2015, the European Institute for Gender Equality presented its report in which it assesses the performance of the Member States of the European Union with regard to equality between women and men, using a "gender equality index" based on indicators from six areas: work, money, knowledge, time, power and health. The report shows that Belgium has lost 0.1 percentage points compared to the previous gender equality index. For each of the areas, Belgium achieved less success than in the previous measure, with the exception of the "time" index, where a status quo is observed. However, our country achieves better results than the European average for all areas, except for "employment". In your policy note, you stated that you wanted to assess the application and effectiveness of the three anti-discrimination laws of May 2007, as required by law. You also indicated that in order to carry out this evaluation, "it is essential to set up a commission of experts and to conduct the hearing of the Interfederal Centre for Equal Opportunities and the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men. I quote: "I will make the royal decree necessary for this purpose and in accordance with the law at the beginning of 2015. It will define the rules for the composition of the Committee of Experts, their designation and the form and concrete content of the report." Madam Minister, on the basis of the fact that for the six areas analysed in order to establish the gender equality index, Belgium has achieved less success than in the previous measure, except for the time when a status quo is observed, action must be taken. My questions are as follows. What is the status of the evaluation of the various anti-discrimination laws? When do you expect to have this evaluation? Has the Royal Decree laying down the rules on the composition of the commission of experts, their designation and the form and content of the report been adopted? Has the Committee of Experts been set up? If so, what is the agenda for its work? Have the hearings of the Interfederal Centre for Equal Opportunities, but above all of the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men, already taken place? What lessons do you learn? On the basis of the evaluation of anti-discrimination laws, could you also inform us of the status of the drafting of the three implementing measures of the Act of 10 May 2007 to combat discrimination between women and men to be taken in order to ensure its effective functioning - which concern the determination of goods and services which may be regarded as exclusively or essentially intended for members of a sex, the determination of cases in which sex may be mentioned in the conditions of access to employment and the determination of the assumptions and conditions under which affirmative action may be implemented?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic213x.u9	Mrs Matz, thank you very much for your question. I agree with you on the need to assess the anti-discrimination laws of 10 May 2007. Indeed, they should have already been evaluated during the previous legislature. I can inform you that we are in the final stage of the negotiations on the royal decree on the composition of the committee of experts for the evaluation of these laws. I hope that this decision will still be submitted to the Council of Ministers before the parliamentary holidays. This means that the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men and the Interfederal Centre for Equal Opportunities have been consulted on this preliminary draft. The latter found an echo in the composition of the Committee on Gender Equality and in the demand for gender expertise from members elected by the Secretary of State for Equal Opportunities. As soon as the royal decree is passed to the Council of Ministers, the members and their alternates will be presented within three weeks. As soon as the Commission is composed, an initial evaluation report will follow within six months. As far as enforcement orders are concerned, there are a number of possible avenues. In this regard, consultations have already taken place with the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men and the Inter-federal Centre for Equal Opportunities. I would like to include this issue in the evaluation and, for a matter of effectiveness, I would like to wait for the report before determining the most appropriate course of action.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic213x.u10	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for that clarification. It is true that the whole implementation of the provisions takes time. It was announced at the beginning of 2015, I hope that everything about the procedure can be set up as soon as possible and that we will be able to discuss the substance in concrete terms, since that is what we are interested in because it allows us to say what steps need to be taken at a given time to improve our statistics on equality between men and women. I have no doubt that you will implement everything that is possible quickly so that we can make a series of substantive recommendations. I will come back to you with questions in these recommendations.
