ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic153x.u1	On the agenda is interplay No. 31 from Mrs Pas, but Mrs Pas is not present. This interplay has already been postponed once, and if it is not dealt with today, I am going to ask the Conference of Presidents how we should deal with it. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Frédéric converted 3516 into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic153x.u2	Mr President, Minister, the armed soldiers on the streets who have been monitoring certain buildings since the threat of terror have shown a positive effect. In Antwerp and Brussels, crime fell by 30% in the streets where military personnel are present during the first 12 weeks of this year. In Antwerp, the number of minutes in these streets also decreased from 456 in the same period last year to 314. There is also a decline in Brussels. Thus, military personnel appear to have more effect on criminals than police combos driving around. This temporary cooperation has created a higher sense of security among the population, and it also freed up the capacity of police officers to focus on essential tasks. I also got information about places where there were no military; in West Flanders there was also a drop in criminal facts. In Antwerp we saw a decrease in 2013. Are there any figures on the number of criminal offences in the surrounding streets, where there were no military presence? If so, has crime gone up or down there? I ask this question in order to get an idea of the reasoning that was made, namely that soldiers on the streets mean that there is less crime. Is permanent surveillance more effective against crime than driving patrols? Have you been able to conclude this yourself, after that limited time? Do you intend to include this in the approach to crime in cities? Do you foresee a pilot project with police static surveillance in other cities?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic153x.u3	Mr President, Mr Demon, I have asked in Brussels and in Antwerp about the figures of the number of facts in the surrounding streets where there are no soldiers, but I do not yet have them at my disposal. The city of Antwerp published the crime figures last week and it shows that for the first three months of this year there is a general decline in most phenomena, of 23% and even 30%, in those streets where there are soldiers. Striking is the very strong decrease in the number of house burglaries compared to the rest of Antwerp. We can therefore make some comparison in Antwerp and the number of house burglaries in those neighbourhoods in Antwerp has fallen by 68% compared to other neighbourhoods, where the decrease is only 3%. I can answer your second and third questions as follows. The possibility of static surveillance should, of course, be included in the approach to crime in the cities. Fixed dispositions in a demarcated area have a particularly positive effect on crime rates. We have known this for a long time, and I refer again to Antwerp, where very positive results have been achieved in police operations in defined street clusters where there has been a phenomenon of cross-border work. However, this is very labour-intensive. I am not saying that these orders should be carried out by military personnel. It's about static surveillance, whether it's military or police. It's about the effect of static surveillance. I can also give you the following. I am sorry that this example is also from Antwerp. One and a half to two years ago, the Tielen paratroopers held an exercise in the central station of Antwerp, as they often practice somewhere. Normally there is always small crime in the station of Antwerp-Central, such as handbag thefts. That day, that number was zero. So that must have a deterrent effect. However, the police are not always able to carry out this static surveillance. Especially highly targeted and information-driven efforts are required because we do not always have the capacity. I therefore call for an en-en-story, in which, on the one hand, permanent monitoring is carried out by people, but also by cameras, and, on the other hand, mobile patrols are deployed. I don't think it's wise to make a mix of both. It's not an option for one or the other, it's more like an en-and-story. Again, that permanent supervision does not have to be done by physically present persons, that can also be camera surveillance. We have to look at that depending on the place and the time. In any case, a mix of measures should be provided for. The deployment of static or non-static patrols is, of course, first and foremost a responsibility of the local police chiefs and their mayors, but it is also a focus of attention for the respective DirCos, the directors-coordinators of the federal police. There must therefore also be good cooperation within the framework of the integrated police force, between the local area and the federal capacity in the districts. Finally, I would also like to call for realism. Not only the police make risk assessments, but also the criminals. They'll pick the place where the chance of getting caught is a little less. This is a shift of the phenomenon. This is also seen in the house burglaries. If you do nothing, there is little chance that the criminals will be caught in a home invasion. If the most complete monitoring is carried out at the homes, this does not mean that the risk is zero. Crime will then move. We need to put things in their proper context. Many eyes of the police and the army provide a higher chance of getting caught. In order to have a positive effect on every street, the number of people in the security services should increase exponentially. You understand that this is not realistic. In summary, through a targeted and information-driven approach, the police can try to predict where crime will occur and then provide a range of measures from prevention to detection. The presence of the police is also a prevention that can be done in different ways, taking into account the phenomenon, the environment and the possibilities of the corps. It is a permanent search for information, after which we look at and analyse that information to decide where we use our people best. It wouldn't be a life to use a form of static surveillance in every street. We do not want such a social image. There is a correlation with the use of static surveillance, this means permanent blue on the street, or in this case also khaki. I have always said that this is purely a capacity problem for me. It's actually the police's first assignment. However, we must also ensure that we do not spill our resources.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic153x.u4	I certainly support your vision. We may have to ask written questions on this subject. If the figures for Brussels and Antwerp are known, would it really interest me to find out whether there were fewer pvverbs? Is there less crime? I wonder if time will tell us whether the increased threat level has led to fewer pvprs being written out? Do we have to follow that combination a little bit in order to learn some lessons from it?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic153x.u5	Mrs. Pas, we were just wondering what to do with your interviews, since you weren't here. You're just in time.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic153x.u6	Mr President, I apologize for my delay. I have just come from the Committee on Justice, where I have asked a question in the context of joint questions. So there was also little margin to shift the questions. It was also about the inadequate functioning of the judicial district in Halle-Vilvoorde. Minister None has referred to his colleague Jambon for a number of additional questions. So I shall certainly come back to that. Mr Minister, my interplay is on a subject which you certainly do not know about. In the past, you have supported my colleague Bart Laeremans on this subject and at that time Minister Dewael on a number of occasions. The language skills of some of the Brussels policemen have been a problem for many years, especially since the 1998 police reform. Until then, the Brussels police forces were regarded as local services in accordance with the language law in administrative matters. However, according to Article 21 of the same language law, all agents had to obtain a language licence from Selor of their knowledge of the second language before they were recruited, an obligation which was always checked by the Vice-Governor of Brussels-Capital. The police reform has changed the whole system. As the 19 Brussels police forces were merged into six police zones, they were no longer directly subject to the language provisions of the Brussels local authorities but to those of the regional services. In practical terms, the language obligations remained the same, but in practice the vice-governor's control fell. On top of that, the problem arose that a large number of members of the federal police force and the former government guard in those six police zones were not originally required to fulfil that bilingualism condition. They've got a sleeve attached to that. The legislator added an article 69 to the language law in administrative matters, which provided for a transitional period of five years to enable those monolingual members of the six police zones to obtain a bilingual certificate. This deadline has been over since 1 April 2006, but in practice, it was mainly French-speaking that the majority of those transferred members of the federal police forces had not yet achieved the certificate after those five years. It is not better than to extend that five-year period. One more year and nine months have been added. In fact, the measure that could be recruited by a Brussels police zone without having the required language licence was generalised to all new recruitments. Our party, as well as the minister's party, has successfully challenged this new provision before the Constitutional Court. In the meantime, there is a judgment of November 2007 in which the Court annulled that provision. This means that from 14 January 2008 Article 35 (1) (a) of that language law shall apply in full. In other words, no one in these six Brussels police zones can be recruited unless he can provide a certificate from Selor on his knowledge of the second language. One cannot deviate from that language law because he is of public order. The Council of State has also repeatedly stated that the use of continuity of service should not be a reason to disregard that language law. Despite this judgment, we can only observe that there are still staff in these Brussels police areas and perhaps also recruited who cannot submit language certificates. When one looks at the evolution of the number of bilinguals, it turns out the opposite of what it should be. If the language law were correctly observed in administrative matters, there should be a constant increase in the share of bilingual speakers. However, we have to find the opposite. We have the figures until 2013. In six years time, there has been a decrease of 69.56 % of bilinguals to 66 % or a decrease of 3.1 %. In my view, this can only mean that the last few years have still been large-scale recruitment of monolinguals. The result is that in 2013 one in three Brussels police officers were not bilingual, with all the consequences that this would have, not only for the services, but also for the good police work. You know as well as I do that if the police do not respect the language law in judicial matters, this may result in the nullity of the actions, with all the trouble that this entails. My specific questions to you, Minister, are as follows. First of all, I know that in my first question I ask a lot of numbers. You can also send it to me in writing afterwards. However, I would have liked to know how many police officers were employed on 1 January 2014 and 1 January 2015 and how many of them had the required bilingualism certification. Secondly, how do you explain that, despite the fact that monolinguals have not been allowed to be recruited since January 2008, the number of bilinguals in the Brussels police zones has declined rather than moved forward? Thirdly, what policy do you intend to pursue with regard to agents who are still not bilingual at the moment, although they have already been given more than enough time? The transition period is over. Fourthly, what measures are you taking to prevent the recruitment of monolingual staff to the Brussels police force? Finally, will you take an initiative to ensure that any recruitment by the Brussels police zones in terms of compliance with language legislation would be subject to a further check from an official point of view? I am thinking, for example, of what happened in the past: requiring the zones to forward any recruitment file to the vice-governor and to grant him both the mandatory suspension and destruction powers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic153x.u7	In reply to your first question, Mrs Pas, I will give you the more detailed figures, because reading a table does not really make any sense. I can confirm that the overall figures for January 2013, 2014 and 2015 have indeed deteriorated. The figures went from 66 % bilinguals in 2013 to 64.21 % in 2014 and to almost the same percentage, 64.18 % in 2015. So the good news might be that the situation has stabilised, but I say that with some cynicism. The problem is mainly with the agents and the inspectors. In the higher context, the situation is almost in order. If someone with a bilingual license leaves because of retirement or mutation and is not replaced by another licence holder, there is obviously a decrease in the number of licence holders. In practice, this is solved by sending language-mixed teams out onto the streets. I know this is a patchwork, but that's what's happening right now. We are in a very difficult constitutional situation: the influx at local police level is a competence of the local police zones. The supervisory authorities, in particular the Brussels-Capital Region, are responsible for this. You are right to point out that this is a problem for both myself and for my party, which holds our attention. I will therefore remain attentive to it and I will consult with the competent authorities to see how the nod can be made, so that we can come to an acceptable situation again. At the moment there is a working group of my cabinet and the Brussels police areas of the 19 municipalities because there is a capacity demand from the police. We're objectifying that. I will not fail to include the question of bilingualism in this debate. I have no direct impact on it, but if there are certain questions, such as additional capacity, which we are trying to objectify, then we can link bilingualism to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic153x.u8	Minister, I know that you are concerned about the problem, but that is the only way that the problem will not be resolved. You have already indicated that the situation has deteriorated, as I had feared. I had the figures up to 2013, but apparently the situation deteriorated in 2014 and 2015. In practice, the use of lap agents is being sought, but in the meantime an illegal situation continues. I expected you to set targets in one way or another and oblige people to take language courses. At the time, when Mr Dewael was Minister of the Interior, you yourself stated that you could assume that you should recruit monolingual people for the sake of security, if they are really needed in the security services. However, you did not assume that these people could afford to remain monolingual. At the very least, I would have expected you to take initiatives on targets to encourage and even oblige agents to take language courses. We also know that the control of the Brussels-Capital Region is not what it should be. You should therefore ensure that, as in the past, the governor has the power to carry out checks again. I have tabled a motion of recommendation along these lines, Mr President, in the hope that the Minister will receive a great deal of support for this within the government. I'd like to hand it over to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic153x.u9	At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Barbara Pas and reads as follows: The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mrs Barbara Pas and the reply of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Security and Home Affairs, in charge of Great Cities and the Government of the Buildings, - having regard to Articles 21, 35, 1 and 69 of the coordinated laws of 18 July 1966 on the use of languages in administrative matters (SWT), - whereas the policemen of the six police areas of Brussels-Capital should in principle be bilingual; - whereas the transitional period introduced to allow monolingual agents transferred from other corps to the six Brussels police zones to obtain evidence of bilingualism expired on 1 April 2006, - having regard to the decision of the Council of Ministers to extend this transitional period by 1 year and 9 months; - having regard to the judgment of the Court of Justice in Case 146/2007 of 28 November 2007 of the Constitutional Court, which annulled that decision; - whereas from 14 January 2008 Article 35, § 1 SWT shall apply in full and only bilingual police officers may be recruited in the Brussels police zones; - whereas the SWT is a law of public order; - whereas according to the latest figures, only two thirds of police officers employed in the six Brussels police zones are bilingual; - whereas, according to the figures available, the number of bilingual policemen in the six Brussels police zones is increasing rather than increasing, and this raises the greatest doubts as to whether, since 14 January 2008, only police officers who have a certificate of their knowledge of the second language have been recruited; - whereas this situation jeopardises the proper functioning of the police forces in the Brussels-Capital Region, asks the Minister - ensure that policemen are no longer employed in the six Brussels police zones which have not demonstrated their knowledge of the second language in advance by obtaining a certificate from Selor; - take measures to ensure that the recruitment files of Brussels police officers are re-routed by the Brussels police zones to the Vice-Governor of Brussels-Capital so that they can verify their compliance with the language law in administrative matters and, if necessary, suspend them; - to confer not only the power of suspension but also the power of destruction on the vice-governor in this matter; - take effective measures in the short term to ensure that the police personnel present in the Brussels police zones, which are not bilingual, obtain the bilingual certificate from Selor in no time and draw the necessary conclusions for those officers who have been employed for a long time in the Brussels police zones without having a bilingual certificate; - make efforts to keep Brussels political leaders as full as possible with respect for the requirements of the language law in administrative matters." A motion for recommendation was tabled by Ms. Barbara Pas and reads as follows: The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Mrs Barbara Pas and the response of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Security and Interior, responsible for the Grand Cities and the Régie des Bâtiments, - having regard to Articles 21, 35, § 1 and 69 of the Law on the use of languages in administrative matters (LCEL), coordinated on 18 July 1966; Whereas the police officers of the six Brussels-Capital police zones must in principle be bilingual; - Whereas the transitional period introduced to allow unilingual officers who have been transferred from other police forces to the six Brussels-Capital police areas to obtain the required proof of bilingualism ended on 1 April 2006; - having regard to the decision of the Council of Ministers to extend this transitional period by one year and nine months; - having regard to Constitutional Court decision No 146/2007 of 28 November 2007 annulling that decision; - Whereas, since 14 January 2008, Article 35(1) of the LCEL applies fully and Brussels police zones can no longer recruit only bilingual police officers; - Whereas LCELs are laws of public policy; - Whereas the latest known figures show that only two thirds of police officers on duty in the six Brussels-Capital police areas are bilingual; - Whereas it is apparent from the available statistics that the number of bilingual police officers in the six Brussels-Capital police areas is decreasing rather than increasing and that there are therefore serious grounds for doubt that, since 14 January 2008, only police officers who possess the required proof of bilingualism are recruited; - Whereas this situation threatens the proper functioning of the police in the Brussels-Capital Region, asks the Minister - to ensure that in the six police areas of Brussels-Capital, police officers who have not previously proved their knowledge of the other language by obtaining a Selor language certificate are no longer recruited; - to take measures to ensure that cases of recruitment of Brussels police officers by Brussels police areas are again transmitted to the Vice-Governor of Brussels-Capital so that he can verify their compliance with the law on the use of languages in administrative matters and, if necessary, suspend recruitment decisions; - to give not only a power of suspension, but also a power of annulment in this respect to the Deputy Governor; - to take effective measures at short notice to ensure that non-bilingual police personnel present in Brussels police areas obtain Selor's certificate of bilingualism as soon as possible and to draw the necessary conclusions for officers who have been on duty for a long time in Brussels police areas without having a certificate of bilingualism; - to make efforts to ensure that police officers are as complete as possible in accordance with the conditions laid down in the language law in administrative matters." A simple motion was tabled by Mrs Sabien Lahaye-Battheu and Mr Conseil Degroote and Mr Franky Demon. A simple motion was tabled by Ms Sabien Lahaye-Battheu and by Messrs. Conseil Degroote et Franky Demon. Motions for resolutions will be voted on at a later date b. The meeting's over. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic153x.u10	Mr President, Minister, this question concerns a similar issue, but outside Brussels. At the beginning of March the media, especially in French circles, stirred up because in Mechelen a French-speaking lady, who has been living there for several months and who needed help from the police, was told by the police officer that they speak Dutch in Mechelen. There's been a lot of commotion about that, when that cop did nothing but apply the law. If the local service is located in the Dutch language area, only the language of the area should be used for relations with private individuals. There's nothing to blame for that cop. That lady has lived in Mechelen for several months, but apparently hadn't bothered to learn the language of the city where she lives. I don't want to be fanatical. I know that the language law says that agents in the Dutch language area can only use Dutch, but I understand, of course, that exceptions can be made in real emergencies and other languages used, as agents who are powerful. That's the obvious thing. However, this cannot and cannot be elevated to a system. Acting Mayor Marc Hendrickx responded to that event. I quote him from the Gazette of Antwerp: "We ask our police forces and our city services to help someone who is not able to speak Dutch in another language. In a city like Mechelen, where 125 nationalities live together, this is common. However, by asking that question to its services, in practice it means that language facilities are provided to French speakers, although the language law expressly states that only Dutch may be used. What worries me most is that such an attitude is a bad signal to those other speakers. Such a policy makes it normal for them to be served in their own language by the police. This does not seem to me to promote integration. In other cities and municipalities we have to identify similar situations in terms of language. Let me give you the example of Menen, where there was a strong response at the end of 2013. It was then restricted by giving clear instructions to the staff and informing individuals clearly that if they are not powerful in Dutch, they must bring a third person or an interpreter to the town hall for their contacts with the municipal services. The Flemish government has also issued directives on this subject on several occasions. My question to you, Minister, is what attitude you take towards the statements made by the acting mayor of Mechelen. Will you point out to him that such a course of action is contrary to the law? How do you expect local police services working in a monolingual Dutch speaking area to deal with foreign speakers, in accordance with the language law? Do you have any idea how the police in Flanders apply the language law in their contacts with individuals? If you can't see that, are you planning to map it somehow? Finally, do you make a roadmap or guidelines available to the police services in Flanders, whether or not by means of a circular, in which the provisions of the language law are recalled and which state how they should deal with foreign speakers? If you are in favour of that initiative, what will be the main lines of it?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic153x.u11	Mr President, Mrs Pas, language legislation is clear. She decides that Dutch is spoken in the Dutch language part of the country. That is the general rule that must be respected. As you yourself point out in your incredible broad-mindedness, it is true that policemen also have a duty of helpfulness. If someone calls on a police officer, even if it is in a foreign language, the officer cannot turn his back on the assistant. Both must try to understand each other, in any language, non-verbal or whatever. It is clear that official communication, the preparation of minutes, the official establishment of facts and the like will always be done in Dutch. However, if someone is in distress and calls on the police, I believe that the situation needs to be properly Maitrised. We need to make sure that the police do their job as an aid worker. However, as regards the language in official communication, no exception can be made. At the moment I have no idea how the police in Flanders apply the language law. However, I must say that I have never received a complaint about this, although of course I have not been employed for very long. If there are problems in this area, they will be reported to the language committee rather than to myself. I am prepared to ask the language committee about this, asking for an inventory to look into it. I'm not deluding myself too much about that. I don't think anyone's gonna complain because the police are helping him in a foreign language. I think someone would complain rather if he asked for help in Dutch and did not get it. In this case, a complaint would be lodged with the language committee. I can't imagine a foreign speaker being helped by a policeman or a woman complaining about this. I will certainly check with the language committee to see if any complaints have been received. Since I have very few indications at the moment that there is a real problem, I do not see the need to distribute a roadmap or a letter to the police. It's the application of the law. I can then draw up a letter with all the legislation that police officers have to apply, for example, that they have to drive on the right side of the road or that they have to stop for a red light, unless they are driving with a flashing light. We are not making a letter for that either. It goes without saying that policemen must apply language legislation. The Standing Committee on Language Monitoring sometimes deals with complaints and from them the police authorities draw the necessary lessons. I do not think the problem is very great. I will ask the Language Commission about this and also see if there are any signs of this coming to me. We'll respond appropriately. I do not think that the problem is very great at the moment, so I may not have to take any additional action.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic153x.u12	I am also curious to hear specific complaints from the language committee. We fully agree on the role of the police as an aid provider. The essence of my question, however, is the wrong signal given when an acting mayor gives instructions to the police forces that are against the language law. Shouldn't we take action against that? Does it not send a totally wrong signal when people are led to believe that they are being served in their own language and that they should not bother to learn the language of the area in which they live? That was the essence of my question. I didn't get an answer to that. It is precisely this danger that we would like to combat and that a directive would be able to accommodate the services. That is why we would like to table a motion for a recommendation in this direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic153x.u13	At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Barbara Pas and reads as follows: The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mrs Barbara Pas and the reply of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Security and Home Affairs, in charge of Great Cities and the Government of the Buildings, - having regard to Article 12 (1) of the coordinated laws of 18 July 1966 on the use of languages in administrative matters, - whereas local services in the Dutch language area may use only Dutch; - having regard to the statements of the acting mayor of Mechelen, which show that his police services have been instructed to speak foreign speakers who do not know Dutch or who do not know Dutch in another language; - whereas a similar derailment and disappearance of language de facto leads to a system of facilities for foreign speakers which is contrary to the language law in administrative matters; - whereas similar situations may also occur in the police services of other cities and municipalities in Flanders where many foreign speakers live; - whereas the language law in administrative matters is a law of public order, asks the Minister - to point out to the Mechelen acting mayor that the language law forbids him from giving instructions to the police forces in which he is urged to use a language other than Dutch with other speakers; - to carry out an investigation in the Flemish municipalities in order to identify the language used by the police with foreign speakers; - to make a roadmap or guidelines available to the local police services in Flanders on how to deal with foreign speakers in terms of language, in full respect of the provisions of the language law in administrative matters, by means of a circular.' A motion for recommendation was tabled by Ms. Barbara Pas and reads as follows: The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Mrs Barbara Pas and the response of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Security and Interior, responsible for the Grand Cities and the Régie des Bâtiments, - having regard to article 12, paragraph 1, of the laws on the use of languages in administrative matters, coordinated on 18 July 1966; - Whereas local services established in the Dutch-speaking region use Dutch only; - having regard to the statements of the mayor of Malines acting as representative of the fact that the local police services have been instructed to address in another language persons who do not know or do not have sufficient knowledge of Dutch; Whereas the taking of such freedoms with regard to the use of languages in practice establishes a system of facilities for allophones, in violation of the laws on the use of languages in administrative matters; - Whereas similar situations probably exist in the police services of other cities and communes in Flanders where the Allophone population is large; - Whereas the laws on the use of languages in administrative matters are of public policy, asks the Minister - to inform the mayor of Malines acting that the laws on the use of languages in administrative matters prohibit him from giving the police services instructions encouraging them to address the Allophone population in a language other than Dutch; - to carry out a survey of the Flemish municipalities in order to draw up a map of the use of languages by the police services in their relations with the Allophone population; - to make available, through a circular to local police services in Flanders, a manual or instructions specifying the use of languages in their relations with the Allophone population in compliance with the provisions of the laws on the use of languages in administrative matters." A simple motion was tabled by Mrs Sabien Lahaye-Battheu and Mr Conseil Degroote, Franky Demon and Koen Metsu. A simple motion was tabled by Ms Sabien Lahaye-Battheu and by Messrs. Conseil Degroote, Franky Demon et Koen Metsu. Motions for resolutions will be voted on at a later date b. The meeting's over. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic153x.u14	Minister, in 2011 police education was screened on the basis of the reports of the Visitation Commission. Many points of interest were highlighted. However, little has changed since the reports of the Visitation Commission on police education and the way it is organised. Minister, your policy statement also refers to the organisation of police education. What plans do you have with regard to that education? Do you consider changes to the form and content of education? What timing do you propose to implement reforms? Will the acquisition of the necessary competences and skills be given more attention than is currently the case? Do you also envisage a reform of the funding system of police schools? Do you have a vision on that yet?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic153x.u15	Mr Demon, not only is the basic training for prospective inspectors being reviewed and adapted, but also, on the basis of the findings of that committee, the police schools that visited the visitation committee have drawn up an action plan to respond to some of the findings of the visitation reports. The outside world may have the impression that nothing has changed, but in the schools themselves certain things are being dealt with differently today. Moreover, police training is a permanent focus in our security and police policy. Both in the federal government agreement, to which you referred, and in my policy paper, there are several objectives that have to do with optimising police training. These objectives respond to a clear question and a clear need for the field. They were also inspired by several evaluation reports on the training, including those of the Visitation Commission prepared in 2011. Now I'd like to deal with your three questions together, because everything is connected. This and next year I want to work on a number of objectives. Firstly, I want to optimise the quality of the training. Training must be of a high quality level and there is little discussion about this, which means that basic competences must be respected and that monitoring is necessary in order to monitor the quality level. For example, there has already been a complete improvement in the initial training of prospective inspectors, which is currently being rolled out. The same will now be done for the basic training of the agency framework. It's a modular formula. A working group at federal police level has been set up. The actors involved, including police schools, are part of this. The roll-out of the new route is scheduled for 2016. If we want to optimise the quality of training, we need to apply the principles of regular education a little more. We need to talk about acquiring competences and some kind of end-terms, not so much about the number of hours someone spends in a classroom or the number of hours someone spends in the shooting range. I don't care if a policeman in training is practicing twenty hours in the shooting range; I care if he shoots nine times, so to speak, when he targets the bull's-eye ten times. Maybe I'm setting the bar too high. That's up to the specialists. However, this is what interests me: to control the weapon, whether it is after 20 hours, 10 hours or 30 hours. We must evaluate rather on the basis of a kind of final terms of competence, such as in regular education, than on the number of hours per lesson. Basic training will be reviewed accordingly. I would also like to strengthen cooperation and synergies between police schools with a view to rationalizing them. I am talking not only about police schools, but also about training for firefighters and urgent medical aid. Four of the five Flemish police schools are already security campuses, where these things are integrated. In Wallonia it is even more separated. It's not a bad idea to achieve security campuses. This means cooperation and synergy between police schools. Basic training must be given everywhere, but must the same specialised training be given everywhere, in the ten police schools? In most cases, specialized training also requires a specialised infrastructure. That is where rationalization is possible. The question of financing is undoubtedly addressed here. I have agreed with the provincial governors to deal with the funding this year. In short, both the content and the form of police training will be subject to change in the long term. Knowledge, skills and attitudes have always carried our attention away. The ongoing work, aimed at improving the initial training of police staff in the operational framework, will fundamentally change the current training regime. Such reform, of course, requires time. In the new initial training as an inspector, which will start this year, the candidate must demonstrate at a certain point that he has the basic knowledge to be able to continue his basic training. Since the duration of the initial training to inspector is still limited to one year, a six-month probation period is provisionally introduced after the initial training, with the aim of providing the candidate with the best possible framework and strengthening and further developing his acquired competences according to the characteristics specific to his future workshop. The rationalisation through cooperation and synergies and the uniformisation of police training will reform the financing mechanisms in the medium term, for example in 2017. New regulatory texts will be drawn up, management contracts concluded with police academies, as well as accompanying and control measures implemented. It is too early to say anything about this at the moment, as we are still preparing ideas on it. I informed you in January that I will not now touch on the funding mechanisms of the recognised police schools, which are regulated by the Royal Decree of 28 February 2002. First of all, I think it is essential to discuss with the actors concerned the financing of police education and the related management contracts and accompanying measures. Consultations have already taken place at the level of the Conference of Governors. The debate is also held in the College of Directors of the Police Schools. I have committed myself to setting up a working group on the issue with a clear mandate and I would like to return to the Conference of Governors rather quickly. That has not been possible before, but I will do so as soon as possible, this spring. Reform or rationalisation of police education is not easy. After all, we must not miss the ball, because then we will find ourselves in even bigger problems. I would therefore like to show some caution in this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic153x.u16	Minister, two things already sound like music to the ears. First of all, you will work on ending terms. That, I believe, is the direction we should take with police education. Secondly, you want to think quickly about the organisation of specialized training courses. We have made a number of visits ourselves and it is seen that a lot of money is being spent. You carefully push forward the 2017 date, but that really must be the deadline for the introduction of the new funding system. The West Flemish governor has also rightly asked a number of questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic153x.u17	Mr Minister, as of September, Antwerp will have a new category of agents, in particular the rapid response teams, the SRTs. The intention of these teams is that they can quickly be placed in extremely dangerous situations. A team of three agents will be available around the clock. The SRTs will be equipped with special equipment such as sturdier bullet-proof vests, ballistic helmets, semi-automatic firearms, etc. in order to perform their intervention properly in the event of major incidents of violence. Mr Minister, what is the difference between the currently proposed SRTs and the already existing Special Assistance Teams? Is separate units in addition to BATs provided? What training courses will these teams receive? Who is responsible for the equipment and training of these teams? Is this at the expense of the area it wants to set up? To what extent does this prevent a further investment in the CGSU units?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic153x.u18	Mr Demon, there is currently no operational solution in the local police of Antwerp for incidents that require an immediate response from a more specialised unit on the ground. To this day, an immediate response is expected from the intervention teams or from the members of the PROA team or from the Special Assistance Team in such situations. BAT response time is approximately 30 minutes. There are also restrictions on the immediate use of shifts in the field, inter alia due to the lack of necessary tactical training and protective equipment. Moreover, there is no 24 hours on 24, seven days on seven presence on the premises of the PROA team and these teams are often engaged in carrying out court orders and actively tracking wanted persons. The Rapid Response Teams will fill in the missing link currently in place from 1 September when serious incidents occur that require an immediate response from more specialised units on the ground. Depending on the circumstances, this team will intervene or intervene as an emergency team, pending the deployment of BAT. They are fully at the disposal of the officer in the telecommando Room in shifts of 12 hours. They will only receive orders to support the intervention teams, which they can immediately break down when necessary. Secondly, the SRTs are supplied from the existing service PROA, which is part of the arrest unit, which includes BAT. They all operate under the same command. The arrest unit is a service within the Operational Support Department and falls under the Operations Directorate. In the approved staff needs plan, the PROA teams consist of 52 FTEs. The organisational framework is therefore not extended in order to deliver the SRTs. These teams will work alongside and in cooperation with BAT-AELs. The capacity remains the same, but one redefines some tasks in Antwerp. Thirdly, the members of the SRTs receive the VAG training. VAG stands for Skills Attacks in Group. In doing so, it is taught to make dangerous arrests with as little violence as possible. In addition, all members of the PROA team to which the SRT belong have followed the training of Arresting Units. This training is aimed at carrying out arrests in the area of administrative police, i.e. in the area of law enforcement. It's about federal police-approved training. Moreover, a pilot project is currently under way with the federal police in which the members of the Antwerp PROA team are trained by federal instructors in VAG. In addition, local VAG instructors are also trained via the principle train-the-trainer. Fourthly, the local police of Antwerp are responsible for the equipment and training of the teams. With regard to the material, there is an investment of around 270 850 euros, including VAT, with the main cost of purchasing special armaments, bullet-proof vests and additional protective plates, and ballistic shields. In terms of training, the investment is limited. This was already foreseen for all PROA members. This training was offered in the pilot project through the federal police at limited facility costs. As of June 2015, this will be under the management of the police area. The cost of using the sites of the schools will be deducted. The costs for campus Vesta are settled on the basis of credits. The cost of using the sites of the police academy of Ossendrecht in the Netherlands amounts to 7 461 euros. You know that police zones contribute to the police schools, for which they receive credits, and use Antwerp for this type of training. The federal police won't intervene in this, but we're looking forward to this project.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic153x.u19	That's obvious. We all know that BAT has already been compromised in Antwerp. I am thinking of Jonathan Jacob in 2010. It was then said that the P Committee should be made clear. Has this SRT been reviewed by the P Committee? Was all the criteria met? Was there a timing for that? 'Cause I'm worried. There were some questions about BAT, we have to be honest about it, and then this comes up on top of it or wrongly, I am not speaking out of it. How do these things relate to each other?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic153x.u20	It's about the same people. That PROA team consists partly of AE and partly of BAT. Some capacity will be transferred to those SRTs, who do rapid response. These people are given similar training and adapted resources. The same alertness and the same focus on BAT are also taken into account here. As far as I am concerned, there has been no special action to the P Committee, but you know that Parliament can call on the P Committee for further examination.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic153x.u21	Mr President, I have heard that in recent months the private sector has been showing a strong profile in order to take additional and, above all, supportive security orders from the police forces. The sector would also have appointed a consultancy firm to write a vision text. All this may fit in with the key tasks you announced for the police. Prior to outsourcing tasks to the private sector, it is appropriate to consider the reliability and guarantees of services, continuity and liability. The Security and Prevention Executive Board has a specific control cell focused on the activities of that private security sector. Each year reports on infringements detected in the private security sector. This includes the deployment of personnel who do not have the required identification card, lack of a valid licence or lack of a surveillance list. I would like to have an answer to the following questions. Does the FPS check that the security company's performance is in line with the recommendations and risk analysis of the organizer/customer? Has the number of infringements increased or just decreased over the years? Can we get numbers on that? Of course, it is not a problem that this is done in writing. Can companies that regularly commit infringements be eligible in the future to take over support security tasks from the police? Can police forces ask the Private Security Executive Board for information on the reliability of private firms before assigning certain tasks to them? How many staff are currently employed at the Private Security Control Cell? Do you consider an extension of the Private Security Executive Board to carry out additional checks, should the private sector take over certain police tasks? Have you had specific discussions with the sector and made proposals to the sector? How much money is collected annually through the compulsory fee to be paid by the sector and what are these funds used for?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic153x.u22	Mr President, Mr Demon, the supervision of private monitoring companies is both proactive in the granting and renewal of licences and reactive in the field, i.e. independently of the application or renewal of licences. In particular, the services of the Interior check whether the managers and staff of the surveillance companies are reliable. This is done for the staff on the basis of a desired profile as laid down in the law. That's Article 7 of the law in question. The minimum training required is aimed at ensuring that security officers know their powers and obligations and can also exercise them in accordance with the law. The permit conditions do not include quality requirements for the provision of services. There are no minimum standards of quality, material or infrastructure that the undertakings concerned must comply with. In any case, the customers or the clients themselves can verify that the services offered meet their expectations. For the private security sector controls, the figures are not recorded per province and data are only available from 2009 onwards. From that year onwards, the inspectors of the Executive Board of Private Security or the Supervisory Board of Private Security carried out the following number of checks. These were 796 controls in 2009, 630 controls in 2010 and 458 controls in 2011. In 2012 and 2013, this figure appears to have fallen seriously, in particular to 254 and 244 controls. In 2014 it went back to 680 controls. In addition to the checks carried out by the inspectors of the Home Office, checks shall also be carried out by the police forces. Following the infringements found, the following numbers of minutes were drawn up. I can give you the table with the numbers. The number of minutes in 2009 was 1 300. Afterwards, that number falls again every year to 765 minutes in 2013. In 2014, there was an increase to 973 minutes. These are both police minutes and minutes drawn up by sworn agents of the Interior. I've distinguished the table with the two. I'll hand it over to you in a minute. The authorisation shall be revoked or its renewal refused of an undertaking which regularly commits serious infringements. From a legal point of view, each licensed undertaking is eligible to carry out, in addition to private contracts, public contracts. The latter does not require any specific authorisation or qualification. The licence applicable to the performance of private contracts shall also apply to public contracts. Police or other public services regularly ask my administration for information about surveillance companies. However, the administration cannot give a quality assessment of a company. It may, however, assist the public administration concerned in drawing up a tender. The Private Security Directorate currently employs 17 people, including 11 who were recruited as auditors in 2014. They are under the direction of the Director. Those staff shall be deployed, both for carrying out on-the-spot checks and for the administrative handling of the checks carried out. Additional resources are already provided to promote monitoring of the private and special security sectors. In particular, an increase of 11 full-time equivalents is provided. A further 11 full-time equivalents are thus recruited among the 17 already employed. The administration has started consultations with the private security sector with a view to evaluating the relevant legislation, as included in the government agreement. This review is necessary before we can modernise the legislation. In 2014, EUR 6 058 000 in revenue was collected by the Private Security Executive Board, of which EUR 4 775 000 for fees. At the end of 2014, the Surveillance Fund included EUR 16 077 000. The annual appropriations will be drawn from that fund. They shall be used to cover the costs of administration, control and monitoring necessary for the application of the law and implementing acts. I believe that I have given an image and answered all the questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic153x.u23	It is a good thing that the private security sector is controlled. It is important to take this point further into account in discussions with the sector, especially in view of the key tasks debate. I hear that there are sufficient resources available, through the fees paid by the sector, to provide for proper control. If I heard correctly, those resources could increase a little bit. Any cooperation with the sector must be based on an operation on which we can rely and against which no infringements can occur without any consequences.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic153x.u24	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Maingain's 3739 will be made later. He is currently prevented from attending other committees. If he does not get here anymore, I will apply Article 127, 10 and consider the question withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic153x.u25	Mr President, Minister, in mid-March it was announced that the 669 neighbourhood information networks in Belgium are planning to re-establish an umbrella association to ensure better coordination and cooperation between the networks. Until 2009, there was already a non-profit association, but it was shut down when it became too big to be run by volunteers. In the meantime, it has become clear that there is too little cooperation between the various networks and that this is something we want to remedy. It is planned to create a knowledge centre in the form of a non-profit association and populated by policemen, coordinators and citizens. For the necessary financial input is looked at private sponsors and the government. The Home Office would investigate a possible collaboration. They hope to set up the non-profit organisation in May. The neighborhood info.net website would then also be launched, which should become an information site on and a support point for the neighbourhood information networks. Minister, has the Home Office now committed to cooperation with the neighbourhood information networks? If so, in what form and with what budget?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic153x.u26	Mr President, Mrs Lahaye-Battheu, the Home Office ensures regular contact with the future leaders of the non-profit organisation you are referring to. My department will support the unbooted non-profit organisation, not with money yet, but just help with it. My services provide the secretariat for the meeting of the National Committee, which takes place at least twice a year. In this way we ensure the exchange of know-how and good practices.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic153x.u27	My services are also developing a new means of communication between the various neighbourhood information networks and the local police via the Be-Alert system. So that communication platform is tilted into the Be-Alert system. We are still waiting for the non-profit association's business plan to further determine the cooperation. So I cannot tell you about the budget, since the non-profit organisation has yet to draw up its business plan. We are in contact and there is goodwill.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic153x.u28	Minister, thank you for your reply and I am following developments very closely, knowing that the first neighbourhood information networks in my region, the Westhoek, were established.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic153x.u29	Mr Minister, all new passenger cars must be equipped with an automatic emergency call system from 31 March 2018, in three years' time. That was finally decided yesterday by the European Parliament. The eCall system will spontaneously send a call to emergency services from a car involved in an accident via emergency number 112 informing them about the time and location of the accident, the type of vehicle, the type of fuel and the number of occupants. In this way, time savings should be realised. Emergency services should be present at the site of the accident up to 15 minutes earlier, with the result that 2 500 lives a year are saved in Europe. For our country, it would be 70 people's lives a year. However, there is some concern with the emergency services, which fear an influx of calls. That is why there would be a filter plant at Belgian level to separate the false and the real distress calls from each other. For example, false emergency calls may occur after a severe impact with physical damage only or also due to unconscious activation by eCall system drivers. In the filtering plant, the calls will be analysed. Only if it proves effective will the services be notified. It would not have been decided who would finance this additional plant, the taxpayer or the car brands. Apart from the additional power plant, Member States should adapt their emergency power stations by 1 October 2017 in order to make it technically possible to receive eCalls. Minister, how will the eCall system be implemented in our country? Is there a roadmap already in place?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic153x.u30	Mrs Lahaye-Battheu, at the moment eCall is not yet supported in the emergency call centres 112 and 100 in Belgium. We want to develop a system that offers as much added value as possible to victims and emergency services. Victims must be able to contact the emergency rooms quickly and smoothly, but we must also ensure that emergency power stations are not overloaded by eCall calls that do not appear to be genuine emergency calls. The FPS Home Office, the FPS Public Health and the integrated police are indeed in favour of filtering the distress calls first through a filter plant to avoid false calls to the emergency centre 112-100. We are preparing the necessary texts to make this possible. Belgium joined the Harmonised eCall European Pilot Project together with five other Member States. Information and experience on pilot projects shall be exchanged through that platform. In this way, Belgium wants to prepare and support the future introduction of the European eCall system as well as possible. The work is therefore in full swing; we are careful not to overload the power stations with calls that are not really intended for the power stations.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic153x.u31	Mr President, I would like to thank the Minister for his reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic153x.u32	Minister, last week it became known that a possible radicalised Belgian was doing a viewing session at the ICT department of the police headquarters in February. At that time, the police had a raised alarm for fear of attacks. Apparently, the intern could slip through the loopholes of the net and had access to the private records of the liaison officers and their families for two days. It was only after the intern was already in service that he was screened more extensively and was discovered that he would have sympathy for ISIS. Mr. Secretary, how are candidate police officers screened? On the basis of what criteria does this screening take place? Following this incident or perhaps other incidents you know, do you intend to make changes to the current screening?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic153x.u33	Mr President, Deputy Prime Minister, on 21 April, the media reported to us that an aspirant police officer of the Federal Judicial Police in Brussels, presumably radicalised, would have had access to personal data from officers in sensitive positions. He also reportedly asked about personnel, equipment, weapons, took pictures in the building, and sought access to the offices. On 4 March, a 31-year-old Brusselsian, who was also affiliated with radical Islamist movements, was also denounced for trying to get involved in the police by all possible means. It would therefore appear that screening within the police services can be called into question. I would like to ask the minister for clarification on these facts. For example, the press article on Tuesday, April 21 stated that the federal police had no evidence that the intern had subtilized this data. However, photos are reported to have been taken in police buildings. What about it? Can you tell us more? Have these photos been published? Could you also inform us about the procedures put in place internally by the police services in order to avoid this type of incident and to respond optimally to these situations? Have any specific measures been taken to deal with the radicalization of some police officers? If so, which ones? The press also indicated that screening procedures would be re-evaluated. Could you tell us how this re-evaluation is going to take place?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic153x.u34	The assessment of the extent to which a police officer fulfils the requirements of impeccable conduct is an integral and integrated process which, on the basis of the provisions of the Exodus Act, the Royal Decree RPPol........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ This process-based approach is foreseen and is also in practice in use. In reliability investigations, the candidate police officer concerned is therefore at the heart of the person himself. In the selection procedure for new employees, explicit attention is paid to the personality of the applicant and, in particular, to the personality characteristics that make it vulnerable to non-integer behaviour. That's a first step. The next step is to explore the living world of the candidate concerned. This world of life can be mapped in various ways via a biographical questionnaire, through the conversation, through the review of available data and so on. In a final stage of the procedure, additional research may be necessary when the results of the personality survey and the exploration of the applicant's living environment require this. We can argue that there is a methodologically well-founded process for assessing reliable behavior, loyalty and integrity, which is part of an integrated chain of the selection process sensu lato, which is controlled at federal level by the Recruitment and Selection Service of the federal police and in which local police forces cooperate. Within the Recruitment and Selection department, the assessment of reliability is a point of attention. Many initiatives have already been taken in recent years to further streamline this assessment through further standardization and structuring of this process. In the context of recent threat assessments, the screening procedure has also been thoroughly reviewed. This revision resulted in a draft law, dealing with various provisions, which will soon be introduced in Parliament. It provides for a better screening of candidates applying for employment with the police. In addition, a wider collection of information than the usual sources of investigation is planned. This will enable information to be collected from the intelligence and security services. For example, the fact that it is established or demonstrable that a candidate has a relationship with the criminal community, even if he or she has not yet committed a de facto punishable offence, will be taken into consideration in the assessment. Good screening by a specialized department within the federal police continues to be a priority. Depending on the professional career of the agents, it can be organised several times. This screening, however, reflects a situation at some point in time. The internal monitoring process based on day-to-day actions, both of the line managers and of the internal control department, is of paramount importance. Staff attention must also be constantly focused on reporting possible problems at the workplace, as has been the case in this case. Finally, the integrity approach remains a recurring issue for the federal police.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic153x.u35	Minister, if I understand correctly, additional efforts will be made. I believe, however, that you must insist on evaluating them. Because of the incident, there was a difficult situation. These additional efforts must therefore be properly monitored.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic153x.u36	Minister, thank you for this information on new screening procedures, their evaluation and the announcement of a draft bill on this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic153x.u37	Mr President, Minister, every year the Road Safety Fund receives revenue from the payment of traffic fines. The fund consists of two discs. The first disc is a fixed amount for the police zones and for the federal police. The zones also receive this amount each year. A second disc consists of additional means. From 2010 on the basis of the localisation of traffic offences, they would be distributed among the Regions. After that regional distribution, the amount is distributed among the zones on the basis of a number of criteria. In 2014, the second drive of the Road Safety Fund was still not paid. We questioned you about this at the beginning of 2015. You replied that the federal government would quickly resolve the problem, which was also the case by Royal Decree of 14 January 2015. That then amounted to 9 million euros. The Flemish areas received a total of 5.8 million euros; the Walloon areas received 1.89 million euros; the six Brussels areas received approximately 0.9 million euros; the federal police received 5% of the amount, which is 0.45 million euros. The VVSG has learned that the federal government would intend to change the distribution criteria for the benefit of the federal police. The federal police would not be entitled to 5% in the future, as in the past, but to 30% of the second drive of the Road Safety Fund. This would mean that the federal police would receive EUR 21.8 million instead of EUR 3.6 million. I am talking about the period 2011-2013. As a result, police areas would receive EUR 18.2 million less. If that is the case, this would create financial problems for the police zones in the light of their multiannual financial plans. This would also cause problems for the future. Minister, I would have liked to hear from you the following. Is it true that the fixed percentage would increase from 5 % to 30 %? How and when would this possibly happen? Do you understand that, if this happens, those reduced revenues for the local police zones will create problems?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic153x.u38	Minister, as my question deals with the same subject, I am not going to outline the problem. I come directly to the questions which are complementary to those of my colleague. Mr Minister, since it is on this basis that you are relying on information and communication technologies, can you quantify the investment that has been made in recent years and that will still have to be made in the near future? What about the current distribution of effort between the local police and the federal police? How will this distribution evolve in the future? As far as the Road Safety Fund is concerned, does the draft Royal Decree under consideration implement the government agreement according to which the terms of allocation of the Fund will be reviewed "on the basis of the place of finding the infringement"? If not, when will this item be dealt with? Have you ever had any discussions on this? Where are we now? Finally, can you quantify the impact of the measure, from 5 to 30 per cent of the federal share, on the police areas of the different regions of the country? Have you received any advice on this matter? What is your analysis of these opinions?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic153x.u39	For the sake of completeness, I also received an email from the VVSG with the same question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic153x.u40	Mr President, Mr Vanvelthoven, I refer to the similar answers I gave last week to questions by Mrs Temmerman and Mrs Lahaye-Battheu in this committee. At that time I indicated that I have not yet taken a decision on the matter, that the VVSG's alarm call is absolutely not yet in place and is far too early, because I have not yet taken a decision and I await the opinions of the various authorities. These bodies are the Board of Mayors, the Permanent Committee of Local Police and the VVSG itself. So no decision has yet been taken. These advices are coming in and on the basis of these advices I have decided to explore how we can finance investment in the ICT system iPolice without affecting the keys of the second drive of the road safety fund. That was the idea behind it. It wasn't just said to keep a little more money for the federal police. In 2016 and 2017, we will make major investments in the iPolice system, which the integrated police should also record in the field of computer science; we will go to a system for both local police and federal police. This case has to be financed, but would also result in significant cost savings for the local areas. In this context, federal police services have considered whether this could not be financed in this way. Questions are open to you, but thinking is also free. However, I feel with my clogs that there is no basis for doing it that way and so we are looking for another way. That will be done in consultation with the mayors and the local police. But that was the idea behind it. We will not get that second disc, but we will have to look at how we are going to get that iPolice system financed in one way or another, because that is going to bring a lot of benefits, both for the federal police and for the local police. I said at the beginning that the sensitivity of the local authorities is also my own. So you shouldn't panic too quickly and think that I'm really in the pockets of the local authorities. That is absolutely not my intention. Mr Demeyer, with regard to information and communication technologies and your first question, in accordance with the provisions of the Act of 6 December 2005 and the Royal Decree of 19 December 2005, the amount of the Road Safety Fund allocated to the police is divided annually into several parts. The first is to finance joint projects for the benefit of the integrated police. These include computer projects related, for example, to the development and maintenance of applications allowing the writing of PV and the feeding of the General National Data Bank Circulation (ISLP / Pol Office Circulation, etc.). The second is for the development and maintenance of the General National Data Bank Circulation, the management and communication of statistical data (data warehouse), the development and continuity of a single platform/website, with a uniform appearance for all police services (Police Web Platform), the maintenance and extension of regional processing centres, the digitisation of analog photo rolls and so on. This part of the joint procurement is co-managed by the Federal Police and the Standing Commission of the Local Police. Here is the change in the amount for the last five years: in 2009, the amount was 13.9 million (a little rounded up), in 2010 it was almost 10 million, the same order of magnitude in 2011 and 2012; in 2013, it was 17.3 million. Then there's a game for the federal police. In accordance with Article 6 of the Royal Decree of 19 December 2005, this amount may not exceed 5 % (the 5 % to which Mr Vanvelthoven refers) of the total amount to be shared from the Road Safety Fund. Here is the evolution of this amount for the last five years: in 2010, it was 4.5 million and in 2014 it was almost 5 million. Then there's a game for the police areas. The amount is allocated to each police area according to a distribution key, the calculation of which can be found in Article 6 of the Royal Decree of 19 December 2005. Here is the evolution of the amount for the last five years: in 2010, it was 86 million and in 2014 it was almost 95 million. I have the details, I have provided you with all the amounts for each year. With regard to future information and communication technology needs (2016), these have been returned by the police. Based on the amounts available, the Government decides on the distribution as described above. In answer to your questions two and three, I do not know what draft royal decree you are referring to. It seems to me that you are confusing several provisions and decisions concerning the Road Safety Fund. The government agreement and, more specifically, the undertaking set out in point 6.4.3., the penultimate paragraph, provided that "the Royal Decree to determine the distribution of the Road Safety Fund on the basis of the location of the finding of the infringement shall be taken...". This commitment was achieved by the adoption of the Royal Decree of 30 December 2014 implementing Article 7, § 1, paragraphs 2 and 3 of the Law of 6 December 2005 on the establishment and financing of road safety action plans and allocating the 2009 balance. With respect to the proposal to review the allocation key for the federal police, I repeat that this bill with various provisions has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic153x.u41	Thank you, Minister, for your reassuring reply at the moment. It is, of course, to be welcomed that you want to make important investments in the computerisation of the police and that you are taking innovative initiatives in this respect. I also think it would be a good idea if you asked for advice. You must note that your request for advice at the VVSG immediately rings the alarm bell. They will undoubtedly take note of the answer you have given today.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic153x.u42	Minister, thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic153x.u43	Mr President, I have nothing to do with parliamentary work, but on the one hand we have a Subcommittee on Nuclear Safety and, on the other hand, the Committee on the Interior. It seems to me that there is often a duplication of effort. I am absolutely prepared to answer all the questions, that is not what I am concerned about. Questions are being asked in the Nuclear Safety Sub-Committee, which the specialists are also at the table. It is a rather specialised matter. It is not for me to make suggestions to Parliament, but it is for us to decide what belongs in the Subcommittee on Nuclear Safety and what belongs here. If we also go into the question of nuclear safety again, I have no problem with that, then I will bring my specialists here as well. Then I can bring the staff of the FANC here as well. However, I believe that we will then be doing a duplication of work.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic153x.u44	It is a pity that Mr Vanvelthoven, chairman of that subcommittee, has just left. The committee services have just announced that no oral questions can be tabled in that sub-committee. Apparently, that's not settled. The only thing that could happen is for hearings to be organised and for supplementary questions to be asked in this context. I have heard that Mr Nollet is very active there. I understand that he has already asked more than a hundred questions in the course of hearings. We must decide here in committee what we are dealing with here and what goes to the subcommittee. The security aspect is still being discussed in our committee for the time being. We will talk to Mr Vanvelthoven to see if we can find a better mode of vivendi, so that we can have a better debate with the specialists. After all, I understand from you that you mainly act as a handover to the Member concerned for the whole that is being discussed by the specialists. If there is to be a deeper technical debate, perhaps it would be better to do so with the specialists than with the Minister, as you are actually suggesting.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic153x.u45	Either we must make a clear distinction between the political and the technical aspects. There is a distinction between taking political responsibility for a number of matters and the technical aspect of security.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic153x.u46	Mr President, it is not always obvious to distinguish between technical and political aspects, because it is a matter of taking responsibility for the information given. Having said that, I fully agree with the minister in his search for efficiency. My will is simply to answer the questions and not to double them. I have rarely asked the same questions on both sides. We had a meeting of the sub-committee this noon and decided to close the case so that the reports could be published. As long as we are not able to ask questions in the subcommittee, we will have to ask them here! It was also recalled in the subcommittee that we still had the opportunity to ask questions in committee. Nevertheless, the important reports on Doel 3 and Tihange 2 will soon be published and the questions will become very political, since it will be a question of knowing what the future of these plants will be. Mr Minister, at its hearing by the Nuclear Safety Sub-Committee on 17 March, Mr Bens, the Director General of AFCN, stated that "the defects found in the Doel 3 and Tihange 2 tanks were still in the standards of the calculation codes and were still considered acceptable according to the construction codes". Can you tell me what these calculation code standards are? What are the maximum accepted size and density accepted in these calculation codes? What is the maximum number of defects accepted in these calculation codes? What were the acceptability thresholds (size, number and density) according to the construction codes in force at the time of construction of these plants? What are the acceptability thresholds (size, number and density) according to the current construction codes?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic153x.u47	Mr. Nollet, the defects to which the Director General of AFCN referred in this context are mainly in the welds of the viroles and in the ends. This therefore has nothing to do with the defect indications in the basic materials that caused Doel 3 and Tihange 2 to stop as a precautionary measure. However, I would be happy to take the time to answer your questions about the calculation codes for the defects mentioned. Nuclear boiler components and nuclear equipment are manufactured in accordance with American practice, in accordance with the derogations granted at the time and updated in a Ministerial Order of 11 June 1993. Specifically, it is the ASME code, the American Society of Mechanical Engineers code. The responsibility for verifying the application of this code lies with the Authorised Inspection Agency. For Belgium, this is the independent monitoring body for pressure equipment, which is the responsibility of the SPF Employment, Labour and Social Concertation. Given the role of these nuclear safety components, AFCN and its technical support are also involved in monitoring the application of these codes, as part of their mission to ensure the safety of nuclear facilities. This is why the tank file is currently followed by AIB-Vinçotte and AFCN. In practice, the Code contains a complex set of rules and obligations that cannot be summed up in an answer to a parliamentary question. Moreover, as previously stated, the application of the ASME is first of all the responsibility of AIB-Vinçotte. However, I can give you an overview of the answers to your questions. In relation to detected defects, there are different criteria that require notification of defects, and then for larger sizes, justification. In this case, detailed calculations will make it possible to decide whether or not the defect is acceptable. ASME does not directly answer your question on a maximum size or number of defects. The ASME code is regularly updated but the basic principle remains the same. In this way, I hope to have satisfied in part your curiosity on these technical points.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic153x.u48	Mr President, Minister, I have a problem. When the Director General comes to the subcommittee, he tells us that everything is in the norm. I'm looking for standards, so the numbers. I'm told there's none! So we turn in circles! I would like to refer to legislation, orders, and even references for the United States. I can't find those standards that we're referring to. We want to be reassuring and, at the same time, we cannot tell me what are the elements related to these standards (size, density, etc.).). I have the impression that something is being hidden from us, as we cannot see what is being referred to in terms of standards. I understand that this is also a technical aspect which cannot be exhausted by a parliamentary question. I am simply seeking to obtain them, for example, in the form of a photocopy. I also understand that you cannot give me the complete figures. Nevertheless, I have the impression of hearing your answer – of which we know the source – that we are deliberately turned around the pot, unless I have misunderstood.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic153x.u49	I'd like to provide you with the code. In my opinion, you've searched the internet, but without success.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic153x.u50	I will look at this document carefully. In any case, some elements remain opaque. I'm going back to the document you're going to pass on to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic153x.u51	Minister, as we know – as was recalled by the Director General of the Agency on March 17 – the results of the fourth irradiation campaign were to be forwarded to the Federal Agency by the end of March and the international board of experts will meet at the end of April to examine them. My questions are simple. They do not refer to codes or standards. When did Electrabel submit his document to the Agency? Is the Agency in possession of all the results of the four test campaigns? When did the International Review Board meet? What are the main lessons of these test campaigns according to Electrabel? Is Electrabel in line with the prospect of a reopening of its power stations? What are the first lessons to be learned from the meeting of international experts? What are the next steps and timetable? Are we going to reopen the power stations?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic153x.u52	Mr Nollet, Electrabel sent AFCN the documents containing the test results on April 17. The AFCN now has all the results for the four test campaigns. Analysis of these documents is still under way. The AFCN therefore does not wish to comment on this matter at this time. The results of the tests were also provided to the experts of the International Review Board who met in Brussels from 22 to 24 April. They will draw up their conclusions in the coming weeks and give an opinion on the methodology to be used by Electrabel to develop its safety case. Electrabel will naturally direct this safety case in the direction of a Doel 3 and Tihange 2 restart. The AFCN, for its part, will study this file, collect and integrate into its analysis the opinions of Bel V, AIB-Vinçotte, the International Review Board and an external laboratory. It is impossible to say how long the analysis of the file will take. In fact, the AFCN does not want to set itself a timing. This is a complex matter that will take time to analyze. Since Electrabel still has to provide its safety case to AFCN, it is not possible at present to express any views on the future of the Doel 3 and Tihange 2 reactors. I have always said that the AFCN must be able to complete its work before taking a position on the future of the two reactors.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic153x.u53	Mr. Chair, I thank the Minister for his specific answers to the dates. And I understand the answers in which he says "it's too early." I ask the questions, do you ever know that the results have already been achieved! I will identify only one element of these answers. You confirm to me that Electrabel is in line with the prospect of a reopening of these plants. I do not know the elements of the file, but in and of itself, it is particularly challenging and disturbing. I'll get to know about it later. But today's information is that Electrabel is well in line with the prospect of a reopening of these plants on the basis of the tests that were carried out, except that on the basis of the first tests, they had to be closed. You say it's not a surprise to you, but on the basis of the first tests, the said plants had to be closed. I repeat, because it had not been recorded.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic153x.u54	Mr President, Minister, this is about historical data and it is very difficult to have access to this information, which is why I am speaking to you. Minister, in the context of the first 10-year inspections of Doel 3 and Tihange 2 in 1992 and 1993, it would appear that some indications of defect had already been noted at the time by the inspection machine and Intercontrol service. Can you give us the exact details of the surveys conducted at the time? Were these defects due to hydrogen? How many indications were found in each of the two tanks? What were the average sizes and maximum sizes of defects found? What follow-up was given at the time to the identified defects?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic153x.u55	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the defects detected at the time were not defects due to hydrogen. The purpose of the inspection was to investigate defects in the coating and welds of the reactor vessel. The characteristics of these defects are very different from those of hydrogen. In the initial inspections carried out in the early 1980s and in the inspections carried out in 1992 and 1993, eight indications spread over three pipes at Doel 3 were detected, while no indications were found at Tihange 2. None of the eight indications was characterized as a coating defect. All indications detected were characterized as non-fissurant and as conforming to the ASME Code. The case was therefore closed with the agreement of AIB Vinçotte. In 2014, the pitting of Doel 3 and Tihange 2 tanks was also examined with the aim of looking for defects resulting from hydrogen and no defects were detected. The eight defects detected in 1992 and 1993 in Doel 3 cracks were therefore not related to hydrogen.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic153x.u56	Mr. Chair, Minister, the information you provide is important. Indeed, you have just said that the defects noted were not due to hydrogen, but rather to defects under coating. Why is this information important? Because so far, much has been said about the situation of inspections which took place at the time of commissioning of the plants concerned and at which some defects were found, but they were not in sufficient numbers. In fact, today we have data from 2012 to 2014. According to the latter, there are 8,000 and even 10,000 defects. No data were available between the two. However, this inspection, which took place in 1992 and 1993 with the machine used today, made it possible to detect the defects caused by hydrogen and did not detect them. The only defects detected are the 8 defects under coating. This means that an inspection carried out in 1992 and 1993 in these two tanks (Doel 3 and Tihange 2) did not identify any hydrogen defects. It is not neutral with regard to whether these defects evolve over time and how many are counted. In 1992 and 1993, it was not found with the same machine. We can no longer say this time that it is due to a human error. One of the assumptions often used to explain that they had not been discovered at the time of commissioning was that the inspection was then manual, without the machine. But in 1992 and 1993, the machine was used and it did not detect them. I think that's important information for the rest of the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic153x.u57	Mr President, Minister, Electrabel has informed us of his decision to preheat the water of Doel 3's safety injection tanks structurally from now on at a temperature between 40 and 50°, which in any case cannot go beyond 50°, and of the fact that the implementation of his decision is now complete. This is a response that was communicated by Electrabel to the nuclear safety sub-committee. Why, while the situation is similar, is it not the same for the water preheating temperature of the Tihange 2 reservoirs? I do not understand the logic that it should be done to Doel but not to Tihange. Minister, what scientific or other factors do they explain such a divergence of action?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic153x.u58	Mr President, Mr Nollet, this difference in approach is linked to the precise location of the defect indications in the walls of the reactor vats. As far as Doel 3 is concerned, some of the fault indications are located in the first twenty millimetres of the tank wall, i.e. in the area closest to the reactor core. In the event of an urgent injection of cooling water, it is this area which receives the greatest temperature shock and which has to cope with the greatest tension. The extent of this temperature shock can be reduced by heating the emergency injection water. The part of the wall of the tank that lies behind this first part, therefore beyond the first twenty millimetres, is less strongly influenced by sudden cooling of the reactor core. The preheating of the emergency injection water makes no difference here from the tension experienced by the wall. As far as Tihange 2 is concerned, the indications of defects are essentially in this second part of the tank at a depth of more than 20 mm. This explains why Electrabel decided to preheat only Doel 3's emergency injection water and not Tihange 2's.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic153x.u59	Minister, again, thank you for your answer. I'm surprised, but I'm not going to improvise. I will review the graphs that were given in 2012 on the precise location of the various defects. I had in mind that the number of defects was less important in Tihange than in Doel but that the location in the depth of the wall was more or less similar. I hear what is said here and, if necessary, I will come back to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic153x.u60	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Ben Hamou's 3853 was postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic153x.u61	Minister, at his hearing in Parliament on 24 March, the Director General of AFCN left a doubt about the organisation of an international peer review before taking the decision on the 10-year extension of the life of Doel 1 and 2 power plants. I believe that such a SALTO mission is essential. It was also organized for Tihange 1. Mr. Bens left the doubt "in view of the reduced time available in the case of Doel 1 and 2." My question, which is not technical, is for the political leader you are. Will you accept, as the appropriate minister, that the AFCN will dispense with such a SALTO analysis for scheduling reasons that have nothing to do with nuclear safety and security? There would be pressure from the calendar, but it's not the federal agency's job. It must deal exclusively with security and safety aspects, no matter how long it takes. By the way, earlier, in one of your answers you said you had all the time. This involved Doel 3 and Tihange 2. You are right and I support you: you must first have all the analyses. But here, on Doel 1 and 2, we'd be depriving ourselves of that peer review, as if there was something to hide. Is it not appropriate for you to give clear instructions to AFCN from now on to make all the arrangements for this peer review to be organized, just as it was for Tihange 1?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic153x.u62	Mr Nollet, AFCN is in fact advocating the organisation of a SALTO mission for Doel 1 and 2 units, and it has also informed the IAEA in early 2015. The Commission replied that it was currently receiving numerous requests for missions and that, for organisational reasons, the Mission in Doel would therefore not be able to take place until 2016. Let us not lose sight of the fact that the IAEA is an independent international organization and that neither the AFCN nor the Minister can direct it to organize a mission without delay. A SALTO mission is a service proposed by the IAEA that normally has to be ordered 2 to 3 years in advance. As a reminder, in 2009, the then-in-place government announced that it was planning to amend the 2003 law on the release of nuclear power and postponing the closing date of the oldest units, Tihange 1 and Doel 1 and 2, to 2025. In the end, the federal government decided in 2013 to extend the life of Tihange 1 until 2025 but to close Doel 1 and 2, as planned, in 2015. In 2014, the competent minister will then order the SALTO mission for Tihange 1 from the IAEA.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic153x.u63	Minister, your answer is very clear, once again. But we see that there is a problem. Indeed, the Federal Agency advocates a SALTO for Doel 1 and Doel 2. It happens that you have no power of injunction over the international agency. This peer review SALTO can only be made in 2016. Don't you have any months to tell me? No! Okay! As a result, we'll have to wait. I assume, and that was the meaning of my question, that you are not going to say that because of this wait for a few months, we are going to "overtake" what the Federal Agency is advocating and what has been done in other situations. I'd like you to reassure me about this and we're still going to do that peer review before we make the decision. This was done for Tihange 1. For technical reasons, it will take a little time. You are not going to tell me today that we are going to break down security, because there is an emergency, whereas until now you have always said that "safety" and "security" prevailed over the issue of timing. This has always been your course of action, which I fully agree with! So rest assured of that!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic153x.u64	I added that we were following the advice of the AFCN, as always!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic153x.u65	In this case, too, given that the PSAN is advocating safety, you are going to do the SALTO, as you are following the advice of the Agency.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic153x.u66	Yes, I agree with the AFCN to shut down or reopen the power plants. Clearly, this federal government is committed to following the advice of the AFCN.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic153x.u67	In summary, you follow the Federal Agency! The Federal Agency advocates a SALTO. This can only be realized in 2016, CQFD: Doel 1 and Doel 2 will be the subject of a SALTO only in 2016.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic153x.u68	No, if the AFCN believes that we cannot reopen, the plant will remain closed, but if it says they can be reopened, with or without SALTO, we will follow the advice of the AFCN.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic153x.u69	But you just said that the AFCN called for a SALTO!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic153x.u70	To advocate a SALTO does not mean that you cannot reopen!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic153x.u71	Of course, we must have the SALTO done before!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic153x.u72	This is an additional study, an additional possibility, but I am not saying today that we will open it or not. It is the AFCN who will tell us at some point that security is enough to open. If she needs a SALTO, it is up to her to make the decision.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic153x.u73	I hear what you're saying here, but as you're bringing me the information that the Federal Agency is advocating a SALTO for Doel 1 and 2, things are done. I didn't have that information because they left the doubt.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic153x.u74	Next week, I'm going to the garage with my car to do a technical analysis of this one.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic153x.u75	So, I'm going to postpone my questions...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic153x.u76	That doesn't mean I'm not driving with my car from here until the garage check-up.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic153x.u77	Except for the SALTO, it's before the revivals. It's not after.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic153x.u78	I say and repeat that this is the opinion of the AFCN that we will follow to open, close, reopen, close. If the PSAN says that it does not want to give an opinion until it has done such an exercise or investigation, and if there is no opinion, we will not make a decision.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic153x.u79	I have the impression that you are turning around the pot while it is very clear: the Agency advocates a SALTO. And that must have been before.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic153x.u80	Minister, football clubs in the second national division must be equipped with many expensive infrastructure. I will illustrate my point with a concrete example of the surveillance camera system. According to the Royal Decree on the installation and operation of surveillance cameras in football stadiums, Division 1 and 2 clubs must have a relatively sharp surveillance camera system. This system requires considerable investment from clubs in the purchase of equipment, installation, maintenance, etc. This investment in clubs seems to be even more significant in terms of the budget available to these second division clubs. When we look at the low influx of football stadiums in this division today, we could legitimately ask ourselves whether it is useful to maintain such a level of security infrastructure. On the other hand, some clubs in the same division cannot keep up with the budgetary pace imposed by these provisions. Do these security infrastructure measures – including the installation of a surveillance camera system – seem to you to be proportionate for clubs operating in the second division? Shouldn't we consider making the rules more flexible for these clubs?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic153x.u81	Dear colleague, any organiser of national or international football meetings is subject to the application of the Royal Decree of 22 February 2006 on the installation of surveillance cameras in football stadiums. This royal decree also makes a distinction, in its obligations, between the organiser of meetings of first or second national division. This obligation makes it possible to obtain effective application of the football law, to identify and prosecute those who violate it. Supporters are informed of the presence of surveillance cameras, which reduces the feeling of impunity and enhances the effectiveness of the football law. When images of the stadium's camera system are available, they are transmitted via annexes to the minutes, allowing for effective follow-up of supporters. Failure to identify by an effective surveillance camera system would make prosecution of evidence difficult and could lead to the atmosphere of football stadiums similar to real chaos. Indeed, the number of incidents and disturbances would be increased by the absence of possible prosecutions. By installing an effective camera system, the organiser assumes his responsibilities for maintaining order and security in the stadium during football meetings. In the event of an incident, the camera system provides a good overview of crowd movements and the fluidity of the evacuation. Emergency response and crowd management are facilitated by a comprehensive view of the situation. As regards all the infrastructure obligations imposed on clubs operating in Division 2, these are justified by a concern to offer the public the guarantee of attending a match in an infrastructure which is not only pleasant but above all provides a sufficient level of security. These rules have been developed over time in the interests of security and in the light of past experiences.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic153x.u82	Minister, I am very much in favour of safety in the stadiums and I do not wish to see safety risks taken. The only problem is that when you're in Division 3 and you want to go up to Division 2, the standards are such that the team in mind doubts being able to follow. It's the same thing about cameras and stands. I remember a division 2 club that was supposed to go up to division 1 and to which colossal investments were required. Now, if you look at the attendance of these stadiums, by removing Bruges, the Standard and Anderlecht, they are all looking at each other in the gallery. In addition, the costs of these stands and cameras are often borne by municipalities and other public services. At the Maison de la culture de Tournai, which can accommodate a thousand people, when there is a performance, you do not put one more person. When there's no room, there's no room! In a football stadium, it's more or less the same thing. The Tournai Stadium can accommodate 7,500 people. We felt that if the team were to move into Division 1, the stadium should be able to accommodate the Juventus every day. In my opinion, championships are even distorted because there are people who don't dare invest. I understand them, I'm the first one not to want to invest too much in it, because it lasts what it lasts.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic153x.u83	Mr Delannois, I understand your position. Kapelle, champion of the 3rd A, didn't apply for her license.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic153x.u84	That is why there is a reform in division 2. There are clubs that want to go up to division 2, some don't go up and some don't even want to go up to division 1.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic153x.u85	So there's a problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic153x.u86	Mr. President, Minister, the SPC, the Railway Police, provides security at the various stations across the country. In the province of Hainaut, it is the antennas located at the station of Mons and Charleroi that ensure the safety of the whole area. At the station of Tournai, when the SPC has to intervene, it must come from Mons. It takes a considerable amount of time for the intervention, you will agree. I therefore wonder why an SPC antenna is not present at the station in Tournai. This city is in the center of many other cities: Mouscron, Ath, Leuze, Lessines, etc. Minister, how do we determine the stations where the SPC antennas are located? Do you not find that Tournai, by his geographical location, would need an antenna within his station?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic153x.u87	Mr Delannois, the decentralised services of the Directorate of the Railway Police are installed in certain stations which have been chosen according to different parameters:- the number of passengers per day, the crime rate in the station and the trains which go there; - a service per borough and a position as central as possible to avoid excessive distances of movement during operations at other stations, trains or tracks within the boundaries of that borough; - a total number of services limited to the amount of staff provided for the railway police throughout the territory in order to guarantee an equivalent minimum service between all boroughs. Currently, the services are located in or near the following stations: Liège-Guillemins, Namur, Charleroi-Sud, Mons, Libramont, Bruxelles-Midi, Bruxelles-Nord, Antwerp-Central, Leuven, Hasselt, Ghent-Saint-Pierre and Bruges. In Brussels, the railway police are responsible for safety at a higher number of stations and at all metro stations. It is also important to know that security at stations other than those where a railway police service is located is provided by the local police. This principle is spelled out in the Ministerial Circular of 15 April 2002 on the responsibility of the administrative authorities and the division of labour between the police in the field of safety in the railways. The province of Hainaut, unlike the others, benefits from the presence of the railway police in two stations (South Charleroi and Mons) among other things to avoid too long movements in case of need of intervention at other stations such as that of Tournai. The current capacity of the railway police does not allow for an extension of services and therefore the installation of antennas in other stations. In Hainaut, railway police are more active than in other provinces.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic153x.u88	Minister, you understand that your answer does not necessarily satisfy me, even if there are two branches in Hainaut. Mrs Galant referred to what Mr Cornu said, which I do not agree with at all. The problem is that when you deliver information, the press amplifies it. In this case, we were almost describing Tournai as a new Chicago, which is not the case. I don't know if you have figures for other stations. In any case, for the perimeter of the station and boulevard, there were 1.2 calls to the local police. Previously, there was an antenna in Tournai, which was really dissuasive. At the moment, you are quite certain that, if anything happens there and we call the Mons SPC, water will have sank under the bridges before it intervenes. Moreover, if the police in Tournai are not there, the problem will only get worse. That is why I continue to plead for a presence – even if it is limited – in the station, because it can bring positive effects.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic153x.u89	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Gilkinet's 3915 was converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Cassart-Mailleux's 3941 was postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic153x.u90	Mr President, Deputy Prime Minister, last week a report from Committee P on the Brussels dispatch services of 101 appeared. This study was initiated and carried out in 2010 and the results of the analysis by zone and by federal police service were not communicated until October 2012. Today, therefore, it is certain that changes and improvements have taken place and I would like to know what changes have taken place. So, Minister, my questions are as follows. There had been a discussion of the drafting of a common text on best practices in dispatching at the Brussels level, in particular by the President of the Conference of Brussels Chiefs of Staff, in collaboration with the managers of the dossier in Committee P. What is the situation today with the drafting of this note? An updated version would be useful five years after the completion of this study and two and a half years after the results of the P Committee's report were communicated to the police. Within the Brussels-West police zone, the various actors are particularly satisfied with the knowledge of the field by dispatchers and with the support provided in certain interventions. On the other hand, the report highlighted a marked disparity between federal police units and local police units in terms of field knowledge and intervention experience. Has this point evolved today? The point concerning the knowledge of the terrain seems to me to be particularly important for the police of rail and railways. Indeed, knowledge of the public transport network, metro stations and interactions with metro services are essential elements of operation. What are the developments at this level? In the report, the quality of radio communications and the quality of communications equipment in general were repeatedly cited as areas for improvement. It is therefore clear that timely and accurate communication is essential in priority missions and interventions. Has this point been improved? Also in the context of communication on bilingualism, the language regime of stakeholders has been repeatedly highlighted as unsatisfactory. What is the current situation? In the end, what are the major changes in the different services since 2010, in staff, dispatching, training, management methods and procedures and in the search for information?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic153x.u91	Mr President, dear colleague, a report was drawn up by the P Committee in 2010. At that time, the Chiefs of Corps wished to meet with the drafter of the report for clarification on the content of the text. However, the initiative taken by the Chiefs of Staff was not heard by Committee P. In conclusion, there is currently no common text incorporating good practices in dispatching at the regional level. Nevertheless, initiatives at the level of zonal dispatchers have been taken to improve response procedures. The Federal Police is responsible for call taking 101 at the level of the CIC in Brussels. However, it is the police areas that provide dispatching in the Brussels Region and the interventions, with the exception of those in the train stations and the metro. In accordance with the circular of 15 April 2002 of the then Minister of the Interior and the memorandums of understanding between the Federal Police and the areas concerned, the SPC Métro Bruxelles of the Federal Police has direct jurisdiction over indoor interventions, therefore, in the Brussels metro. Today, the federal police officers of SPC Métro are familiar with their environment and there is coordination between the local police and the federal police. As regards the quality of communications, an effort was made by SA ASTRID, in particular for the installation of masts in certain areas where coverage was not effective. In addition, a special budget for the maintenance of these masts was also released. In other words, the masts are maintained. With regard to the fourth question on the problem of bilingualism, it is the responsibility of the heads of corps, when allocating staff during a job, to dispatcher, to be attentive to the knowledge of the two national languages in use in the Brussels Capital Region. To our knowledge, no major incidents of misdirection during an intervention have been reported to the various administrative police authorities. Finally, with regard to training, methods, procedures and supervision, it is the responsibility of the Chief of Staff to ensure that trained personnel are available in accordance with the profession of callaker and/or dispatcher. The Chiefs of Staff are more attentive to customer orientation and have installed a greater professionalism of the profession. We can note that urgent response times are more than reasonable in large cities.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic153x.u92	I thank the minister for these answers. I understand that the Chiefs of Staff were not received by the managers of the file. I take note of that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic153x.u93	But the P Committee depends on Parliament...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic153x.u94	So, we can follow up...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic153x.u95	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Fonck's 3946 is considered withdrawn because Mrs Fonck is not present. Debates of the European Parliament 3739 and Question No Mr Maingain (S). - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Debates of the European Parliament 3973, Question No Question No 3974 and Question No Mr Pivin (S). - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Demon's 3984 was postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic153x.u96	Minister, this government rightly regards cybercrime as one of its priorities. A Cybersecurity Centre will be set up to focus, inter alia, on the fight against organised cybercrime. Also in the context of your statement earlier, I believe that cybersecurity, and everything that has to do with it, should be one of the priorities. We can see that the Federal Computer Crime Unit has been struggling with an understaff for years. Since the beginning of this century, the number of employees has fallen. Figures that you have previously released show that the budgets for specific research materials and crime reports are inversely proportional. In other words, declarations are rising and budgets are falling. So, Minister, I have the following questions. Is there any provision for budgetary measures to boost the fight against cybercrime in the short term? Does that mean a shift in budgets or is it new budgets? Will you reinforce the Federal Computer Crime Unit? If yes, how many VTEs will there possibly be? Is recruitment of detectives specialised in cybercrime planned at the level of the judicial districts? How many recruitments will there be this year and how many by the end of the legislature?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic153x.u97	Mr President, Mrs Temmerman, I will deal with your first two questions together, as will your third and fourth questions. During the last budget check, additional funds were indeed made available to make additional recruitments this year to federal police units and services responsible for combating terrorism and cybercrime. The Computer Crime Units form an important link in this. A budget has already been provided for this year to recruit additional forces to fight cybercrime. That'll be between 50 and 60.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic153x.u98	In addition?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic153x.u99	Come on, come on, come on, As far as your third and fourth questions are concerned, the new operation lays down a clear division of tasks. Thus, in accordance with the law on police optimisation, the regional CCUs of the capitals of the courts of appeal will be entrusted with specialised investigations into serious and organised ICT crime. This will allow the federal CCU to focus more on its supporting task of expertise and development in favour of regional CCUs. The additional researchers will thus be placed in the regional CCUs. In addition, external specialists will be hired to support the research teams. A number of experts will be added to the regional CCUs and to DSU, the special units that are also involved in cybercrime. By the end of the legislative term, we will have adopted 121 additional members for the various CCUs. In addition, the budget negotiations also provide an envelope for investment. On the one hand, there is a structural envelope for recruitment and, on the other hand, an envelope for investment. The split is still fine tuned and will become clear in the near future. There, too, it is clearly stated that additional investments will be made in the CCUs, because if they have to work with Windows 98, then the ranger will be very far away from the poacher. There, too, a catch-up movement is planned, the specific budget of which will be determined in the near future. It is important to do this as soon as possible because a budget is one thing, but we must also be able to follow the procedure for spending that budget. This is very urgent, but we are currently putting the finishing touches to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic153x.u100	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Are the budgets you are talking about additional budgets?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic153x.u101	Yes, we have released EUR 135 million from the budget exercise, and I quote the figures from the main heading for additional staff, some EUR 35 million of which are in my department. We have also released an envelope of 200 million for investment, most of which goes to security aspects, i.e. terra- and computer crime.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic153x.u102	All the questions on the agenda have been dealt with. We've stayed well within the time frame. This has to do with the fact that some of the questioners kept their question shorter than usual.
