ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic271x.u1	Colleagues, we'll be working until 11:30. Let us try to be effective both in the formulation of questions and in the answers and replies.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic271x.u2	Minister, if my question dates back to June, the news has attracted the attention of other colleagues. Today, a new element is added since the European Food Safety Authority, when it published its report of 12 November last, declared that it was unlikely that Roundup, and particularly glyphosate, was carcinogenic. To be exact, I repeat the words: "Experts have concluded that it is unlikely that glyphosate is genotoxic, i.e. that it damages DNA, or that it constitutes a carcinogenic threat to humans." However, in France, the Minister of Ecology announced in June the over-the-counter ban in the gardens of Monsanto's Roundup weedless. A similar approach has also been taken in the Netherlands. Indeed, the World Health Organization has recognized one of the active ingredients of this product, glyphosate, as a probable human carcinogen. At the time, several environmental associations sent you and the Minister of Public Health a letter to raise your awareness of this issue and asked for an in-depth analysis of the use of glyphosate in agriculture and its impact on the environment. The findings of the EFSA (European Food Safety Authority) run counter to those of the WHO and the International Cancer Research Centre, which in its time had published a rather worrying but unproven paper on the subject. Minister, what is Belgium's position on this matter? Each country may or may not allow commercial products containing one or more active substances approved by Europe to be placed on the market on its territory. Have any studies already been carried out in Belgium on the impact on consumer health and the environment? EFSA has set an acceptable level of operator exposure at 0.1 mg per kg body weight per day and an acceptable daily dose for consumers. It was established in line with the acute reference dose of 0.5 mg per kg body weight. We know that, by nature, the agricultural world is a major consumer of plant protection products. Do you have any idea of the daily intake of glyphosate that Belgian farmers absorb? Are the limits prescribed by EFSA exceeded? According to some French studies, there is a 2.6-fold increase in the risk of cancer such as a brain tumor among those most exposed to pesticides – in this case farmers and wine growers. In this regard, can you inform us about the consumption of this product by the agricultural sector? Is its removal envisaged without prejudice to this sector? Are there other solutions? Finally, as far as individuals are concerned, from the end of the year all businesses offering to sell plant protection products will have to have qualified staff with recognised specific training, phytolicence, as well as communication tools to advise buyers as best they can. This type of sale should thus become more professional, so that the consumer will be better informed, in particular about precautions for use. Where are you in the development of these measures?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic271x.u3	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, my two questions are in line with the previous one. As my colleague says, the World Health Organisation has indeed published an opinion highlighting the carcinogenic hazard. Four products have already been banned in Europe, but one fifth of them are not. We suspect that there is a lot of lobbying on this. I am not going to repeat everything my colleague has already said. However, we are concerned that EFSA advises to renew the license for satsumas after a delay was first requested. The Authority's analysis is based on that of the competent German department. We find that rather remarkable because that service has often been under attack, because he is not considering certain recent studies that indicate the harmfulness of arthropods. My questions are as follows. Will you follow this objectionable opinion of the EFSA blindly? Perhaps you should not follow the example of companies such as GAMMA in the Netherlands, which, as a precautionary measure, have removed those products from the racks? Will you also encourage Belgian companies to do the same as in the Netherlands? Despite EFSA's opinion, will you nevertheless take precautions and put harmful products behind the counter, so that consumers can first receive advice and explanations from a trained staff member? This is already common in Germany. Mr Minister, on 17 June I asked you a question about the banning of turnips as a precautionary measure. It has been stipulated that staff must have been trained in this area by 24 November, i.e. next week. U hebt toen letterlijk gezegd: I would also like to point out that from the end of November, all shops offering plant protection products for sale will have to have qualified personnel with a recognised specific training, phytolicence, as well as communication tools to advise buyers as best as possible. That's very clear. It's almost November 24th. Has the staff been trained? In the meantime, has all the staff obtained the phyto-licensing, or almost? If not, what measures are in favour of this? What should businesses whose staff are not trained? Do they have to remove those products from the racks or put them behind the counter? Do companies themselves pay the phyto-licensing of their employees or do the government intervene in this? Is it not easier and cheaper for many companies to simply remove those harmful products from the shelves instead of training the entire staff? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic271x.u4	Madam President, Minister, at the end of April, a coalition of environmental associations asked the Public Health FPS to remove the Roundup from the list of pesticides intended for individuals and authorized for sale and to conduct an analysis of its impact on the environment and public health. In March, this product was classified as a probable human carcinogen by the WHO International Centre for Cancer Research (IARC). The experts of the European Food Safety Authority (EFSA), based on the evaluation carried out by a German institute, do not reach the same conclusions in a report published on 12 November. According to EFSA, there would be no problem with glyphosate. This substance would not be genotoxic and would not require classification as a carcinogen in European regulations on the classification, labelling and packaging of chemicals. This divergence of opinion is all the more compelling since this active substance is found in the Roundup but also in other products that are intended for professionals and individuals alike. It should be noted that at European level the authorisation of glyphosate expires at the end of December 2015. This EFSA opinion is part of the re-evaluation of the risks of glyphosate to renew its authorisation in Europe. Minister, how is it that the experts are divided on the subject? What have produced different results? How do you look at these two opinions? In your opinion, depending on the procedure used, what opinion seems to take more into account all the factors likely to influence the results? The composition of the working group that provided the analysis of EFSA raises some doubts as to the impartiality of its members. There are also concerns about possible pressure from industrialists on the report. Do you have any information on this? How do you position yourself, under these circumstances, on a renewal of Glyphosate authorization?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic271x.u5	Minister, since my questions have the same purpose, I will confine myself to referring to a few additional elements. I would like to stress that the World Health Organization must be one of our references to health. The latter was pronounced by classifying glyphosate as Category 2A, i.e., the one containing the probable carcinogenic substances. To date, more than 300 studies have shown that Roundup is tumorigenic and acts as a residue. To complete my colleague's question on doses, I would say that this type of product even acts at particularly low doses, especially when these are repeated. These substances are stored in the plant and spread inside the human body. Three hundred studies, that's not nothing! Your government, in its health policies, considers evidence-based medicine and international literature as references and the way forward. We have here elements that highlight the dangerous, toxic nature, with different effects on women and men. The International Centre for Research on Cancer (IARC) has also highlighted the increased risk of cancer for professional users of this product, such as gardeners and farmers. Indeed, when it comes to the health of agricultural and horticultural professionals, it is frightening to see that, as early as 50 years, they suffer from cancers or diseases caused by exposure to these toxic products. Alternatives exist. For example, two researchers at the University of Liège have developed a manufacturing process that allows for the production of a large quantity of powerful and entirely natural pesticides, thanks to the weeding power of a toxin released by a bacterium. In order to support research, local production and employment, alongside the defence of health, we must give ourselves the opportunity to use these alternatives. How? By banning Roundup. In my opinion, the authorization to use this poison was extended for six months. But you have the opportunity to ban it on the Belgian market. What are you going to do about it?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic271x.u6	Madam President, this issue is indeed extremely important and I intend to give it careful attention, as is the case with all the issues that pose potential risks to public health. We have already discussed in detail the publication of the International Cancer Research Centre at the Commission on 17 June. I am following closely the evolution of scientific knowledge on the potential risks of plant protection products. I also took the publication very seriously and asked my administration to analyse the dossier in detail and to follow it closely. When the IARC published its full study at the end of July 2015, the European Commission asked EFSA, the European Food Safety Authority, to consider the study in the context of its review of the renewal of the approval of arthropods at European level. A Belgian specialist in toxicology has also contributed to the analysis of the study. The Authority, which is an independent authority, finally published its opinion on satsumas on 12 November 2015. In this opinion, EFSA concluded that it is unlikely that phenylalanine is carcinogenic to humans. EFSA has based itself on the report of the rapporteur Member State, namely, as you have indicated, Germany, but also on the relevant studies published over the last ten years, with the collaboration of representatives of the risk assessment bodies of the Member States. This conclusion, while contradicting the IARC opinion, confirms the conclusions of the majority of international toxicological bodies. I therefore call for a great deal of nuance in the analysis that this decision would be the result of the role played by lobbies. The differences in conclusions between EFSA and IARC can be explained by several elements which are detailed in the EFSA public notice, including the fact that the European authorities have based themselves on a significantly larger database than that used by IARC and have given greater weight to broader epidemiological studies. It should be noted that EFSA also proposes a new safety measure in the form of a maximum exposure threshold for the population that will strengthen the control of residues of glyphosate in food. It is on the basis of this opinion that a decision will soon be taken by the experts of the Member States on a possible renewal of the approval of glyphosate at European level. I have asked the Belgian representatives to analyse very carefully, on the basis of all available scientific data, the Commission's proposal by applying, of course, the precautionary principle. In addition, I would like to inform you that the SPF will publish, in a few days' time, information on the analysis of the EFSA's opinion on glyphosate, which explains why its conclusion is different from that of IARC. This analysis will be available and published in a few days on phytoweb.be. It should also be borne in mind that substances authorised at European level still have to be authorised at national level in order to be placed on the market in the form of products, following a further in-depth study of the risks to human health and the environment. In this context, and for approved final products, measures will be taken to ensure the safe and correct use of plant protection products. Both amateur and professional users are thus obliged to follow carefully the precautionary measures and the maximum dosages defined in the conditions of use of plant protection products. In addition, certain products with specific risks can only be sold and used by highly qualified persons. With regard to the six-month extension of the approval of glyphosate, this is in fact a horizontal measure that applies to 23 substances for which approval expires on 31 December 2015. This temporary extension was decided to ensure that approvals do not expire until they have been able to decide whether or not to renew these substances. In the case of glyphosate, for example, EFSA's opinion was delayed to include the analysis of the IARC report. I would point out that these extensions, limited to six months, are acceptable as they are justified by the length of time necessary to carry out as thorough an assessment as possible of the risks of these substances or the possible risks of these substances. According to the information available for my administration, plant protection products containing glyphosate are authorised in the 28 Member States of the European Union. Therefore, no Member State would have withdrawn glyphosate from its market at this stage even if intentions and announcements were made, in particular, in France. An announcement is not yet a decision. I would also remind you, as you invited me to do, that from 25 November, all stores offering plant protection products for sale will have to have qualified staff to advise the buyers of these products as best as possible. This measure applies to all plant protection products and not only to fertilizers. The qualification of the personnel is recognised by obtaining a phyto-licensing licence issued by my administration, either on the basis of sufficient experience in handling or selling these products, or following an approved training. The sellers and consultants must pay 220 euro file costs for obtaining the phytolicense. To date, my administration has issued some 70 000 phyto-licensing certificates. Despite late arrivals, the sectors are generally ready for these new provisions which will enter into force on 25 November. These new requirements will also professionalize the sale of these products. Sales in non-specialized stores such as food stores can be expected to decline. Other requirements, such as the sale behind the counter, are not currently envisaged in Belgium, but could be considered in the future if necessary and based on the evaluation of the new system. As you can see, from the analytical point of view, from the scientific point of view, from the work we have done here, from the precautionary principles or from the precautions for use, we are following this issue with the utmost attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic271x.u7	Minister, I thank you for this extremely precise answer, which I am satisfied with, because you have shown how attentive you are to the risks that there may be to the health of users. Moreover, you are ready with the measures at the level of the sale of the products, since 70,000 people have obtained this phytolicence. In this way I think that everyone will be more attentive to the acquisition of this type of product. It is with great care that I will be aware of the analysis of the opinion which will be issued shortly.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic271x.u8	You have given a comprehensive answer, Mr Minister, but we do not agree on the definition of the precautionary principle. You say very frequently that you are using the precautionary principle, but the definition of the precautionary principle means that if one still suspects that something can cause health problems, one will act accordingly. You are taking a number of cautious measures, but I do not think you are applying the precautionary principle as I define it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic271x.u9	Minister, thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic271x.u10	As for me, I agree with my colleague, Dedry. I think that in the studies there is a lack of analysis on the low thresholds of repeated and multiple exposures. This is one of the demands you have to make if you are really concerned about the precautionary principle. You have to demand that this kind of study be done because the facts are there: there are significant health problems among people working in the agricultural sector in the broad sense. And it's kind of like you don't care because you get regular findings that it's unlikely. But the facts are there!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic271x.u11	Madam President, Minister, in 2013, Coca-Cola, under pressure from a California decision, decided to change the recipe for its soda by changing the dyes used. In the present case, the presence of 4-methylimidazone (4-MEI), a substance in the caramel dye, is found in sweet or sweetened beverages, such as Coca and confectionery. The 4-MEI molecule, which is included in the composition of two types of dyes, E-150c and E-150d, is considered to be carcinogenic beyond a certain threshold defined by the European Food Safety Authority. The maximum permitted daily doses are 300 mg/kg for E-150d and 100 mg/kg for E-150c. EFSA states that the 4-MEI rate in sodas does not pose an immediate danger to consumers - the rate in Coca, in this case, is below this threshold. Nevertheless, the experts consider it prudent to keep the concentration of the molecule of these dyes as low as possible. Minister, what is the status of regulation at European level to date? Have the maximum limits for these dyes in foodstuffs been changed by the European Commission? Have any further assessments of the potential health risks of these substances been or will they be carried out in the near future? Do you consider it necessary to take certain measures to further protect consumers? Is it not necessary to further inform the public about these potential risks?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic271x.u12	Mr President, the safety of the food chain is part of my remit, which is why I am taking up this question which was originally addressed to my colleague Mrs De Block. Of course, on all these issues, I am acting in consultation with the latter. Food additives are, as you know, regulated at European level by Regulation 1333/2008. It is constantly evolving, in line with advances in scientific knowledge, as reflected in the various changes adopted since 2008. These legislative amendments are proposed in the light of requests for authorization, requests for clarification and analyses. All these changes can be found on the website of the Public Health, Food Chain Safety and Environment FPS, which can be found at www.health.belgium.be/eportal/foodsafety/foodstuffs/additives. I have the details here, as reference is made to this Regulation 1333/2008. As regards the additive 4-MEI, which you mention, a review of the conditions of use of this caramel dye in beer and malted beverages was adopted in 2014, following an opinion from the European Food Safety Authority. A series of authorisations for use have been abolished and certain specific provisions for caramel colouring in meat preparations have been amended. We also find them on the same public health FPS website via a specific reference that I communicate directly to you, the same website with reference 190/97/353, for identifying this particular information. This EFSA opinion assessed the population's exposure to this dye on the basis of extreme theoretical consumption cases and set maximum consumption limits. In order to measure the concentrations of this dye in many foods on the Belgian market, and thus to estimate the actual exposure of the consumer, my administration recently financed a study conducted by VITO (Vlaamse Instelling voor Techonologistsch Onderzoek), entitled "Study of the contribution of THI and 4-MEI contaminants to the Belgian population by caramel ammoniaal and ammonium sulphite caramel food dyes". This study has just been completed and has shown that the estimated exposure is lower than that established by EFSA. The report of this study will be communicated via the usual channels as soon as it is finalized and will also be transmitted to EFSA. As soon as this study is communicated to me, I can make it available to the committee. There is, therefore, no scientific basis for further consumer protection measures at this time. Of course, I remain very attentive to this issue, in accordance with the precautionary principle, which I consider extremely rigorous and which also applies to these provisions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic271x.u13	Minister, thank you. This concerns many common consumer products, so the concern could be significant. The study leads to relatively reassuring conclusions and it will be interesting to be able to learn about them.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic271x.u14	Question No 6503 by Mrs Pas is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic271x.u15	Minister, I have repeatedly drawn attention to food waste in this committee. I think this is one of the biggest challenges of the 21st century. A third of the food produced is wasted during production and distribution, while many people still live in poverty and have to rely on food banks and local food distributions through institutions and soup kitchens. The federal government agreement pays particular attention to food waste and clearly states that the fight against food waste is an important focus. In the opinion of 24 April 2015, the Federal Council for Sustainable Development itself supports a structural dialogue between federal and regional authorities in the fight against food loss and waste. The Council considers that the federal government should take the initiative and also play a coordinating role in relation to its own initiatives and those of the regional authorities. The Council envisages the creation of a national cross-cutting platform Food, similar to the Flemish chain platform. The federal government should also support regional initiatives. In this context, I would have liked to ask you the following questions. What initiatives have you taken to consult these regional authorities? What was the timing and content of these initiatives? What is your view on the Council's opinion on the establishment of a cross-cutting national food platform? What initiatives do you plan to support the Flemish objectives, as described in the Ketenroadmap Food Loss 2015-2020? More specifically, what actions do you intend to take to implement the coalition agreement and fight against food waste?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic271x.u16	Mrs Hufkens, the fight against food waste is one of my policy priorities. I have already taken various initiatives in the area of food safety within my competence. However, these initiatives have been taken from the point of view of reducing food waste. At the same time, consumers must be protected to the maximum and the safety of food in this circuit must be guaranteed permanently, as it is not an option to create a two-speed food safety. Among other things, it was decided to simplify the administrative rules on food surpluses, so that they do not hinder donations. Furthermore, the BFSA supports the charities by organising targeted training and providing concrete guidelines on the sustainability, labelling and freezing of food. The BFSA also makes work of sensitizing both consumers and operators in the food chain by means of training, conversion letters, the website and various publications. As regards the opinion of the Federal Council for Sustainable Development, it is in favour of structural consultation at federal level between federal and regional authorities and sees a role for the Inter-Ministerial Conference on Sustainable Development. I can fully support this vision and I will support the initiatives taken by the Inter-Ministerial Conference on Sustainable Development. I am also certainly willing to contribute to a national platform on food waste, in which the various stakeholders.governments, businesses and civil society are represented. The food agency, which is already represented in the existing consultation bodies on food waste, can certainly play a role in this. The fight against food waste is also linked to the food aid sector. The Fund for European Aid to the Most Deprived, FEAD, is also within my competence. In this context, the Social Integration PPS organised a colloquium on the future of food aid in Belgium on 28 April 2015. Food waste was also an important theme during this day of study. One of the conclusions was that there are already many interesting local and regional initiatives, but there is virtually no coordination. I am therefore open to initiatives to bring together the relevant authorities and stakeholders in a council or consultation platform to better coordinate the ongoing actions and strengthen each other's functioning, including the exchange of best practice. With regard to supporting the Flemish objectives included in the Ketenroadmap Food Loss 2015-2020, I can inform you that the BFSA is an involved partner at various action points on food safety aspects. For example, it concerns the contribution of the hygiene directives promoted in the Restorestjes action, the support of the Internet application concerned to facilitate food donations and the consultation at national and European level. I can assure you that I will continue to take initiatives in the future and remain available to support partner initiatives to combat food waste.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic271x.u17	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. You were very clear. Many local and regional initiatives already exist. A resolution on food waste has just been adopted in Flanders. So there is something already, but coordination is really waiting. You say that you are in favour of coordination, but perhaps you need to pull more weight and take the initiative yourself, because I think that you are standing on the sidelines with no commitment. I had another suggestion. I think it is very good that the administrative rules on food donations were amended. Your colleague Van Overtveldt has reduced VAT to make food gifts easier. The problem is that at the moment we cannot really measure whether this has had an effect on the field. There are no figures available on the number of donations. Perhaps your administration should find out if there are any effects on the field.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic271x.u18	Minister, an EU method for the determination of PCBs was published in March. It concerns an official method for the determination of PCBs in animal feed and raw materials. According to this new regulation, which I read in the EU publication, two methods are open to choice. The EU therefore leaves the complete freedom of choice between two extraction methods and no objective criterion has been included for this. Depending on the method used, therefore, little or many PCBs can be found. This may involve risk derivatives and we are therefore not sure that a laboratory chooses the method of extraction which finds low results or high results, so abuses could arise. That reminds me of the diesel scandal at Volkswagen. It is incomprehensible that further research should not be carried out and that the authorities should not have an extraction method imposed by law in approved laboratories. Do you agree with the EU that leaves complete freedom of choice for the determination of PCBs without clear criteria? Is the method applied in Belgium by the food labs? How often do they opt for the low-result method instead of the high-result method? Have you heard of cases of abuse in Belgium?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic271x.u19	Ms Dedry, the latest amendment to European legislation on the determination of dioxin-like PCBs and non-dioxin-like PCBs dates from June 2014. In your question you refer to a publication in March in the Official Journal of the European Union. We assume that this will be about the publication in March 2012 of a regulation extending the previous European rules, including those relating to the analysis, to the non-dioxin-like PCBs, formerly referred to as marker PCBs. It is important to note that European rules on the determination of dioxin-like PCBs and non-dioxin-like PCBs impose numerous quality assurance criteria on the methods of analysis to be used. However, it does not impose detailed methods and does not contain any recipes for cookery which must be followed literally by laboratory technicians. However, contrary to what you claim in your question, it lays down strict criteria to be met by the methods of analysis. Laboratories shall be free to use any method they consider appropriate, provided that they demonstrate compliance with, for example, sensitivity and accuracy requirements. In addition, laboratories must demonstrate this to the auditing and supervising authorities, such as BELAC, the BFSA and the National Reference Laboratory. Those bodies will only grant them the accreditation necessary to be active in this area after a positive evaluation. An important aspect of the evidence of competence with regard to auditing and supervising authorities is the regular participation in so-called inter- lab comparative tests. In the inter- Laboratory comparative tests, laboratories, including the National Reference Laboratory and the European Reference Laboratory, shall analyse samples with levels of dioxins and PCBs unknown to them and shall subsequently compare the results obtained with the actual levels present. Furthermore, a laboratory will typically use only one method for the product concerned and the matrix concerned. I am confident that the quality assurance criteria laid down in the legislation and the way in which they are implemented by laboratories under the supervision of various authorities provide the best guarantee of reliable analytical results. The BFSA has never detected a problem so far.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic271x.u20	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I didn't get something right. You mentioned June 2014, and you pointed out that I did not find the most recent criteria, because they would have been extended then. Did I get that correctly?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic271x.u21	The most recent amendment to European legislation dates from June 2014.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic271x.u22	Madam President, Minister, in our country, as in the rest of Europe, we are faced with an enormous increase in asylum seekers as a result of the war in the Middle East and in other countries. We're almost double as it is. We expect at least twice as many asylum applications this year compared to last year. Last year there were 17 000 applications and we already have about 30 000 applications. By the end of the year, 40 000 applications are expected in our country. A longitudinal study conducted over a period of 10 years by the Centre for Equal Opportunities and the fight against racism has shown that not every asylum seeker or recognised refugee receives a living wage. This also makes sense, because one has to be needy if one is to receive a living wage. That is the first criterion. Moreover, one must, of course, be prepared to work. This study showed that 57% of asylum seekers are entitled to a living wage once recognised. The other 43 % does not receive a living wage because part of it works or is not needy. After four years, it was found that the number of persons still receiving a living wage had fallen to 25%. Some of them also come to the OCMW because they are looking for a home. The federal government is competent for bed, bath and bread, as long as one is an asylum seeker, but once one is recognized, one has the right to settle in our country and choose a municipality to live there. Then you can contact the OCMW, both for financial support and for guidance in the search for a home. Especially with the current influx, we see that many more people are also outflowing and being recognised. Just yesterday, the Secretary of State told me that about 400 people are currently recognised per week and leaving the shelters. They then have to look for a municipality to settle there, to check with the OCMW and ask for support to look for a home for example. We know that a lot of OCMWs are really doing their best to support the refugees. It goes without saying, however, that there is now more work because there are more people knocking on the door. It is also a good thing that the living wage is paid back by the federal government at 100%, but because the social workers also need guidance, especially in the future in the search for a home, the OCMWFs need additional support. They're asking for extra support. That's what I hear every time I go to speak in the city councils, and that's almost every night. They ask for extra support, because they want to help the people who knock, but with the current staff they cannot handle it. What additional efforts will this government make to provide additional support to the OMCWs, so that this refugee crisis can be dealt with properly?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic271x.u23	Madam President, Minister, according to the Social Integration SPF, we have seen a decrease in the support provided by CPAS for asylum-seeking refugee candidates, from €344 million in 2013 to €283 million in 2014. This was due to a decline in the reception of asylum seekers. Currently, everyone can see an increase in the number of asylum seekers. I do not take up everything Mrs Lanjri has put forward at length. It's no use; everyone knows the situation. An intervention is made, either by integration income or by equivalent aid, and CPAS receive this 100% repayment for five years. As Mrs Lanjri has told you, I too believe that other elements that integration income or equivalent financial assistance must be taken into account, namely staff, logistics, interpreters, etc. so that CPAS can provide effective and high-quality work. Minister, beyond the fact that the Wallonia CPAS Federation has sent you a letter to have an appointment with you to discuss these various problems, the question is simple: do you intend to identify additional resources for CPAS beyond this coverage of integration income or equivalent financial assistance? If so, what is the amount and on what basis is this amount estimated?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic271x.u24	Minister, Mrs Lanjri has already said that there are many refugees. OMCWs are important actors to help people integrate into our society. A call has been made to the OCMWFs to record their commitment. We see that Geraardsbergen, for example, refuses to do so. The liberal mayor says that Geraardsbergen already has a lot of life laborers and that no one can reach them anymore. Other municipalities are also calling the alarm bell. After recognition, we notice that the refugees come to the OCMW of a city or municipality. You may know, but I have proposed a dispersal plan to ensure that all local authorities and OCMW are committed and that there will be a common basis to promote integration. Just so we're clear, this isn't just about money for me. Housing and, above all, education will become major challenges. For example, we see the first very difficult housing dossiers in Antwerp. OMCWs must accompany those refugees. It is therefore very necessary for refugees to be spread throughout the country, otherwise the OMCW will not be able to take up their role. That guidance is essential. Because of the current economic situation and the reorganisation imposed on local authorities by higher authorities, there are often no resources left, even if they want to provide guidance. For the record, I know from experience that it is often the OCMW, yet a lower level of government, that has to pay the bill and clean up most of it. We see a lot of shifts towards security policy and police, and OCMWs have to pay the price for that. I would like to have an answer to two specific questions. How many additional reception points should be provided for by the OCMWFs? Do you provide additional funding for the support of recognised refugees, especially with the emphasis on housing?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic271x.u25	Colleagues, at the meeting of the Council of Ministers on 11 October 2015, it was decided to set up a new interdepartmental commission for 2016 to cover the costs of the different expenditures on asylum and migration. This fee of EUR 350 million was entered in the 2016 budget and aims to enable the departments to cope with the additional costs incurred during the financial year as a result of the different expenditure that could be incurred on asylum and migration. On the basis of the needs, the departments concerned may apply for the additional appropriations required. During the financial year, the appropriations will be distributed at fixed intervals on the basis of a redistribution decision to be discussed in the Council of Ministers and by providing the necessary supporting documents and a favourable opinion from the Finance Inspectorate. A specific procedure in this respect still needs to be laid down. For Social Integration, the calculation of the above-mentioned commission took into account an amount of EUR 172,2 million, which is at the top of the 2016 initial budget. Additional resources should be allocated to support the recognised refugees, the living wage and assistance to persons under the subsidiary protection status, the equivalent living wage. Moreover, we must also assume that a certain number of persons whose asylum application will be refused will call for urgent medical assistance. I must insist that this estimate is provisional, subject to possible changes. In my calculations, I relied on the CGRA's temporary forecasts, of which I am very close to the situation. My firm is represented in the meetings of the relevant platforms. I was based on an estimate of a recognition of 21 000 people with integration income in 2016. As we know, this figure can change depending on the management of the files. The recognition rate is currently around 57%. 05.05 (...): 60 %.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic271x.u26	Maybe 60% now. That was 57% at the time the answer was written. I am also informed of the origins of the requests by my colleague Mr Theo Francken. We will evaluate the evolution of this provision on the basis of a series of parameters. This EUR 172.2 million also includes an amount intended to cover indirect costs of CPAS. I am looking at possible avenues to support CPAS, in particular as regards the efforts they must make in terms of personnel or indirect aid. I am fully aware of the expectations of the CPAS, which I met with the federations several times and again last week with Mr Theo Francken. In addition, we intend to have a consultation with the regional authorities in this respect, since, as is well known, several elements also concern the competences of the federated entities: the integration path, schools, the equivalence of diplomas, the accompaniment to work. I hope that we will have a wide-ranging consultation with the CPAS federations and with the regional authorities. In addition, I wanted to support my colleague Theo Francken, particularly in the context of the second call for municipalities and CPAS to provide additional ILA places in view of the exceptional circumstances that you have recalled. We are indeed talking about refugees who, for most of them, leave war zones and absolutely unspeakable situations or obvious dangers for them or their families. In this context, I would like to stress that CPAs and municipalities have in general shown themselves to be very cooperative, very positive in cooperation with the federal government, including with regard to pre-reception. In this regard, as you know, the first call had been made to mobilise 1,600 ILA places and 1,874 places were proposed by 247 municipalities. In order to cope with the ever-increasing flow of asylum seekers, this second appeal, which I have co-signed, concerns an additional 2,000 places in the ILA. At the same time, an appeal was also made with Theo Francken concerning the assistance of local authorities and governors for the opening of 40 emergency sites with a capacity of up to 100 people, in particular to meet the urgent needs of the winter, the sites to be closed, etc. These 40 additional sites are not ILAs. For example, sports halls, old schools, currently unused sites could be assigned to the pre-reception situation. As you see, whether it's pre-reception or reception, I really want to take on my share of responsibility. I am well aware that the CPAS are open and mobilised, for most of them, in relation to the management of an exceptional situation. In this context, it seems to me legitimate to do everything possible to support CPAS in meeting the additional costs that reception will entail. Depending on the situation, we could find ourselves, in six months' time, continuing to manage the pre-reception and the room perhaps even more important the reception, together, the two gradually increasing. I am well aware of the extreme complexity of the situation. It is commensurate with the extreme gravity of the international situation. In view of the above, I intend, at every moment, to roll up my sleeves alongside my colleague, alongside the government, the CPAS federations and the CPAS.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic271x.u27	Thank you, Minister, for your answer, which shows that you are not only concerned about this problem, which concerns us all, but also that you are convinced that you, like other ministers in this government, have a role to play, including with regard to the OMCWs. This refugee crisis must be managed and the OMCWs must be assisted in the pre-care and reception of asylum seekers. As you said, once they have been recognised, refugees must also be accompanied further. I am very pleased that the amount allocated for next year does not only take into account additional costs for living wages, which is evident in itself, because that is the current system, but that you are also currently examining how the OMCWs can be more supported in terms of staff for the supervision of recognised asylum seekers. You want to make the most of this and continue to look at the slopes. I would therefore ask you to join us next Wednesday at the Inter-Ministerial Conference on Asylum in looking for solutions to concreteise additional support for the OMCWs. After all, I assume that you are involved, as the Secretary of State has said that the problem of housing and housing guidance will also be discussed in consultation with the Communities and the Regions. I trust that the commitment you have now made will be translated effectively into concrete measures. Now 400 people are already knocking on the door of the OCMWs, who are already making a great deal of effort in the area of pre-care and care. I would like to respond very briefly to the debate on the distribution plan for asylum seekers. We all agree that we should do so. In another committee, however, we are also holding a debate on the distribution of recognised refugees. It was said that we would seek advice from the Council of State, because we believe that this is not legal and cannot be done. This goes against the Constitution, which states that people who are recognised have the right to choose their own place of residence.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic271x.u28	Madam Chair, Minister, first of all, I would like to thank you for your answers and for the work you have done. Indeed, an answer had to be given. Having said that, I hope that the means will be sufficient. In any case, I have taken note of the fact that they can be adjusted downwards, but also upwards. In any case, you should know that I will be very attentive to the question. On the other hand, I hear Mrs Lanjri's remarks as to where the allocation plan is being discussed. Beyond that, I would like to point out, Minister – you can relay my remarks to the government – that while it is important for the state to show its solidarity in the context of the asylum-seekers crisis, it is equally important for cities and municipalities to show solidarity. If they do not do so voluntarily, they must be forced to do so. This is what explains the distribution plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic271x.u29	Madam President, I would like to thank the Minister for his committed positive response. Minister, you have a lot of experience as mayor and local representative in politics and you understand very well that all problems end up at local level. That is a great concern for me. Many local authorities remain in the cold. They want to do something, but they do not always know clearly what is expected of them and what resources are available. I therefore formulate a very warm call. I have just heard from you, but Secretary of State Francken has not told us that an Inter-Ministerial Conference is being organised. (...): Yes, yesterday in answer to my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic271x.u30	(...) I regret that you cannot speak on questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic271x.u31	I would like to make a warm appeal, in particular that the Länder and the federal government, together with the local authorities, should draw up a concrete implementation plan, each with its own responsibility and powers, because I have no problem with that. My main concern is that people need to be integrated. If we want to create a positive atmosphere around migration, refugees and asylum, we must ensure that all the means are put together to achieve the goal of integration in the long term. I won't elaborate on the dispersal plan anymore. I'm just noticing that it's difficult. In the long term, we will see what the reality will be.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic271x.u32	Indeed, each committee has its own debates.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic271x.u33	We will deal with two more points, that of Mrs Hufkens on hygiene plans in horeca establishments, question No 6768, and then my inquiry. The remaining items will be deferred.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic271x.u34	Minister, as you are no doubt aware, restaurants and other restaurants must provide for different management plans. The provisions on these management plans can be found in the European Regulation No. 852/2014. For example, catering establishments with regard to the protection of hygiene should provide for a cleaning and disinfection plan, a pest control plan, etc. The design and adaptation of the plans often impose considerable administrative burdens and costs, and many entrepreneurs do not regard them as added value, as many of the smaller ones are aware of hygiene legislation. For example, a sectoral hygiene plan could provide relief for administrative burdens without affecting food safety. This could then be used as a guide for catering establishments. In the light of that, I have a few questions. Are you aware of the administrative burden involved in the various management plans? What's your vision on that? What are your views on a sectoral management plan for hygiene in catering?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic271x.u35	Madam President, Mrs Hufkens, the regulation on food hygiene to which you refer sets out the basic requirements for every operator in the food sector. This Regulation also imposes a number of obligations that are rather administrative in nature, but often necessary to achieve a certain result in the field of food hygiene, such as the requirement to have procedures to which you refer. I am aware of these requirements and the work that this entails for the restaurant operators, and I am in favour of a result-oriented approach that allows the food business operator himself to properly fill in the European requirements. For example, it is sufficient for a restaurant operator who has no pest problems to have the contact details of a specialised pest control company. As my predecessor in recent years with targeted campaigns for administrative simplification and reduction of burdens, has achieved a lot of concrete and tangible achievements with the BFSA, I wish to further support this policy myself. The initiative for a sectoral management plan has already been taken. The guide to the introduction of an auto-control system in the hospitality sector developed in the past by the Catering Federations and approved by the BFSA contains a clear and practical description of the possibilities of complying with the legal requirements for pest control and cleaning and/or disinfection. This guide also contains a detailed example of a cleaning and disinfection plan which can be further adapted to the specific situation of each individual catering establishment.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic271x.u36	Minister, it is a very good thing that you are moving along the path of greater administrative simplification in the catering industry. This sector is not so easy at the moment, so anything that can be improved is certainly good. I remember that you want to place more responsibility on the catering business itself and that you are in favour of a more sectoral solution so that the sector can fill in this matter itself.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic271x.u37	Minister, the scientific community, beekeepers and environmental associations have mobilized to permanently ban pesticides called neonicotinoids, which are lethal to bees. Despite this – or perhaps because of this commitment – the agrochemical industry wants to market a new substance called Sulfoxaflor. In this regard, rules must be observed. For example, industry must provide all scientific evidence of the safety of this substance. However, the company that produces Sulfoxaflor, Dow AgroSciences, was unable to deliver this evidence. It is normally planned to take into account the opinion of the European Food Safety Authority (EFSA), whose independence and scientific dimension you have recalled. The Commission has indicated in its report that allowing this product in Europe poses a high risk to bees. Despite this opinion, on 27 July the European Commission authorised the placing on the market of this new pesticide. It has therefore failed to comply with European regulations on the protection of pollinators and the requirements of the European directives on plant protection products, as well as to ensure the safety of Sulfoxaflor on the health of bees through testing. In addition, it did not take into account the reservations made by EFSA. It is therefore difficult to consider this authorisation by omitting the intervention of certain lobbies and/or possible caulking by the European Commission. It gives the company two years to deliver data on the effect of the pesticide on bees. In other words, it will be two years during which the firm will be able to earn profits by killing these insects and polluting soil and groundwater. The scenario was identical in the United States. It took two years for all beekeepers' and environmental associations to mobilize and take legal action to cancel the authorisation for infringement of the rules and procedures. As these associations were successful, this authorization was withdrawn. However, the damage is done and it has cost beekeepers a lot of money and energy, who do not have a lot of resources. Moreover, it is a matter of intervention after damage has been caused when there are procedures to prevent it. I come to my questions. The decision was made during the holidays. The European Parliament did not perceive what was happening and therefore did not use the procedures it had the opportunity to highlight within the six weeks at its disposal. Member States have the opportunity to go to the European Court of Justice to have this authorisation granted by the European Commission for non-compliance with the procedures revoked. I explained it in the body of my question. I'm not going to repeat myself. Minister, do you intend to go to the European Court of Justice? Have you taken any steps or are you going to take to ensure that the matter is addressed in the Council of Ministers on these matters? Will you take steps to ensure that the sale of this pesticide cannot take place on the Belgian market?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic271x.u38	Mrs Gerkens, I am not going back to the fact that I am really paying very specific attention to the risks that all products of any kind may pose to us. Protecting the health of bees is also one of my priorities. As you raise it, Sulfoxaflor was approved at European level as an active substance on 27 July 2015 in accordance with the European Regulation. However, such approval shall not constitute a marketing authorisation. Approval of an active substance is the first condition. A marketing authorisation for a plant protection product containing the substance in question must then be granted by the national authorities of the Member States. The approval of Sulfoxaflor at European level lays down several conditions, in particular that Member States should pay particular attention to the risks to bees and bumblebees when assessing any application for authorisation at national level. Another condition is that confirmatory information on risks to bees and other pollinators should be provided by the applicant within two years. You are asking the question of the legality of this approval. My administration confirms – and this is also my analysis – that this approval is in line with the provisions of the European Regulation, because the required data have been provided and the procedures seem to have been followed. A rapporteur Member State first assessed the case positively in this case. EFSA then assessed the substance and concluded that, for certain representative uses of the substance, including greenhouse uses, plant protection products containing Sulfoxaflor can be used without unacceptable effects. However, since that same conclusion could not be drawn for uses in the field, in particular as regards effects on bees, confirmatory data for these uses are requested and the Commission requires the Member States to pay particular attention to the effects on bees in the context of applications for national authorisation of plant protection products for that product. For any application for authorisation in Belgium of a product containing Sulfoxaflor, the possible effects on bees and other pollinators will therefore be assessed with particular attention, as is already being done and as specifically required by the European Commission in the authorisation of this substance. I can really assure you that if unacceptable risks to bees or other pollinators cannot be excluded, Belgian authorisation will not be granted on the basis of the precautionary principle, which we have mentioned on several occasions. To date, I insist, no plant protection product containing Sulfoxaflor is allowed in our country and its use is therefore prohibited.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic271x.u39	Minister, thank you for your answer. I cannot join you when you say that the procedures have been followed, from the moment they say that we are two years old to prove that the product is not harmful to bees. This means that, for two years, bees are harmed before reacting. The European Commission, on the other hand, has authorised it. We cannot allow the latter to choose this mode. Today it is this product. Tomorrow, it'll be for someone else. The industry provides the required evidence of safety and then the European Commission decides. You replied that you would not give any permission, if it appeared that there were risks to bees. It's not clear. Does that mean that until you have the answer, i.e. not for two years, there will be no marketing authorisation even for use in greenhouses?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic271x.u40	Mrs Gerkens, you will have noticed that my approach is very restrictive. A series of consultations are under way. This is a specific case in which I will exercise the utmost caution before giving or accepting an authorisation, even temporary. I want to be absolutely rigorous in all the decision-making processes concerning this type of situation and this type of product. It is therefore necessary to wait for all the consultations and analyses before taking a final decision at Belgian level. I think you've seen my tone in this case.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic271x.u41	Minister, thank you. However, I will table my motion for a recommendation in support of your position on the measures to be taken to avoid the sale of this pesticide in the Belgian market. I think it is important, at the level of the Council of Ministers, to remember that the rules of the Commission must be followed. In my recommendation, co-signed by my colleague Mrs Anne Dedry, I also ask you – and I think we still need to examine this possibility – to go to the European Court of Justice in order to prevent beekeepers from having to mobilise, and to remind you that there are rules to follow and that safety results must be waited for before allowing, even for two years. It's a long enough time to do damage.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic271x.u42	In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. A motion for recommendation was tabled by Ms Muriel Gerkens and Ms Anne Dedry and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Mrs Muriel Gerkens and the response of the Minister for Middle Classes, Self-Employed, SMEs, Agriculture and Social Integration, asks the government - to refer the case of Sulfoxaflor to the European Court of Justice for failure by the European Commission to: a. Article 9 of the Treaty stipulating the integration of the criteria for sustainable development and environmental protection when the EU implements its policies, b. Regulation 1107/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council concerning the placing of plant protection products on the market and amending the Annex to Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011, c. the precautionary principle enshrined in the European Treaty; - take the necessary measures to prohibit the sale of this pesticide on the Belgian market on the basis of Regulation 1107/2009 on pesticides. This Regulation provides that "environmental or agricultural circumstances specific to the territory of one or more Member States may require that, upon request, States amend an authorisation or refuse to authorise the plant protection product on their territory, if particular agricultural or environmental circumstances so warrant or if the high level of protection of human, animal and environmental health provided for in this Regulation cannot be ensured."; - to denounce the failure of the European Commission to comply with European obligations within the Councils of the European Ministers concerned." A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Muriel Gerkens and Mrs Anne Dedry and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mrs Muriel Gerkens and the reply of the Minister for Small and Medium-sized Enterprises, Self-employed, SMEs, Agriculture and Social Integration, asks the government - refer the sulfoxaflor file to the Court of Justice of the European Union for failure by the European Commission to respect: a. Article 9 of the Treaty, which states that the EU takes into account criteria relating to sustainable development and environmental protection in the implementation of its policies, b. Regulation 1107/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council concerning the placing of plant protection products on the market, having regard to the amendment of the Annex to Implementing Regulation (EU) No Commission 540/2011, c. the precautionary principle enshrined in the EU Treaty; - take the necessary measures to prohibit the sale on the Belgian market of this pesticide pursuant to that same Regulation 1107/2009 concerning plant protection products, which provides that "environmental or agricultural conditions specific to the territory of one or more Member States may require Member States, upon request, to recognise or modify an authorisation issued by another Member State or to refrain from authorising the plant protection product on their territory, where such a requirement is justified by specific environmental or agricultural circumstances or where the high level of protection of human and animal health and the environment provided for in this Regulation cannot be achieved.'; - condemn the European Commission's failure to respect European obligations at the meetings of the relevant European ministers." A simple motion was tabled by Ms. Renate Hufkens and Mr. Luc Gustin. A simple motion was tabled by Mrs Renate Hufkens and Mr Luc Gustin. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over. Colleagues who wish to turn their questions into written questions and already receive the Minister's written response are invited to do so. The outstanding issues will come to the agenda as part of the budget discussions and policy notes. If you do not get an answer at that time, questions will be deferred to a subsequent meeting.
