ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip068x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip068x.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, I apologize for my delay, but the Conference of Presidents has taken some time. We've got the next one over there. decisions taken. We shall now proceed with the pension debate. Around 15.30 p.m. we are holding a debate on the budget and tax-shift agreement concluded this morning. In that debate, all the groups represented in the Conference of Presidents are given six minutes' speaking time and the groups not represented in the Conference of Presidents are given three minutes' speaking time. Then the government will respond and then there will be the replies; groups represented in the Conference of Presidents will have two minutes to do so and the groups not represented in the Conference of Presidents will have one minute. We have also been asked to keep to the timing. Then we will proceed with the Pension Act and with the votes, after the debate on the Pension Act has been completed. That is what we agreed at the Conference of Presidents.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip068x.u3	The general discussion has resumed. The general discussion was resumed. I call Mr De Roover for the continuation of his speech.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip068x.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, welcome to the second half of this exciting competition, which some believe is right and which others believe is not. This morning the question was asked whether people who are supposed to be working longer should be able to do so. That's a fair point. I have replicated that it is a responsibility of everyone, including employers. We must also bear in mind that having a job, being able to contribute to society, helping people in their self-image, in their self-realization, and that we should not necessarily have a negative opinion on this. The recent study by the SERV, the Economic and Social Council of Flanders, has shown that 5% of workers consider it absolutely impossible to remain active at their expected age. We need to keep an eye on these people. However, 5 % means that the vast majority, with or without some adjustments, is absolutely capable of working longer. As important as this phenomenon of workable work may be, I would warn against falling into miserabilism. We don't live in a slave age anymore. Technological developments and developments in the organization of work do not stand still. This means that occupations that once physically required a lot of people can be filled in in a different way by an automatic and technological process of workable work. A mentality change is necessary. Today, we still assume too much that young people who start out in a demanding profession will also retire in the same profession.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip068x.u5	Mr De Roover, you regularly intervene in committee with such a linear vision. You know that the health factor is an important factor in keeping working. The difference in length of life in good health between someone with a higher and a lower degree varies in Belgium between 18 and 25 years. In other words, in our country there is a real class difference between those who have higher diplomas and those who have lower diplomas. You always talk about linear measures and you always talk about them in general. I don't know where the figure of 5 % comes from. However, there is no doubt that life expectancy in good health is very different. That's the point. Before death, we are not all alike, as you would suggest today. There's a big difference between workers and executives. A right-wing government should take more account of this when taking such linear measures against the pensions of the workers and servants in this country.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip068x.u6	Mr Hedebouw, life expectancy is increasing, as is the number of years expected in good health. I would also like to point out that "good health' is a relative concept. It is not at all the case that a person who has a certain defect would be immediately and by definition unable to carry on any professional activity. In fact, our labour legislation is far too strict in this respect today, and even makes it impossible for people who are able to carry out a number of activities in order to do so effectively. After all, we think we're far too binary. One can work or one cannot work. Whoever is in that grey zone is hardly or is not recognised in our legislation. I should also like to point out that the principle of forty-five years of career automatically means that those who study for a number of years will also have to work longer. You mention that the statistics indicate that there is a link between healthy life expectancy and the number of years someone has studied. Well, if we take the forty-five-year career as a starting point, it is largely taken into account. For example, a person who goes to university for four or five years will also be able to retire four or five years later. In fact, that element is embedded in sticking to the forty-five-year professional career.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip068x.u7	It is a pity that the government has been quite conservative in this. It continues to hold on to retirement ages and no longer wants to reason in terms of career duration. If we look at the table of the early retirement age, you are still making the link between the retirement age and the length of the career. In our proposal we assume 42 career years, with a kind of safety valve, in which everyone can retire at the age of sixty-five. We do that because there are also people with very short careers. If we were only to reason in career life, this means that those people can never retire. That can't be the intention. To a far greater extent than the government, we are on a reformist and intelligent path. I would also like to refer to your quote on the survey on the 5% of people who say they can't stay on until retirement age. I would indeed recommend that you, like my colleague, base more on figures rather than on surveys. The figures come from the RIZIV. The government has implemented a number of reforms in the areas of early retirement and unemployment. The RIZIV states that these reforms, according to their text I have here, will increase the cost of health insurance by 30% by the end of this legislature, or about 2 billion. Are those two billion extra costs in your tax shift? Perhaps not, because you are taking out a number of posts very isolated. The same applies to pension reform. The Planning Bureau has calculated that this is a saving on the ageing bill of 1.7 % of GDP. The Minister also mentioned this for the period 2014-2060. However, the Planning Bureau and the Government have not yet calculated which shifts would result in an increase in retirement age for other social security posts, such as sickness and invalidity. We now have for the first time a calculation of the RIZIV which states that the government's measures cost 2 billion extra, but that is nowhere in your forecasts. For us, that is an additional argument for saying that this pension reform should have been postponed for a short time, until a scheme has been drawn up for the heavy-duty professions, for workable work, for construction workers, for people in the care sector. Unfortunately, you have chosen another option.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip068x.u8	My Chinese is not very strong, but it seems that there is a proverb in that language that says that predicting is difficult, especially when it comes to the future. This is, of course, particularly true of such forecasts. The rise in RIZIV's figures is taking place today, completely separate from the pension reform. If people are expected to work longer in the future, that element will indeed have to be kept in mind. There will then have to be two elements. Firstly, it will be necessary to ensure that people do not use RIZIV as a detour or technique to avoid solidarity. Let us be honest, for quite a few people this technique is also used to avoid a situation of longer working. Secondly, innovation in employment must, of course, ensure that people do not end up in the RIZIV. I would like to point out, however, that the picture presented here, if an average 62-, 63- or 64-year-old were an old wreck, is simply contradicted by the facts. These are very valid people who, rather than being old workers, are workers with very many talents that can be used professionally. Of course, one cannot expect a sports career from such a person and one cannot expect them to perform physically heavy occupations. That mental shift has to come from all sides. Once again, we are opposed to the idea that someone over 60 years of age, not by definition but even to a large extent, would no longer be useful in the labour market. I'm rounding up. No one has ever been able to tell me why this country is the only country where people could not work longer than 60 years. If today it turns out that people work four to five years longer in the Netherlands, are you going to claim that everyone there gets a Thai masseuse in the afternoon to make sure that one can spend the day in a more pleasant way? I am not familiar with that kind of Dutch legislation. In other countries, because there is a habit of having a normal retirement age, it appears possible to work four to five years longer within the same economic framework. Then why would that be impossible for us by definition?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip068x.u9	Mr President, I would like to join what Mr De Roover says when it comes to shifting costs to health insurance. As Mr De Vriendt has said, if we take a very statistical approach, we can say that unemployment benefits are getting stricter and more stringent with regard to early retirement, and that they are moving towards the budget of health insurance. That is a possibility that could exist, but it is very static and we must not look at things that way. Our system is absolutely wrong in that respect, and Mr De Roover has perfectly underlined this. After all, we deal very passively with these people. We put them in a system of inactivity, while those who receive a benefit from the RIZIV themselves are not happy with it. They can do something, but are completely prevented from developing any activity. If they do something, they will lose all their rights. I know enough people who want to work a few hours a week, who want to work part-time, but simply cannot do so within the current system. We therefore need to adapt this system, but that is also in the coalition agreement. The Minister for Social Affairs is working today on an integration project to allow people in health insurance to develop certain activities. In fact, those concerned will be happier than simply receiving their benefits, because in the end the latter has little social dimension. Mr De Vriendt, you also refer to the 42-year-old careers and suggest that we should rather aim for that limit. That is correct, but the philosophy of this pension reform is actually the same. She's also aiming at that 42-year-old limit. However, there is a need for a theoretical retirement age, on which that pension should be able to be included. That age is 65 years old today, but people do not retire at 65 years old. By 2030, this age limit will increase to 67 years. However, the 42-year career, on which we actually agree, remains the criterion for retirement age.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip068x.u10	Mr President, Mr Lachaert, for those Members who missed the debate this morning, I would like to point out the following. Don't worry, I won't repeat everything. Mr De Roover debated seven caricatures this morning and there was a general consensus on this at the meeting. Now we're at the eighth caricature. A caricature follows on average every 10 to 12 minutes. The eighth caricature is that someone over 60 years of age can no longer enter the labour market. Mr De Roover, which of the theoretically 150 Members of Parliament have made such a statement since you started the second part of what you call a competition?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip068x.u11	I suggest that you follow the report closely.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip068x.u12	I'll do that. However, I would suggest that you too should be the most realistic. After all, nobody here has said that someone over 60 years of age is no longer able to enter the labour market. Mr De Roover, with all sympathy, but if you think you should have the debate with such caricatures, we will of course not get any further.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip068x.u13	You're exhausting that way.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip068x.u14	We have started by establishing that there is a quasi-unanimity about the fact that longer working is part of the solution. Dear government parties, however, tackle also the subject of workable work and of the heavy professions. Please also acknowledge that not everyone over the age of 60 can continue to work in a heavy occupation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip068x.u15	You shouldn't.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip068x.u16	However, you do not give any answers. You'd rather debit caricatures. You refer to the Netherlands. Please do not let that country be an example. After all, the Netherlands used the same method, namely first raising the retirement age to 67 years and postponing the rest until later, with the social partners, which is called the National Pension Committee. However, the Netherlands has never come to a compromise or solution for the heavy-duty professions, which means that people with a heavy occupation suffer from this increased retirement age and are, moreover, subject to sickness and invalidity insurance to a high degree and above the average. Mr De Roover, is that your best practice? Is that the example you want to follow? I would still like to give you the benefit of the doubt, but where are your legislative proposals and passed laws on workable work and on the heavy professions? Were they lying down? We have seen it in one place: in the newspaper. That is where you have indeed expressed your ideas about what workable work should involve and what the legislator should do, but they have not yet been approved. In a number of hours the Chamber will approve the increase in retirement age to 67 years, but not the measures on workable work for people in care, for construction workers, for workers and for people with back problems. There are. You can't deny that. It bears witness to your worldly alienation. Those people in heavy jobs, they're there.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip068x.u17	So, ladies and gentlemen, let us note that Mr De Vriendt may be speaking for the opposition as a whole. I'd like to write that down. This means that I am now asking the opposition to stop saying that we allow people to work longer, because there seems to be a consensus on this. That means that the core of what we are doing here is obviously shared by you, which I very much appreciate. As far as workable work is concerned, it is certainly not excluded that we could be inspired by the models that Green puts forward, but we have looked at them and we have not found the golden solution. You can, of course, from the opposition's point of view, give the impression that you can suddenly, with a finger-cut, with some kind of bill, ensure that everyone will walk to work whistling, but then you will also be fooling around. As far as the Netherlands is concerned, today's work is four to five years longer. If you say that there are quite a few people in the Netherlands who come into health insurance, I do not disagree, but on average they work four to five years longer. This means that those who are not covered by health insurance are likely to work six to seven years longer. That's a basic element of arithmetic. In those five years more, the people in the health insurance are settled. So you cannot play out that argument at all. If you don't want to take the Netherlands as an example... Mr Vande Lanotte, do you wish to interrupt me?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip068x.u18	Mr De Roover, Mr Vande Lanotte wishes to interrupt you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip068x.u19	I'd like to formally contradict this. In the Netherlands, incapacity for work is almost twice as high as in Belgium. This is not included in the statistics from the average age up to when one works. They're kept separate. If all people with disability are kept out of the statistics, the average age up to when one is working is obviously longer. This is also basic statistics;
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip068x.u20	Mr Vande Lanotte, I will reassure you. If you like to move the Netherlands aside, there are 25 or 26 examples in the EU of other countries where people work longer. Perhaps a statistical trick will have been invented there as well. Even in France, which is perhaps very close to your heart, there is longer work than in our country. Our country is in those statistics at the bottom of the list. We wonder how, in the name of God, it is possible for us to think that we can maintain a pension system under these conditions, with that early retirement age. That is what this debate is about.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip068x.u21	Mr De Roover, I am listening to you with surprise. An increase in retirement age is, of course, a theoretical decision, top-down, easy to do, with a draw. You do not seem to mind that there is a serious breakdown in health insurance and disability in the Netherlands. You seem to think this is a price that we must and can pay. I remember that it is perfectly normal for the N-VA to have sickness insurance and invalidity as a safety net, a price that one is prepared to pay, following an extension of the retirement age, which is theoretical and does not meet people who are unable to keep up with their job at the end of their career and then fall into health insurance. I note that you don't think that's a problem. I think so. I think that is an improper use of disability and health insurance. Invalidity is not intended to cover people who cannot work for up to 67 years at the end of their career. Invalidity and sickness insurance do not serve that purpose. You have just asked about the Green proposals. To work on workable work, we can rely on a number of good practices that exist in the business world. There is also a need for legislative work. We have proposals on this matter. I invite you to read our election programme and look at our legislative proposals in this area. One of these proposals concerns, for example, the development of an instrument for measuring working capacity. Employers can see to what extent their employees are still able to carry out tasks. Sometimes it is hard work and workers who are approaching the end of their careers. None of that is obvious. You can deny that social reality, but it is not obvious. So get off your stand and look into reality, in practice, in the workplace. You will see that what we say is not so foolish.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip068x.u22	Mr De Vriendt, my sympathy for you is very great, but your accusation that I should be on the work floor is very strange. I have been in the workplace for a very long time, which you cannot say. So you should be more careful with your advice. What we mean by workable work is not what is in some of your proposals, namely: introducing new regulations by law, introducing new burdens by law for employers and employees to fill in statistics half the time. That is not how we approach it. We know the sense of Green to introduce new regulations, because they want to make people happy thanks to regulations. With regulations, regulations, new legislation, new obligations, we do not provide workable work. In doing so, we ensure that everyone begins to abhor the workable work. I know from education that is also a workplace to which these so-called regulations lead: to planning. Thanks to these measures, people would much rather retire than do what they want to do professionally.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip068x.u23	Mr De Roover, I speak from experience. We have negotiated with employers the obligation to provide training. You like to use numbers. Well, figures show that employers mainly provide education and training to highly skilled and managerial staff, not to the low-skilled and the people who need it most in order to remain active in the labour market. Those are the facts. That's the fix. I wonder why we cannot defend regulations that allow employers to think long-term and invest in the training and training of their employees so that they can use them longer. Very briefly, I could say that employers do invest in the maintenance of their machines, in software and ICT. Then why can't they invest in living forces? This is a good example that employers do not do it on their own and that they sometimes even have to be protected from their own short-term thinking.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip068x.u24	Mr De Roover, I notice that you have been traumatized by your past in education.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip068x.u25	That's not so bad.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip068x.u26	I can understand that a little bit, but I would ask you not to extrapolate that to what we are proposing. I hope you will be aware that what we are proposing, namely workable work, is in the interests of workers and employers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip068x.u27	We're not denying that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip068x.u28	Call me an employer who has an interest in an employee dropping out early and constantly sick because he can't handle his job. This must be a story of shared interests. So transcend that scheme, transcend that so-called gap, pension reform must be a story of shared interests, of a common solution to keep people effectively at work a lot longer, but in a workable way. This is in the interests of workers and employers. If the government realizes this a little more, we could look here today at a better draft law, at a better pension reform.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip068x.u29	Mr De Coninck, Mr De Vriendt, said that companies had an interest in training and training. Mrs De Coninck, if you say that there are useful regulations, I do not disagree; that would be rather strong, I am not an anarchist. All I'm saying is that politicians who think they can be smarter than the citizen through regulations and laws can be smarter than the employer and can be smarter than the employee. Mr De Vriendt has made a very good addition to this, namely that it is in the interests of employers. If it is really in the interests of employers to ensure good education and training, you should explain to me why he would not do so. Why would that employer go against his own interests? Mrs De Coninck, I will give you part of the answer. In the past, arrangements were made to allow and allow employers to eject older workers from the labour market and to see them treated by society. Of course, employers are not motivated, but systems such as bridge pensions and so on will then ensure that people with experience are regarded as a kind of professional household waste that can be set aside at the expense of the community. If we can strengthen these mechanisms and ensure that the interests of the employer and the employee can be properly identified by mutual agreement, I am sure they are much greater. We are not the ones who think in some form of class struggle, where employees and employers are by definition opposed to each other, on the contrary. But give them the space to find each other in that quest as well and make sure that as a politician you don't think you're smarter than living society here outside this hemisphere.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip068x.u30	Mr De Roover, I am so pleased with your last statement!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip068x.u31	I'm here to satisfy you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip068x.u32	If you were to apply that to the proposals you are defending at the moment. You still assume that if we decide here that people can retire in 67 years, this will also become a reality. That's not true. It means that people, both employees and employers, will seek all kinds of ways out if they can't handle it anymore. So one has to think deeper and in the longer term, and consider what positive levers we can develop to make people work longer. You're arguing about the bridge pension. I've had experience with that. Both trade unions and employers thought that was a good system. Employers, too, just to be clear.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip068x.u33	Of course! The taxpayer will have to pay for it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip068x.u34	I'm glad you said that. I would like to tell you that the Ford workers who had agreed to a wage cut in order to stay at work were still fired. People over 40 years of seniority who are hard to claim to be fat profiteers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip068x.u35	Since it was difficult for me to say so, I did not say so. You cannot suspect me that I am on the side of the employers, just as I am not necessarily on the side of the workers, because I do not think in those qualities. I am on the side of those who, in close consultation, give each other room. I said earlier in the first half of this fascinating competition that employers do have a responsibility here. You responded, so you heard me say it. As far as that is concerned, you won't find an opponent in me. Here again, however, we are making legislation that makes people work for up to 67 years, while everything shows that it will be a minority who will work for up to 67 years, which is very punishment! Why do we do that? Because, of course, we want to give people that opportunity. Many categories are never mentioned in your discourse. In your discourse only count those who apparently can no longer work. We are talking about the vast majority of the population, who can not only work more easily, but I will say something amazing to you once again. Through this pension reform we want to offer this possibility. There may be such a small group of people in your environment, but in my environment there are a lot of people who do like to work. You were talking about such a group that no longer wants to work. Well, then you're completely detached from reality. This pension reform offers the people who want it and who can have the chance to work longer. I'll come back to health insurance and disability, at the RIZIV. You say that RIZIV is no way out for people who cannot work for up to 67 years. The RIZIV offers an opportunity to all those who, for some reason, are unable to perform their activities during their professional careers. For those who are actually, controlled and in a correct way unable to reach that age, the RIZIV remains of course. That's just the point of the RIZIV. It was precisely invented to ensure that the residual category does not fall away, that we do take care of it and that we do have room for them. This is also the purpose of sickness and invalidity insurance, provided that it is not, of course, used as a technique to evade solidarity with other workers by working until a full pension can be obtained.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip068x.u36	Now it's getting really interesting, Mr De Roover. You confirm that for you sickness and disability insurance is a kind of safety net for people who can no longer handle their job at the end of their career. It will also be dangerous. It also means that you no longer think it is necessary to do something about the heavy professions and workable work, because there is still health insurance. Let me explain to you the difference between the two of us. We want to do everything in our power not to distract people who are heavily employed at the end of their careers from the disability and from pushing them into health insurance. On the other hand, we want to enable them to carry out workable work according to their capacity, at their rhythm, in the working conditions suitable for them at the end of their career, in other words, when they are approaching 60 years or when they are 62 or 63 years. We have been discussing with you for hours how we can make this possible. You are avoiding this by constantly talking about the social partners, but today you have given an important supplement, namely that there is also sickness and invalidity insurance. I insist that this is improper use. You are avoiding the debate on the heavy professions. I expect a government to tackle such a subject and effectively provide a solution for people who have a heavy occupation at the end of their careers. So you're obviously not doing that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip068x.u37	Mr De Vriendt, the RIZIV does not serve as a safety net for those who are tired of working, for those who no longer want to drag themselves to the workplace or for those who want to sleep longer in the morning. Those who abuse the RIZIV for these reasons should also be addressed at the RIZIV. What is the RIZIV for? You can find that on Wikipedia. You don't need a gallery for that. The RIZIV is there for those who are temporarily unable to work for health reasons. He's right about me, so I'm right about him. So I would like to confirm that in the future it may be somewhat less binary, that it may also be the case that people in their current profession, that they have exercised for years, probably no longer have the rhythm or physical strength to continue exercising it or that they have health problems. This does not mean that we must, by definition, push them out of the labour market. Here too, flexibility will once again be an element of the solution.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip068x.u38	Mr De Roover, I would like to hear you say that. It's the second or third time.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip068x.u39	Again? It's gonna be embarrassing.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip068x.u40	I have tabled a bill that allows employers to be supported to keep people in employment who, for example, have cancer and have to undergo severe treatment. Why? Because cancer treatments are becoming increasingly successful and because cancer becomes a chronic disease. These people are often very highly educated. We do not have to choose to leave the labour market. If I have understood you correctly, the N-VA will therefore support this proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip068x.u41	I'll tell you more, Mrs. De Coninck. Perhaps the N-VA made that proposal when you were in the majority and you did not support it. In the past, in eliminating the rigidity of the labour market, it has not been very well scored. I am not talking about your legislative proposal as such, which you are putting forward, is, in any case, a concern which we very much share. Effective solutions should have been found in the past. Perhaps this government will score better in that respect too than the government in which you were responsible.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip068x.u42	Mr. De Roover, your song is getting boring.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip068x.u43	Yours, too, because you always answer the same thing.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip068x.u44	May I finish? For the record, I have already done so as a minister, but the National Labour Council has given its opinion too late. That is why I tabled it back as a Member of Parliament. So stop telling the classic story that we haven't tried anything.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip068x.u45	I'm not saying you didn't try anything. In fact, I do not think that you have scored the worst in the list of socialist excellence. That would be punishment, too, but okay. In that respect, you were sometimes a refreshing exception to the rule, I admit it. On Article 23 of the Constitution, the Council of State, which was also mentioned here, said that it was not for the legislator to organise a significant social decline. I shall go into that very briefly. Determining what is a significant social decline seems to me to be a difficult exercise. In any case, it is important that we give a political assessment of this. We are not just saying that this is not a significant social decline; we are even saying that this is not a social decline because, as far as pensions are concerned, we simply want to join the European platoon. I come to one final point of criticism of our proposal. Other sources of funding should also be found. That was said earlier. The financing of pensions comes from the total pot of social security. That is true, of course, but the money has to be there, whether they are scratched out of one pot or out of the other. I just want to make this one comment. To give the impression that there is no great amount of social security from the general funds today is, of course, far from the truth. Even today, pensions and other social benefits are already largely financed by sources other than the contributions of employees and employers. I'm rounding up. This reform offers the opportunity for a win-win operation. In the press, some thought they were paradoxical. It's true, it's a paradox, because a paradox is an apparent contradiction. The paradox is that there could be a budgetary advantage in this measure, while people would still get a better pension. Somehow that seemed impossible. Well, it is quite obvious that those who work two years longer not only have a better income during those two years than if they were retired, but also receive a better pension in their retired years, while the budgetary situation also improves because they are more responsible for their own income. This means that he or she also leaves more room for those who come after him or her in terms of pensions. In our view, it is not uninteresting to point out a reduction in the risk of poverty because people are going to work longer and therefore have a higher pension. For the N-VA as a social party, this is a very important element, as is the fact that there will be a reduction in inequality.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip068x.u46	Your last point is interesting. You've made two statements. Firstly, this reform leads to higher pensions. Secondly, this reform will save public finances. At first sight, that is indeed contradictory. That doesn't necessarily have to be the case. However, you can never say this with certainty until you can tell Parliament how many more people will have to work through this pension reform. You can't. The social partners also confirmed this during the hearings in Parliament. Your Minister, Mr Bacquelaine, also admitted that. Those calculations are not available. That's a flaw in the pension reform. You cannot tell Parliament how many more people will have to work because of the new rules you introduce on early retirement and the fixed retirement age. You say that the two-year reform also leads to higher pensions. Then you assume that everyone will work longer. You still have the idea-fix that it is enough to lay down by law that the retirement age should be raised and that people can follow all this very nicely, very willingly, very competently and competently. Quod nun. We've already had that debate. I'm not getting back to you. Because of illness or disability people cannot handle it, especially as long as you do nothing about workable work. Another element comes from the Pension Commission itself. She says that the government agreement contains another element, namely that you want to apply actuarial correction to pensions. We're not there yet. The pension reform we are now voting on is up to and including fragmentary. This government wants to make an actuarial correction by taking more account of reference careers, life expectancy and by taking averages of periods when people can still benefit from their pension. If people want to quit early, you want to apply some sort of pension malus. If the government carries out its plans, I have no doubt of that. Unfortunately, according to the National Pensions Commission, people will come to an average pension reduction of 2.5%. So stop saying that this leads to a higher pension amount, because that is clearly incorrect. Secondly, you say that this reform will bring money to the government. That too is flawed to say this. There has been a debate in committee. At the beginning of your speech, you said that this debate was over. That is not the case at all, because we have learned a lot in committee. We have learned, among other things, that the government's ageing bill will decrease by 1.7 % of GDP between 2014 and 2060, if we look at this pension reform in isolation and if we do not take into account the possibility of illness and disability. However, the official figures of the RIZIV give reason to assume or fear such a thing. The government has not yet given the Federal Planning Office the mandate to make the overall budgetary calculation. So what you are saying is clearly wrong, according to the RIZIV, according to the National Pensions Commission and according to a logical reasoning. You cannot say that this reform will lead to higher pensions. Nor can you say that this reform will generate additional money for the government, because you have not yet made the overall calculation. Much has to do with the fact that you simply cannot answer that one basic question that various groups have put to you in committee: how many people will have to work for how much longer as a result of this pension reform?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip068x.u47	Mr De Vriendt, you still believe in five-year plans. So you expect us to say what people will do on the basis of a mathematical exercise. I can tell you this is very difficult. Tomorrow's tomorrow. That not everyone will work for two more years, that is obvious. But if you take the principle of 'everyone' or 'no one', then we have an immense gap. Of course, it is absolutely impossible to add up. One can indeed ask a team of scientists to investigate everything. They will then come up with figures, and two years later it will be found that they are wrong. Here too, you want to give the people a security that does not exist. So don't give the impression that she would exist. It is quite clear that we will have to work longer on average in the future; who and how much will have to prove that. It is quite clear that many people will work longer, even up to 67 years; who and how many they are will have to prove that. It is absolutely impossible to put right numbers on that today. In addition, the accompanying measures will certainly still play a role in this context. There is also no one who has said that the overall pension reform would have been completed with this legislation. For us this is therefore an important, new stage of that large yard. The main reason why our people have lower pensions today is because they have been working less long. That is also why our system is becoming poor. Working longer effectively means more income, it means solidarity with future generations and with people who do want and can work longer. According to some, that group doesn't exist. It's a sustainable system, prayer in a long-term vision. It is also a transparent system. The pension monitor, which is also included in the plans, will give a huge advantage to each of us in looking at his or her personal situation. As far as the democratic support for this reform is concerned, that will have to be demonstrated in the vote. I believe that the democratic support for reform is demonstrated, first and last, by the support that a certain proposal has in the temple of democracy, composed by all citizens after elections, namely this Parliament. Only in this Parliament can the democratic support for such a reform be shown. I can also tell you, on behalf of my group, that after this reform, we will be able to look at the future of the next generations in the eye and give a little more perspective on a future with a pension. Some use the symbol of the lemon, while we use the symbol of the apple for the thirst, for the benefit of the next generations.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip068x.u48	In conclusion, Mr De Roover, I have just one question for you. If you are so convinced of your pension reform and of the need to work longer, up to 67 years, then I wonder why the N-VA did not dare to propose it to the people before the elections.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip068x.u49	Ladies and gentlemen, as agreed, we are now going to deal with the question of the budgetary and tax-shift agreement. The Prime Minister himself was present when we decided to do so in the Conference of Presidents. I'll wait until the Prime Minister arrives. In the meantime, I would remind you of the agreement on speaking time, namely six minutes per group and three minutes for the small groups. We can start now.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip068x.u50	Colleagues, beste collega's, I have three minutes to talk about this tax shift, only three minutes to discuss how much what we had been promised as the great tax reform that was going to benefit the workers has simply, once again, turned out to be a significant transfer of money from the workers, van dewerknemers, to the entire employers in Belgium, naar alle werkgevers. The first thing I heard the Prime Minister say today is, "What I want is to create jobs, jobs and jobs." "Jobs, jobs, jobs." Well, it will be necessary to explain how it is possible, by increasing consumption taxes, by increasing VAT from 6 to 21 % on a product as basic as electricity, to revive employment. With many economists in Europe, I say that by taxing consumption, we are going to completely stifle our economy. Not only will we not create jobs, but we will also make the workers pay for this crisis, and that is not fair! So they're gonna tell me, "Oh, but no, we made capital contribute." That was the promise the CD&V had given us: "We're going to charge the capital." I don't know if it was to please the PTB, but in any case, we were told. Make the capital pay? How can we talk here about making the capital pay? The tax you propose on speculation will yield around 20 million euros. Is that, to charge the capital? When you propose today to increase taxation on furniture from 25 to 27%, who are you going to touch? The little savers, of course! Great fortunes like Albert Brother, who place everything in their society, will not be affected by all your measures. So, yes, the PTB is disappointed. But I feel like you don't mind too much. I can see it. I see you don't mind. But we're not alone... We're a lot. Already two here. But above all, we were 120,000 last year in the streets to clearly denounce that your anti-social measures, in addition to touching the workers, were going to plunge us even deeper into the economic crisis. Today, once again, you wanted to short-circuit parliament and all the workers by imposing antisocial measures during the holidays. I heard you weren't going to dare.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip068x.u51	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip068x.u52	Did I ever get here three minutes ago? It is even austerity for the minutes of the opposition! I conclude by saying clearly that social resistance will still be present on the street on 7 October. You hope here today to short-circuit the democratic debate by imposing your tax shift on the Hussarde. Moreover, this is not a tax shift, it is to make workers pay. On 7 October, I set you up to fight against the anti-social measures of this government.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip068x.u53	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the government, ladies and gentlemen, we have finally obtained the well-known paintings requested. I understand that you took time to give them to us because there were differences between the slides and the figures to table to parliamentarians. I have rarely seen such an imprecise budget table in which decisions already taken are mixed with new measures taken, where hypothetical measures appear and an expectation of income and revenue becomes a structural measure. In short, we did not leave this impression of fog and nebula. Sort of, I'd say you're hiding something from us. In recent weeks, we have seen your improvisation on the figures, such as the error on the 750 million for the Regions or on the SNCB. In this case, this goes a little further. It's no longer improvisation, it's a real colin-maillard game. This game consists of blindfolding and the person must touch a victim. We're in improvisation. And all we know is that there are victims. Let's talk about it! "We were told," said the Prime Minister, "it was impossible, so we decided to do it." Yes, you dared! You dared to feather the families, to feather the workers, the middle classes, the pensioners, the unemployed, the public services. [[Brouhahaha]] It's not all bad. For example, you increase the discount for furniture. He had been raised from 15% to 25% under N-VA's cries. You're pushing 27%. I'm not gonna say it's bad. You're taking steps on speculation. Having said that, do you know that in the tables, the contribution on speculation represents, in structural terms, EUR 28 million, ten times less – remember that figure – than the savings imposed in health care? But I come to other examples. Let's take VAT on electricity. As a reminder, the Di Rupo government decided in 2013 to reduce the VAT on electricity to support the purchasing power of families and employment. Prime Minister, you were president of the MR at that time. When we took this step, you said, "Oh, great! This is a good measure for purchasing power and employment." Today you tell us once again: "I was wrong. This reduction in VAT is no longer a good measure." I'd say who wants to drown his dog, accuses him of rage. An increase of at least 100 euros in the electricity bill, of course, will not be marginal for the household budget. Speaking of VAT, have I understood correctly? I'm not sure, you'll tell me. Do you remove a reduced rate for VAT on social housing and schools? You have a contribution in the table, some 20 million euros, I think. You'll explain it to us. In any case, I hope that you do not touch on this reduced rate which is essential for the construction sector but also to help the Communities and Regions to support the construction of social housing and schools. You're raising health taxes. At the level of the World Health Organization, all specialists have always said: "Yes, to support a healthy diet, we can increase the tax on products too fat, too salty, etc." But it is only effective if you reduce taxation on healthy products at the same time. Here, none of this! It's purely budgetary. You draw from the family portfolio to reduce business costs and it's outrageous! In an absolute fog, you say that this will create employment and that it will therefore automatically preserve social security. Not only is that not true, but you omit to say that by 2018, you make 1.7 billion savings in social security with measures that are not known. They don't explain them to us. We'll see about 700 million. On the other hand, it is already known that there will be 155 million disabled people, 280 million in health care. It is an effort in social security, on the backs of people and families, which is exceptional. You are talking about job creation and you are saying that, in particular, lowering the rate from 33 to 25 % will really boost employment. It is well known that in most firms, 25% is already available except for firms with very high qualifications. Banks, for example. Is this really a policy of support for employment? Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will not speak, because we will come back to it, about savings in public services that will be unheard of and which are hidden under snoring terms such as redesigning, etc. In fact, we are going to "saquer" in employment and in the means for services to the public. After what you've already undertaken against the workers with the jump of index, what you've already done in the public services, your support to the diamond dealers, by typing the social beneficiaries, it's again the population that is in your collimator! Just now, you started your press conference by adapting a sentence from Marc Twain, "it was impossible!" So you will allow me to finish with the title of a film because with what we are going to vote today and tomorrow for families, for workers, for those who benefit from a replacement income, it will really be "The Murdering Summer"!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip068x.u54	My group is satisfied. We're not talking about the tax shift anymore, we're talking about the tax cut. Everyone who works makes effective progress with 100 euros net per month. That is what we have always stood for. Work is rewarded, that was one of our programme points. That's change. That's what's being realized. That's historic. In addition to the tax cut, a second principle is particularly close to our hearts: the budget is in order by 2018. That too is change at the federal level. We want the accounts to be in order. Thirdly, the job creation and, above all, the cessation of the job destruction. An effective reduction in employers' charges effectively reduces employers' contributions from 33% to 25%. Many have spoken a great deal about this. We do it, we realize it. That's changing again. Finally, we are very satisfied with a billion euros in structural interventions. New and historical is also that agreements have been made for 2017 and 2018. That is a sensible approach, an approach to common sense. She's making sure our accounts are actually gonna be okay. There is considerable investment in a more efficient government, Minister Vandeput is working on it. It is blasphemous that after so many years it is still possible to make 550 million euros of efficiency gains, just by building up a more efficient government. That too is the change that we are now making and which others have talked about a lot before. Another aspect of funding is non-work-related income. A great deal has been said about this too. Some of them were talking about the cayman tax. It's coming in now. It's coming in now. For some it will never be enough, the figures should grow to the sky and only then will it be enough, but the speculation tax will also come. We are taking a step in the direction of the principle which is certainly important to my group, namely the principle of more fair taxes in which everyone will contribute. The Cayman tax is a typical example of this; capabilities that hide behind structures abroad will now also contribute. The last non-work-related element is the review of the regime of real estate companies. That too is a very sensible measure. I come now to a point that has already been touched a few times, namely consumption. I'm sorry, but there's no VAT increase. The only thing that happens here with the reintroducing of the 21% on electricity is that we restore a stupidity from the past. This stupidity went against all the recommendations of the OECD and the IMF, and caused a budget gap. Moreover, its reintroduction is offset by measures that stimulate purchasing power. The eco-taxality, which we fully support, will also ensure a healthier society. [[So we can live more than with increases in excise duties on tobacco, alcohol and diesel.]] I will conclude by saying that it is an important day for my group. It's day one of the tax cut. It is an important day, also because the agreement has four principles that we fully support. These are four principles that we have always put forward in our electoral programme for decades. The first principle is that we go to an efficient government. Secondly, we provide oxygen for the companies. Thirdly, we are increasing the purchasing power of citizens. Fourthly, we provide a social security that is affordable and that is available to everyone.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip068x.u55	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, we have witnessed a mockery of debate for an illusion of tax reform! A sham of debate has led us here, in a matter of tens of minutes, to talk about what the government defines as the challenge of the impossible. Either the impossible has no consistency and the debate can be as brief, or if the government really wants to defend its point of view, it would have the courage to bring together, all ceasing cases, a Finance and Budget Committee and come to justify its budget estimates more seriously. As evidence, the Cayman tax, discussed in plenary today and already announced to us a reassessment that the Minister of Finance was not able to specify a few days ago in committee! Where is the seriousness of this government? Prime Minister, I remember the debates during the election campaign, particularly in RTL-TVI, where you announced a tax reform on labour income, without any budgetary compensation. No one believed you, but you announced, for income of the order of 45 to 50,000 euros, 300 euros net per month of additional income for a couple. These were just promises like so many others! I won't list them, but you said, "Don't go to the legal retirement age," "Don't go to VAT," as Mr Chastel said. How can you believe in your illusion of tax reform? To say today that you will guarantee 100 euros for all revenues assumes, for this only measure, a cost of just over seven billion euros according to the Supreme Council of Finance. That's what you announced and what the N-VA group leader just said! Maybe you don't agree with each other anymore? I have just heard the N-VA group leader talk about 100 euros for all revenues and this measure will cost seven billion according to the Higher Finance Council. Of course, you will adjust the amount according to the reality. You sell us illusions! You have not undertaken any real tax reform to preserve the labour incomes of the weakest and middle classes. You have not had the will to flatten the tax niches that are now counterproductive to finally review the reality of the progressive tax on labour income, by removing a number of tax brackets in a significant way. This was part of your program but you do not implement it in your majority agreement! No more than you are undertaking corporate tax reform for the benefit of SMEs that are the real job creators in this country! Similarly, you do not really think about VAT, which is well known to have no redistributive effect. It has become, in this country, a permanent yo-yo of budgetary adjustment. This is a bad choice, and it is not the way to carry out a real tax reform. In short, you were in a hurry to go on vacation and you're selling us the sand you're going to stir in a few days!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip068x.u56	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, we must say again, this government is hard on the families and very soft on the wealthy. I'm sorry, this will be dismissed as a platitude, but unfortunately the tables that we've finally received prove it even more. Ladies and gentlemen, this morning VAT was increased. It is not now called an increase. I do not know what you call it, Mr Vuye, but from 6% to 21% I think it is an increase. Tonight we will vote on the pension at 67 years. And tomorrow we're gonna give a gift to the diamonds. One of the election promises made by every party here has been kept. The reduction in VAT: there would be no increase, the president of the N-VA said last week that there would be no increase in VAT. A broken election promise. On pensions, too, we see a broken electoral promise. The wealthy, on the other hand, are not going to contribute much to anything; on the contrary, they are still being compensated for a bit. Let us look at the figures. The VAT increase will cost the families EUR 700 million, but this will be compensated by EUR 100 per month. If we look at the figures and listen to the press conference this morning, 1.7 billion will be provided for this. If you want to give EUR 100 to everyone who works, you need EUR 5 billion: there are 4.5 million workers, times 100, times 12, if you calculate a year. Prime Minister, how are you going to do this? It's already improved. This morning, one of your ministers said that the government does not yet know how it is going to do it, including with regard to personal taxation. After all, this is detrimental to the regions. You also excel in this, of course, gentlemen of the N-VA: the government places the burden on the Regions. We have to do it. [[.]] You may later explain how you are going to compensate the 100 euros per month for VAT revenue. There is more, ladies and gentlemen. We have also heard this morning that this is being removed from the index. So there is a second index jump, which we have to take again with this budget. This is happening again, ladies and gentlemen, to the detriment of families, especially to the detriment of low-income families, to the detriment of single-parent families and to the detriment of pensioners. Dear Government, you have already forgotten the pensioners at the first compensation of the index jump, they were not eligible for this. The second was the increase in holiday money, which caused them to fall into a higher disc. This would be compensated, but I can't find it in the tables. This is a second issue for pensions. Now the VAT on electricity is added to that. The compensation, the 100 euros a month, where will it come from? May I point out that more than 50% of pensioners do not currently pay taxes? The compensation cannot be there, but they will pay the VAT increase. A second point, ladies and gentlemen. The VAT increase will be introduced immediately, in September, but the compensation will follow at the end of the legislative period, in 2018. That's completely insecure. Then there are the capabilities, fellow Members. Whoever says nothing happens before that is wrong; I have to admit that. There will be a tax cut, because from now on we will be able to subtract the negative values from the sale of shares. Instead of a tax on capital gains, there is now a reduction in the negative values. Where's that tax shift, co-workers from CD&V? You who said after the big demonstration that there will have to be compensation, where is the VAT on rental income? There isn't one. Where is the increase in capital taxes or capital gains tax? There isn't, co-workers from CD&V. You have a lousy cayman tax and a lousy added value tax if you sell within six months. Ladies and gentlemen, you must see what happens in the other countries: there will be no profit, there will be loss. And the loss, ladies and gentlemen, you have now compensated. So there's not going to be any capital tax at all. I'll finish up. What does a year mean with this government? One year with this government means 679 euros for families and a charge of zero euros. I can only conclude that the horror scenario that Mr Leemans predicted a while ago, colleagues from CD&V, is now coming true.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip068x.u57	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ministers, ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister, you are in the process of entering into history as the politician who "twitte" faster than his shadow, since at the end of every night negotiation you are eager – finally, it is quite legitimate – to show satisfaction when considering the results of these negotiations. The problem is that we have learned to be wary of the outcome of your negotiations and that we are asking to see. We remember the previous budgetary conclave, when you came out happy to be able to call the Regions for more responsibility, by instigating them to assume a complementary burden in the framework of the regional PPI before, a few months later, making a pitiful reverse, recognizing that there were errors in calculation. At the end of the European negotiations, you were also the first to announce that there was an agreement, before seeing, a few hours or days later, that most economists questioned the benefits of this agreement: unrealistic forecasts of privatisation, recessive effects of austerity measures, no measures on debt. Again, expectations were not met. Today, with regard to this tax shift agreement, I fear that it is a bit the same and that at the start of an announcement which you are looking forward to, on the contrary, there is a need to worry about a number of perverse effects. First of all, I would like to be nuanced and to say that reducing the burden on work was a necessity and a good thing. So I'm not out of the way. I don't think it's a gift to companies. It's oxygen for companies and it's a good thing. However, I have a few questions. On the scale first, you are announcing 7.2 billion euros, an amount in which you recycle almost 1,895 million euros over the 2015 financial year and you carry over 2 billion euros from this budget to 2018. When we know that, already in 2015, you are navigating on budget, we have some concerns about the realism of the forecast for 2018. What will also be the impact on the financing of social security? You may consider that this reduction in workload may have an impact. I wanted to ask you the question, but in view of the tables you have given us, I fear that the question will no longer arise. Over the period, we now have more than €1.7 billion in savings on social expenditure. It is clear from the figures you provide us that this effort on the burden of work will necessarily result in additional cuts in the social budget, in the social security budget. How will the reduction of workloads be implemented? Is this a linear measure, at the risk of being exposed to a number of windfall effects, since not all sectors may need the same proportion of this reduction in labour costs. You say that you are looking for job creation, but a more focused approach to some large labour supply sectors, certain categories of employers or employees would probably have an additional effect on job creation. Finally, the device you are proposing to us leads me to believe that the truth is hard for consumers, households, families. You flatter yourself with creating 100 euros of additional purchasing power, but everyone knows that this creation of purchasing power is completely "managed" by the increase in VAT on electricity. The consumer protection organisation Test-Achats announces an additional cost of 110 euros per year. What you give with one hand, you take with the other. In addition, with your majority, it is better to hold diamonds than to have to buy extra electric heating. However, electricity is a basic necessity, and the increase in the VAT to which it is subject is in addition to the perverse effects of the measures you have already taken in the field of taxation, in particular the distribution of energy. On the other hand, you are once again attacking households, consumers, workers by increasing diesel excise duties. With your majority, it is better to benefit from a company car than to be a worker obliged to use his car, because it is not possible to use public transport to get to work. I am thinking here, in particular, of the inhabitants of rural areas. The time of truth is hard for consumers, households, families. It is also difficult for beneficiaries of public services. You are camouflaging the additional savings under the names that are somewhat overshadowing the situation. You are announcing a better functioning of state services with 550 million savings at the key. You have to be serious! If savings are to be made at the level of the state's life train, to use your formula, we must let us know in which departments you are going to be able to make the savings. Will you exempt the departments of the Interior, Justice, Finance, Defence, Mobility? If this is not the case, you will necessarily, through these economic measures, supposedly at the level of the state's life train, impact the population. Finally, Prime Minister, there are targets that are not being met. For example, with regard to the fight against tax fraud, one might have thought that, under the tax shift, there would be a mobilization of resources in this area. But it must be noted that at this level, you can be assigned a double zero. I refer here to the table you have given us. Thus, for 2015 and 2016, there are no expected returns from the fight against tax fraud. On the other hand, in 2017, there was a tax regularisation line with a return of 250 million euros. Is the message to the fraudsters: "Get a little hold of it! A tax regularisation operation is planned and a number of fraud incidents that have accumulated and against which no action is being taken can thus be laundered." As speculation was one of the reasons behind the CD&V, action was absolutely needed to combat it. On the basis of your table, Prime Minister, I note that the return over the entire period amounts to EUR 28 million. This is the return of the fight against speculation! It is derisory and even less than what you expect from a line called "VAT on social housing and schools", which I may find difficult to interpret. But we see a return of 30 million euros. I hope you will give us an explanation. But a priori, there is something to worry about, in any case, to consider that, in relation to the expectations of the world of Christian democracy, the matter is not there. Actually, this date is a missed date. I would not dare to say that this hour of truth is the time for lies, but in the fight against tax fraud, against speculation, it is the time for misconceptions: nothing about corporate tax! Nothing about notional interests! You were hoping to reform to restore confidence, but this reform is just a missed appointment that will heighten distrust!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip068x.u58	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it is of course a good thing that we finally have clarity. The fluttering at the press conference was a welcome change from the bickering and squabbling of recent times. Our group has supported a reduction in the burden on labour. That is a good thing. However, if we do the full exercise, then we can only see that the promised simplification, the promised greening, the promised operation of justice, Mr Peeters, is not going to happen. Whatever you take on one side, you give on the other. You'll even take it before you give it back. The savings are for this year. The reduction in charges will not take place until 2016. First of all, ambition. You'd be ambitious. Finally, a government without socialists! Ambition level: 3.7 billion euros. Mr Reynders spoke about 5 billion, others about 7 billion, some even about 10 billion. The second phase of the fiscal shift thus leads to EUR 3.7 billion. (Minister Reynders intervenes without a microphone) Mr Reynders, so your press conference a while ago was about the overall picture, about the second phase. There is a limited level of ambition. I understand it's annoying. Otherwise, you wouldn't respond. I'll take it as a compliment. Secondly, the tax koterij stands. There are still many exceptions and deductions. SMEs Janssens and Peeters will still pay the same amount of corporate taxes. We still need a battery of lawyers and accountants to pay taxes in this country. There are no steps forward in this respect. Thirdly, Antwerp's taboos remain. Rationally speaking, we know that something has to happen to the company cars. We're not gonna subsidise traffic jams and fine dust. We note that the EUR 4 billion in tax support for commercial vehicles is not affected. There's no greening. Fourthly, I have no choice but to look at you, Mr Beke. In the tables we asked today, I looked for the fair contribution of the greatest capabilities. You campaigned for that. I didn't find them. Mr Van Rompuy, I have found a speculative tax for EUR 28 million. Not right after the comma. Your CD&V kids are talking about a pubic patch today. Mr Van Rompuy, you have been President of the Youth Council. Then you had hair on your teeth. Do you also have the courage today to say that you do not accept the agreement and that EUR 28 million is insufficient? Mr Van Rompuy, do you have that courage today? I am addressing Mr Peeters. What we see is savings in social security amounting to EUR 1.7 billion. These savings are frighteningly concrete and cover an entire page. Disabled people, the unemployed and pensioners must save EUR 1.7 billion. That is what is in the table we have asked for and received. Ladies and gentlemen, there will be more savings in the departments of Mr Peeters than contributions from the assets will be required. That is Mr Peeters' big tax shift: more savings in his own departments, for those who are struggling, than contributions from the great abilities. I'm concluding. After all, I don't have much time. The story's not over. The CD&V colleagues will have another chance. There is a social majority and there is a political majority here in Parliament for a fair contribution of the greatest capabilities. Mr Peeters, if your party develops a backbone, that capital contribution will come. We will continue to fight and continue to work with proposals and alternatives until all taboos die. Our country deserves that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip068x.u59	Mr President, Prime Minister, I shall first address Mrs Onkelinx. You no longer surprise us with your game of colin-maillard, the theory of conspiracy and "the murdering summer". Are you done being so caricatural? A little nuance and objective criticism would enrich the debate rather than take each time the rostrum of assault to talk to us that often flirt with insult. You haven't made that tax turn you've called your vows before! We've made seven billion tax cuts. Of course, we did not expect a blissful approval from you, but we expect at least the shade in your criticisms. Today, this government team has demonstrated, by engaging in the framework of the government agreement, through this fiscal shift, that the work can be better rewarded. Prime Minister, you have communicated your willingness in terms of timing to present the fiscal turn before the summer truce. This allows us to hold a first exchange on measures on which I emphasize the transparency of this government. We were able to benefit from paintings. They were made available to all parliamentarians so that the debate could be based on these measures decided last night. These measures and the government's will are embarking on tax reform that will better support the work. We give back to those who work a little bit of the fruit of their action. That's what drives us in this majority. Indeed, by encouraging and rewarding work better, we will naturally guarantee, as we have said, the survival of our social security. The preservation of our existing jobs, the creation of new jobs also guarantee shared wealth, collective wealth. I hear a number of criticisms: in the morning, vitriol is thrown into the face of this majority. You spit in the soup before you even taste it. While you didn't even have the paintings yet, you sent your 'terminators' to throw vitriol at the head of this majority. You could have waited until you knew the numbers. I hope that this debate, which will have to continue in the Committee on Budgets and Finance, will take place in a peaceful manner, in substance and without exchange of insults! A number of points will have to be corrected. Let us avoid in this Parliament sinking into error. Mr Dispa, frankly, you saw the data at a press conference. You tell us that the increase in VAT would finally eat that one hundred euros commitment. One hundred euros more per month, Mr. Maingain, for low and medium wages! As regards the increase in VAT on electricity, it is EUR 100 per year. So there is a factor twelve that needs to be taken into account, which is an important difference. This has escaped you, as Mr. Maingain has escaped. This also contradicts another caricature, that of Mrs Temmerman, who said that this government defends the wealthy. No! It's a hundred euros more per month for low and middle income! That's our priority! This team, this majority, it's a team of general interest. It is a team that intends to meet the challenge for everyone in terms of better rewarded work. It is a team that also wants to help our companies catch up with this competitive handicap. We are only following a number of advice from the European Commission, the OECD and the IMF. Because, yes, it is by reducing the burden on work that we will be able to meet this goal of collective wealth. That's what drives us. I will end with another aspect of tonight's agreement. This team is committed to respecting the budgetary balance by 2018. Nor will we create collective wealth by continuing to live beyond our means. Again, the objective has been achieved. Again, the commitments of this team – because there is a sense of the team in this majority that disgusts you a little – of this government, both in terms of substance and timing, are met. Thank you to this team for continuing in this direction!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip068x.u60	Mr President, members of the government, ladies and gentlemen, CD&V has gone to the electorate with economic growth and social progress. The tax shift was part of that. That was our guiding principle in the government negotiations. That is why the tax shift is in the coalition agreement. Afterwards, we advocated an additional tax shift, not just like that, but to strengthen the competitiveness of our companies, to achieve more jobs in our country and to achieve more justice. I know, ladies and gentlemen, there was a lot of scepticism in the opposition: nothing will come of it. There was, I admit, even scepticism among the majority, up to the last few days. Prime Minister, you have made promises here in this House to the social partners. You kept your word. The tax shift is a fact. Colleagues, what should a tax shift be based on? Of course, on more jobs, by cutting labour costs. Yesterday I read in a Flemish newspaper that the number of people who lose their jobs is decreasing due to dismissal and that the number of vacancies is increasing. I can only make one observation, namely that the wage cuts of the previous government and the current government are beginning to have an effect. We continue on that road, including for social profit. Responsible international institutions require environmental measures in the framework of the tax shift. They're gonna be there. The tables show that there will be more than EUR 900 million in environmental measures. For some, this may not be ambitious enough, but this is also a green tax shift. Ladies and gentlemen, may I remind you of what happened in the previous legislature? We had doubts about the VAT reduction on electricity. At that time, we also debated this within the majority. We also accepted that compromise. But we had our doubts. Well, if we look at today's figures, it turns out that these doubts were justified. We compensate for those who are struggling and those who work, for the lowest incomes and for the middle incomes. What's antisocial about that? We asked for efforts for those who have great power. We asked for taxes on capital gains. We did get results there. For some, my fellow Members, it will never be enough. If we add up all the measures that actually tax wealthy people, I tell you that a majority has never imposed so many taxes on wealthy people and on capital gains. That is the reality. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a balanced tax shift that offers perspective. He offers perspective to the employees, to those who have a job to keep that job and to those who don't have one to get one. Those who make efforts will be rewarded with purchasing power. This is also a tax shift that offers a perspective to employers to increase their competitiveness in today's world. This tax shift combines economic growth with social progress. That was our starting point, it still is, and it will continue to be.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip068x.u61	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, when I look at the faces of some members of the opposition, I think the lemons taste acidic. You shouldn't bite that much, because you're not getting it right. It has become, as it were, the symbol of the opposition. I'd say pour a splash of vinegar on it when I listen to some of you. Prime Minister, I am addressing you today on behalf of my group. I would like to say very clearly that we think this is a very good and very balanced agreement, firstly because of the budget. The budget is on course and remains on course. You have made efforts and taken measures to keep the 2015 budget on track. You have laid down the main lines of the 2016 budget. I believe that this is a significant achievement because you decoupled that budgetary exercise from the fiscal reform. This exercise is mainly based on structural efforts. What should a government do, what should a government not do and how can we ensure that a government becomes more efficient? That is the challenge in this budgetary exercise. I have seen times when, in October, we had to run a race against time in order to have a budget submitted in time for the European Union to take advantage of it. I tell you, if the government succeeds in laying down the guidelines for next year's budget on 23 July, that is a strong and very trustworthy signal. Secondly, I would like to point out what was the commitment of this whole tax reform for us. After all, it is more than a shift, it is a tax reform. It is about how tax measures can stimulate our economy. How can we ensure that the early economic growth we are experiencing in the coming months and years can get a boost? How can we ensure that people who do not make too much money but who cost too much are left net more? How can we get rid of this paradox, how can we ensure that gross wage costs go down but that people have more net left? That is what we want to see done with this tax reform. For this, we will shift taxes for a total amount of EUR 7 billion, if you bring the two shifts together. This is done in a way that does not reduce people's purchasing power. On the contrary, if you look at the whole range of measures, you will see that we have a net surplus. Purchasing power is improving. This is vital for an economy. If the opposition is concerned today about this purchasing power, I repeat that the welfare envelope, which this government pays out for the first time at 100%, whereas it was only 60% in the past, has been consolidated, not only for next year, but for all subsequent financial years within this legislature. So this government has a heart, ladies and gentlemen! Don't say this government wouldn't be socially just. That's not right. Indeed, we need to take measures so that working people have more net left. Hence the importance of abolishing the 30% tariff in the long term. We need to ensure that people with lower incomes and middle incomes have a monthly increase of EUR 100 per month through a strengthening of the work bonus. That was the focus of this discussion. Who dares claim that this 100 euros would be a big deal? This is an extremely strong signal, also vis-à-vis employers. The people who work and the people who work are, in my opinion, the two winners of this agreement. We're making the option out of the coalition chord hard. The contribution of 32 to 33 % will be increased to 25% in the long term. In this way, we will completely eliminate the labour cost handicap before 1996. All the resources to finance that, to make people survive more, to encourage people who work to create jobs, come from a defendable and balanced tax shift. It's about unhealthy consumption, about eco-taxality and speculation. These are all recommendations that have been forwarded to our country by the European Union, the IMF and the OECD over the past few months and years. So those are the winners of this agreement. I read tweets today. Which party made it? Which party won? Which party has lost? The working people have won. The economy is the winner of this agreement. Your government is the same, Prime Minister. The budget is on course. Tax reform is in progress. There is a restructuring of the railways and of the Justice Department. Prime Minister, continue to reform this country. You lead our country to a brighter future. That is why you deserve our support and our respect.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip068x.u62	Minister of Budget, Prime Minister, six months ago, you announced a tax shift, a tax shift, a reorientation. We were going to see what we were going to see! Today, everything is seen! We received the table and the numbers spoke. No turn! No reorientation! Sometimes we see a deepening, a strengthening, but no reorientation. Yet, Mr. Geens, you called him your vows! You said, in an interview, "I don't see how public spending could be cut further!" Mr Peeters, you said the same thing last December: "We can't touch public spending anymore!" Today, in the table, 1.7 billion public expenditure has been cut in two years. Mr Beke: "There are no savings to be made in social security!" Today, the picture tells us that, on the legislature, from now on, 1.7 billion savings will be realized at the level of social security. Is this your tax shift? Is that what you were waiting for? Mr Reynders, you came this morning on radio to present, on behalf of the Budget Minister, the elements of the agreement. Replace the company cars with the increase in the net wage, that's what was going to be the tax shift! Nothing! Today, nothing has changed! No reorientation in this area! No tax shift as announced! Yes, Mr. President, this is an opportunity that is missed for more tax justice, missed for a sustainable economic recovery. I am also thinking of commuters who were probably waiting for a gesture. No! The three billion savings to be realized in the legislature are now confirmed. I am thinking of the young people who were probably waiting for a signal too. The signal they receive takes only one line in the table: a one-year anticipation of the measure of degression of unemployment for the 22 to 25 year-olds. Is that your tax shift? An anticipation, a deepening? Congratulations to the CD&V! We could hope for something else from you! We can't see anything! We were waiting for a tax turn, we have a tax mirage!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip068x.u63	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip068x.u64	No, Mr. Carcaci, that's not what we agreed. I call Mr Penris. Mr Penris does not speak. I call the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip068x.u65	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip068x.u66	Mr Carcaci, you did not raise a question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip068x.u67	Mr President, at 11.30 a.m. I received a call from the services saying that the topical and urgent debate was being replaced by a debate on the tax shift!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip068x.u68	Everyone's registered, but not you! I'm so sorry.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip068x.u69	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this is certainly an important moment since the establishment of this government coalition after the elections. This government decided to start, nine months ago, a process of economic and social reforms with a conviction, a conviction rooted among the four parties of the majority. The best ability to preserve our social protections, to guarantee the financing of pensions, to guarantee the reimbursement of health care for, unfortunately, those who are ill, depends on the ability to support economic activity in the coming years and to create many additional jobs. The second conviction of this government is that this ability to create jobs will not fall from the sky. It will not be realized if there is no boldness, courage, ability to make choices and take responsibility. In recent weeks and months, I have committed myself, on behalf of the government, to the Chamber, but also to the social partners, to start fiscal reform by the summer, with the primary aim of achieving greater balance and economic efficiency to strengthen our economic model and thus the sustainability of our social model. This commitment that I have made to Parliament and the social partners, with the support of the majority, is being fulfilled and honoured. [[Applause on the benches of the majority]] Ladies and gentlemen, we have made two important commitments for the future; we have taken two important decisions, particularly for the youngest generation. Our first decision is to clean up public finances. It would be easy not to pay attention to a balance in 2018, but that is not our choice. Our choice is confirmed today to go to a budget balance in 2018. This is, after all, the best guarantee of credibility and credibility for our investors, for those who have faith in our country, for those who want to support and strengthen our economy. That is the first clear choice we have made. We have chosen to clean up, but not by the easiest way; not by increasing taxation or by increasing revenue. Our choice was to focus on the consolidation of our budget, first of all by trying to better organize public life, the authority and the capacities of government and administrations in order to fulfill the missions intended for the population. It is also about strengthening the good governance and efficiency of public services. It is the permanent duty and the never-ending goal of those who assume public and political responsibilities. The first point is therefore settled. We're in the race. The 2015 budget is under control. And, for the first time in a long time, in July, a government drew a trajectory for the following year's budget. It has not happened in our country for many years. [[Applause on the benches of the majority]] Ladies and gentlemen, the reform is important, but it is not enough, we must do more, we must do better. Our second commitment, in addition to the reorganisation, is the competitiveness of our companies, of large companies, but also of small and medium-sized enterprises. That is a strong choice, a strong commitment. I have had the privilege of sitting as a parliamentarian in this chamber for many years. I know that regularly, officials of all political parties, the majority and the opposition, say that we have a problem, the wage handicap. It is our ability to enable people who give work, through reforms in the area of wage costs, to achieve the objective in terms of job creation. For the first time in years, a decision is taken, with courage, responsibility, ambition, to achieve within a very short time – a few years – the elimination of the wage handicap. It is simply a question of creating the conditions for tomorrow's hiring to be more encouraged than job creation to be a reality; because job creation is the ability to finance our social protections over the long term. I would also like to point out that our country is a country of small and medium-sized enterprises. We know how important those who work daily in small and medium-sized enterprises play a key role in the daily economic life, prosperity, the capacity to meet the needs of the population, the capacity for development and therefore the solidarity of our country. For the first time in a long time, we are making decisions. We allocate EUR 430 million for concrete decisions, for job creation and productive investments in SMEs. That too is a clear direction, a clear choice. This is proof that this majority, this government, is able to listen to the aspirations of SMEs and to take concrete measures and decisions. This gives a strong signal. That's not all. We are also convinced that in our country industry plays an important role, that technology and the capacity to invest more in innovation are crucial for the future, for tomorrow's jobs and for the day after tomorrow. That is why you have also seen in the table the willingness to implement a measure to encourage technological investment, particularly in the industrial sector. This is also why you have seen complementary measures to enhance the attractiveness of teamwork and continuous work, thereby supporting the economic fabric, avoiding job destruction and allowing for additional job creation. Apart from the clean-up, competitiveness and concrete decisions, there is also the purchasing power. Yes, we are assuming. With our tables and our decisions, there is a clear redistribution and a new distribution of purchasing power. The focus has been placed on low wages and middle wages. The priority is to ensure that low and average wages receive an average of EUR 100 net per month; an additional 13 months for low wages. That's what this is about. Is this a small decision? Is this a banal decision? No, it is in a clear commitment that calls for building trust, respecting and encouraging work! Ladies and gentlemen, it is a choice to reduce the overall tax burden in our country. We are clearly making a choice for financing competitiveness measures and purchasing power. We are indeed convinced that we must be brave today and that we must accept our responsibility today. That's right, we make choices in the direction of electricity consumption in a very measured way. I would like to reassure you here of a possible imprecise presentation of the table. In the case of schools and social housing, this is the opposite, since we are opening up an opportunity for dialogue with Entity II to consider the ability to boost investment through VAT cuts or increased access to reduced VAT for the social housing sector, on the one hand, and for the school sector, on the other. Mrs Onkelinx, if, thanks to a reduction in VAT, we increase activity in the construction sector, we increase revenue!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip068x.u70	We will indeed also work on eco-taxality. We will also work on the basis of non-wage income. Yes, we are also making choices about capital, but choices that make economic sense, choices that ensure, while putting equity in the tax system, that we can support the ability to develop the real economy and the jobs associated with it. Finally, it is also a commitment that we made several weeks ago, which is confirmed today by the decision that was taken. We want to continue to strengthen the efficiency of government, try to generalize centralized procurement. We want better management of the state's real estate assets, ministry by ministry, service by service, department by department, so that every euro public is properly spent. Indeed, we know that a public euro is always a euro paid by the taxpayer. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to tell you that the majority has worked a lot in recent weeks. Almost exactly one year ago, with four party chairmen after the elections, we made a courageous and not an easy choice by forming a Swedish coalition. That wasn't obvious. It was not easy for any of the four parties to engage in negotiations in an attempt to highlight the points that bring us together rather than those that divide us. More than ever, with the decision we make, we point out, we strengthen, we strengthen the conviction that we share the need to create activities, to create jobs. We have the will to roll up our sleeves, look at the future, to make sure that young people, who are now unemployed, are given a perspective that they will find one tomorrow. We hope that older unemployed workers will be able to return to work through incentives. Thus, by 2018, €7.2 billion will be mobilised to give oxygen to our economic development. I hear accusations on some opposition benches that this government would not be social, would be murderous. For my part, I am convinced that what would be murderous, what would be profoundly antisocial would be to stand by, to do nothing, not to take our responsibilities. Know that, as far as we are concerned, we are taking our responsibilities! (Applause) I would like to conclude my speech by telling you that, because we are genuinely passionate about democratic debate, we will continue, in the coming days, when we return home, to discuss each line of this programme, every planned measure, because we believe that this is necessary for the economic and social future of our country. We will continue our work in accordance with the parliamentary debate, with a view to conducting a quality debate. To conclude, I will tell you these few words. At this important moment for this coalition, nine months after it took office, I would like to thank from the bottom of my heart all my colleagues who, with me, decided to come together to try – and it was not simple – to solve the 2015 and 2016 budgets, to give economic, social and fiscal impetus. The majority in this country is stable and solid. She knows where she wants to go. We see the course and know the orientations. We are motivated, we are determined, we will work much and hard to achieve results. No results for a political majority, but results for the companies, for the families, for the people. That is our intention, that is our final argument. Thank you for your support. [[Applause on the benches of the majority]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip068x.u71	Mr. President, I'm gonna break the mood a little bit. Prime Minister, we do not have exactly the same reading grid. I only have a minute, so I'll be very clear. Mr Peeters, I told you on 20 February in committee that the aim of the index jump was to be able to apply an increase in VAT. What did you say to me? That this is not true and that VAT will not be affected. What is happening today, however? You bring the VAT from 6 % to 21 %. That's what this is about. The intention of an index jump was clearly an increase in VAT to block our salaries. I'll say it to the right. If you think you're quiet with the social movement, you're wrong. The anger is deep! The appointment is set! On 7 October, in the streets of Brussels, the whole social, trade union and political movement will not accept your blackmail towards the workers. If you thought autumn 2014 was hot, autumn 2015 will be hot. You can hang on!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip068x.u72	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have been criticized for not being happy. I'd like to remind you why. We expected what was promised: in a way, a tax revolution. There aren't any! On the other hand, you made a choice. Between taxing annuitants and drinkers of soda, you have chosen to tax soda drinkers much more than the one who realizes an added value of several million euros. This is tax injustice and we do not agree with this policy. You have spoken of the increase in low and medium incomes, and we are pleased with that. Who would do the opposite? However, at the same time, you increase the VAT on electricity, you make an index jump, you impose the diesel tax as well as other taxes on consumption. The increase in VAT is taxation, the most unjust taxation because it strikes low and high wages in the same way. You give it with one hand, but you take it from the other! That's what I call imposture. As far as employment is concerned, you are announcing a reduction in employers' social contributions. We have already done it in the past. I am not opposed to this policy. Nevertheless, every time we wanted to impose hiring obligations on employers. We said we wanted to give gifts, but in return, we wanted to create jobs. Where are the obligations for companies here? I don't see any. It also represents social injustice. Finally, I would like to mention the great forgotten ones in your exercise. You say, and Mr Vuye has repeated, that workers will be taxed but will benefit from an increase in income that will compensate, more or less, for the loss. What are you doing with more than two million pensioners and other social beneficiaries? They will be subject to an increase in VAT and taxation on consumption without any compensation! Yes, it's obvious the PS isn't happy. This has at least one advantage, which is to show what is a right-wing government that favours the wealthy and taps on medium and modest incomes. It's not our choice, it's yours. In this sense, with this exercise, you are completely unmasked!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip068x.u73	Prime Minister, in this hemisphere and outside, your cabinet has often been called a squabble cabinet. I hope that will be stopped now. You've proven it's not a bickering cabinet, it's a results cabinet. The results are here. The tax cut is here. People pay less taxes. The government's seizure is falling towards 50%. That cover's fixed. There is a cost reduction of EUR 8 billion. There are 8 billion euros of burdens away from work. That is a very important measure. There are lower burdens on people and lower burdens on businesses. You started here with a very ambitious government agreement, Prime Minister. You kept your word. Your government has kept its word. My party has kept its word.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip068x.u74	Mr. President, Prime Minister, you are telling the envious that the government is taking on its responsibilities. Since I sat in this chamber, who is the Prime Minister who has not come to tell us, at every budgetary control, at every major stage of government decision-making, that there was finally a government that took its responsibilities? I do not deny that you are taking it, but the question is whether it is in line with your electoral commitments. Where is the great tax reform that will really benefit workers and the middle classes? Compared to what was in your election program, you are very far away! I demonstrated it. That is what is basically the cheating of this government! You're not going to touch the legal retirement age: you're going to touch it! You probably won't touch VAT: you touch it! You said you were going to do a tax reform that would not have any budgetary consequences but would, I would remind you, increase the revenue by 300 euros per month between 45 000 and 50 000 euros: that was your commitment on television sets. You are not achieving these goals! All this is the total revelation of how you explain to the citizens that by believing in your illusions, they will lose total confidence at some point. Don't worry, read the first reactions: your government is that of taxing rabies, that's what citizens think!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip068x.u75	Mr President, Prime Minister, I expected you to give an answer on injustice, because that was the main message of many people from the opposition. You didn't say anything about that injustice. You have said that the focus is on the lowest incomes. That is true, because they are now the most affected by your reforms. I am going to read something briefly: people want to make a contribution to getting the country healthy, at least if everyone contributes fairly and to their ability, but that balance turns out to be sought. The rich spring from the dance. The burden is largely on the ordinary shoulders. That's from Mr. Vercamer from CD&V. Mr Vercamer, I saw you applaud earlier. I'm really wondering why. The tax shift isn't here. The load on power isn't there. Mr Verherstraeten, don't say there is. I just received two tweets from your fellow Members, saying that I am right and that there is no problem with power. How do you explain that? Prime Minister, first of all, the EUR 100 for compensation is not available. We do not find them in your tables. It's not enough. Where's the compensation? Secondly, the increase in VAT will take place immediately, in September, with possible compensation in 2018. The speculative tax is a joke, you know that too, EUR 28 million. Plus, the negatives again, another gift. Finally, Prime Minister, in the past you have said: 'This is the only index jump that this government will make.' This morning, one of your fellow Members made it very clear that VAT on electricity is going out of the index. So there will be a second index jump. Another promise you'll break. What is the conclusion, ladies and gentlemen? The tax shift was supposed to bring a fair distribution. Of course, the burden on wages should go down, through a tax shift that is fair. It had to be done. You do exactly the opposite with your government.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip068x.u76	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, a majority group leader has said, without laughter, that in this budgetary decision there was no increase in VAT but a correction of a historical error. It was a nice nose to his colleagues in the majority who had assumed this reduction in VAT in the past. When we're at this level of truth, it's trying to get us to take bladders for lanterns. Prime Minister, I have no problem with your ambitions and your speech. I can share them. On the other hand, their implementation raises questions. You say that every effort must be made to create jobs. But why not target reductions in social contributions? Why do you take linear measurements? Why not seek a reduction in corporate tax so as to bring it closer to European averages? Why not call into question notional interests which do not primarily benefit small and medium-sized enterprises? You also say that we need fiscal consolidation, and I have no concern with that statement. But at what cost? At the cost of a forced march, with linear measurements, dark blind cuts, without any selectivity. What you said is not reassuring. On the contrary. You have not denied the drastic measures, the additional cuts and the dark cuts that will impact social spending. You pleaded for purchasing power. How can I not agree with you? But then why do you increase taxes? To the limit, soda taxes will not disturb anyone in this assembly. But what about VAT on electricity, a basic product? What about excise duty on diesel, in disregard of workers? In your tax shift, Prime Minister, there is shift but above all a lot of taxes on the backs of families, households and workers. This gap between your ambitions, your discourse and the reality that people will face is a problem for us.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip068x.u77	Prime Minister, if there had been a tax on commonplaces and empty words in your tax shift, you would have made a big contribution. Your speeches are the same before and after this exercise. You said that this government is brave and how, in a difficult coalition with four parties a year ago, you had the courage to take that step. Who really has courage in this country? These are the SMEs that will still pay the full amount of corporate tax. These are all the workers in this country, who are sweating every day, and the young jobseekers in the labour market looking for oxygen and perspective. These, Prime Minister, are the brave people in this country. Those brave people were first presented with a government agreement with one invoice after another, such as an index jump, the pension bonus, part-time work, the waiting allowance and so on. Those same brave people present this exercise to you today. It would be brave, Prime Minister, to tackle taboos and sacred cottages, barracks, commercial vehicles and the absence of a real contribution from the greatest capabilities. Then you could talk about political courage, then I would applaud and say that you are a courageous Prime Minister, unlike the old crocodiles who have been here before, and that you dare to reform. I would have said that you deserve a prize for political courage, not today. Mr Peeters, I would like to clear up one misunderstanding. You have just shook your head, made a horizontal move, when I pointed out that there are more savings in your departments than there is a contribution from the assets. At that time, you shook "no'. You have seen that too, Mr Frédéric. He doesn't agree. Then what is the EUR 1.7 billion in your table, Mr Peeters? I want to be more specific: EUR 1.775 billion in additional savings in your department. I turn the page and with a maximalist interpretation of the capital contributions I come to EUR 1.5 billion. You have saved more on your own departments than there is a contribution of the greatest capabilities. You disagree? Then I want to see the other table. Is there another table? It's either one or the other.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip068x.u78	You have to finish, Mr Calvo.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip068x.u79	I'm trying to finish, fellow Members.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip068x.u80	You've got 15 seconds. Ladies and gentlemen, let Mr Calvo speak.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip068x.u81	Mr Van Rompuy, Mr Beke, Mr Verherstraeten, Mr Peeters, I have seen the lack of enthusiasm on the CD&V banks. Colleagues, it doesn't have to be like that. It does not have to be Mr Jambon, Mr Michel and Mr De Croo. There is a majority in favour of a thorough fiscal reform. Now, finally, show her on your teeth instead of all those bitches, every day.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip068x.u82	Mr President, members of the government, ladies and gentlemen, until yesterday the members of the opposition claimed that there would be nothing from a tax shift; that he would be put on the long track. Now, ladies and gentlemen, there is a EUR 7.2 billion tax shift in front of it, with large assets contributing more than ever before. That's not a commonplace, it's the objective figures. I just heard the accusation we're giving and taking. Well, I'll take that as a compliment. Why are we organizing a tax shift? Isn't it to shift the charges? We give to labor and take capital gains, environment and consumption. Ladies and gentlemen, we do not transfer invoices to future generations. This agreement gives perspective to present and future generations. It gives perspective on jobs, purchasing power and on strong social security. This is a tax shift that is just for the strong, but with a heart for those who are struggling.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip068x.u83	This debate is closed and I propose that the sitting be suspended for ten minutes and that the pension law be dealt with in a straight line from 5.30 p.m. onwards. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 23 July 2015 at 5.30 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Thursday 23 July 2015 at 5.30 p.m.
