ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic197x.u1	Minister, my question was tabled some time ago at the time this commission was to be held. You've already responded in part last week. Perhaps you will have some additional elements to add.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic197x.u2	From 13 to 17 April 2015, the 48th session of the Population and Development Commission, chaired by Belgium, was held in New York. A large Belgian delegation participated. Mr Minister, I would like to have a report on Belgian participation in this Commission. What were the topics discussed and put forward and the positions defended by you and the Belgian delegation? Have you had any other interviews on the sidelines of this session? If so, what was the content of it? The issue of future Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) was addressed. You have already provided answers on these elements last week. Finally, it would appear that you also participated in the Development Committee and met with representatives of the IMF and the World Bank. What were the topics covered in this framework? In particular, has the issue of financing for development in general, and the SDGs in particular, been on the agenda and what position have you taken? How could parliamentarians be more involved in such events? It would seem important to me that, when Main Committees such as this one are held, there should be exchanges before the event, returns after and perhaps within a shorter period of time than at present, and why not have parliamentarians also accompany the Belgian delegation in organizing such events. On the other hand, I was very pleased to see that at least one representative of civil society was accompanying you on this mission, which is already a very good thing.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic197x.u3	Mrs Grovonius, this is already a few months old. I attended the plenary session of the 48th Commission on Population and Development, chaired by Belgium. The theme of the 48th Commission was the integration of population issues into sustainable development, including in the post-2015 development agenda. In my speech, I highlighted the following: first, the importance of integrating population issues and the principles of the CPD into the post-2015 development agenda; second, the need to take into account rights for all and to combat gender-based inequalities and discrimination. Gender-based discrimination and sexual orientation undermines respect for human rights and human development; thirdly, all women and girls should be free and make their own choices for their sexual and reproductive health; fourthly, young people should have access to the information they need to make their own choices in an informed manner; fifthly, the need to combat gender-based violence and impunity; sixthly, the importance of recognizing the rights of LGBT sexual minorities; and finally, the right to quality education and its crucial role in empowering women and girls and in valuing the demographic dividend. The issue of the future post-2015 sustainable development goals was therefore extensively addressed. In this context, Belgium argues that particular attention should be paid to human rights and sexual and reproductive rights. On the sidelines of the CPD, I met with the heads of agencies of several Belgian cooperation partner organisations, including Dr Babatunde, Executive Director of UNFPA, Anthony Lake, Executive Director of UNICEF and Valérie Amos, Director of OCHA. During my meeting with Dr. Babatunde of UNFPA, I thanked the Executive Director for the excellent collaboration that prevailed between the Belgian representation and UNFPA throughout the preparatory work of the CPD. We discussed the difficulties of implementing sexual and reproductive rights and the importance of access to contraception. Belgium's support for UNFPA was mentioned. In addition to the overall support for UNFPA, we have explored opportunities for delegated cooperation in the Belgian cooperation partner countries, particularly in the new partner countries. In this interview, I remember this sentence from the Executive Director: "If people have access to contraceptives, they use it lookless of religion or tradition". Anthony Lake, UNICEF Director, thanked Belgium for the financial assistance provided to UNICEF. Funding for regular resources is particularly appreciated as it helps to avoid fragmentation and to finance the priority activities of the 2014-2017 strategic plan. The fight against the Ebola epidemic was mentioned, in particular the efforts made by Belgium for humanitarian contributions, the dispatch of a laboratory to detect the virus and the involvement of the airline SN Brussels. We now know that Guinea is becoming a new partner country. Anthony Lake proposed that UNICEF become a partner of Belgian Cooperation in that country because UNICEF is working within the Communities in particular to strengthen basic health centres. This would help us to start quickly without wasting our bilateral activities with Guinea. Digital technology has been mentioned. Anthony Lake explained how it represented an important step forward in the implementation of UNICEF activities in the field. With respect to the post-2015 development goals, Anthony Lake believes that they must be child-based if these goals are to be sustainable. He wondered about the socialization of these objectives in the population. How will sustainable development goals be presented to the world? He pleads for movements in relation to these sustainable goals created through social networks on concrete themes such as climate change and children's rights to be understandable to the whole population. I met Valérie Amos, Secretary General of OCHA. We discussed the next issues. The main challenges related to humanitarian assistance were discussed. 80% of OCHA's work is now carried out in countries in conflict. The protection of humanitarian personnel is a real challenge. The next World Humanitarian Summit in Istanbul in 2016 was also discussed. It should allow for agreement on new practices for the implementation of humanitarian aid, on the financing of humanitarian aid and on respect for international humanitarian law. Ms. Amos thanked Belgium for its financial support in the context of humanitarian crises and for its policy of financing the regular resources of the particular institutions. With regard to your second question, I have indeed taken part in the spring meetings of the World Bank and the IMF, the work of the Development Committee being the major moment. This committee addressed the issue of financing sustainable development goals, which had been the theme of the discussion "From Billions to Trillions. Transforming Development Finance Post-2015 Financing for Development: Multilateral Development Finance [["]] The Chairman of the World Bank Group recalled the role that his institution and other multilateral development banks must play in the path to be followed in defining and achieving sustainable development goals. To achieve this, a paradigm shift is certainly needed in the area of official development assistance. This is what I have now learned from the main messages delivered at the Development Committee. First, there is a need to improve domestic resource mobilization. Current ODA (Official Development Assistance) remains fundamental. Countries that have committed themselves to 0.7 per cent must continue to do so. Private investment is essential, but public investment must also be strengthened through improved public financial management. The quality of any investment is as important as its quantity. The active promotion of the private sector must take place in an inclusive growth dimension. It is important to ensure that ODA actually reaches the poorest countries. The global development banks and the United Nations institutions must continue and consolidate their collaboration. The fight against illegal financial operations has been systematically highlighted. Finally, it is no longer enough for the global development banks to prepare a document together; they must now work together. This last chapter has not yet been written, but we must move in that direction. My oral intervention focused on the following. The world has changed substantially since Monterrey and Doha, especially when looking at external direct investment that now exceeds Official Development Assistance (ODA) in Asia, Latin America and Africa. We need smart development financing to leverage private flows and domestic resources. I also indicated that quantity should systematically rinse with quality. Finally, one of the smartest investments today would be to narrow the digital divide between countries, but also within one country. Information technology is a powerful tool for growth and human development. In conclusion, all financial flows will have to be mobilized and used in the most effective way possible to contribute to financing and thus to the success of future sustainable development goals.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic197x.u4	Minister, thank you for all the information you have been able to give us. I think it would be interesting to have information about the people, including the experts, who participated in the mission. How are the experts who accompany this type of mission selected? I am thinking in particular of academic experts. How is their profile determined? This is particularly important for the guidance that will be given to the elements that will be developed in the context of these missions. And even if this was not included in the text of my question, I would have liked to have been more informed about the parliamentary follow-up to this type of event. What procedure could we implement to ensure the involvement of parliamentarians before, during and after such events? It seems to me essential to have a look at what is happening there and to be able, if necessary, to influence the position that could be defended there.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic197x.u5	The people who accompanied me came from my office and the administration, as well as the representative of the Sensoa, namely civil society. As for the people I met, it is the embassy that makes a proposal on the subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic197x.u6	Is the administration the DGD?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic197x.u7	Yes, DGD and Foreign Affairs, because jurisdiction is shared. No one else came with me. As far as the involvement of parliamentarians is concerned, that would be possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic197x.u8	The goal really is that there can be systematic exchanges with parliamentarians in this kind of mission. The topics discussed are really important. It is also up to us to be very attentive and to try to systematize exchanges within this framework.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic197x.u9	Madam President, Minister, here is again a question from April, based on an article in Le Monde on April 13, in which the designers of the Social Progress Index (SPI) presented the first results of their work started in 2009. In 2015, 133 countries were analysed using criteria to measure this new index, representing 99 per cent of the world's population. The methodology used is fundamentally different from the GDP calculation, which to date remains almost the only internationally used and recognized index but which is based solely on economic criteria. In the case of the SPI, three lines of analysis are used to determine the capacity of a society to meet the basic needs of its citizens, to build the foundations of their well-being over time and to give them the opportunity to fulfil themselves. The results are quite significant and show that there is not necessarily an unconditional link between high GDP and progress in social progress. Despite the methodological weaknesses still existing today, particularly for data collection, the European Commission has apparently committed itself to integrating the SPI into its decision-making process, in the same way as GDP. I would therefore like to ask you, Minister, the following questions. Does the Commission's decision on this matter also apply to Belgian development cooperation vis-à-vis European partner countries? How can we also move within our development cooperation towards indicators that are more related to this type of approach and that would allow us to evaluate our projects and programmes differently? Could Belgium follow this procedure in the evaluation of its partner countries?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic197x.u10	Grovonius, the Social Progress Index developed in 2009 by Harvard University and a strategy consultant, American Michael Porter, appears at first glance relevant to classifying countries according to social and ecological criteria. This indicator is in addition to the traditional measures of gross domestic product and the human development index, introduced by UNDP (United Nations Development Programme) in the 1990s, or the gross national happiness indicator proposed by Bhutan in 1972. The index of social progress, which measures a society's ability to enable its inhabitants to maintain or improve their quality of life and to create the conditions necessary for them to reach their full potential, could, moreover, be used by the European Commission as a key to allocating funds to the European regions. While following closely the use that will be made of this indicator at European and international level, I believe, however, that caution must be maintained until a consensus is reached on the scientific validity of this index of a country's social measures. Indeed, several economists and sociologists stress the media fashion effect associated with this indicator as well as its lack of scientific validity. For example, the FAIR collective (Forum for Other Wealth Indicators) believes that the Social Progress Index does not integrate inequalities or indicators of solidarity and working conditions, such as the decent work criterion. He also pointed out that the index of social progress did not give sufficient weight to environmental issues. This is therefore one of several indicators that Belgian Cooperation can use to assess the performance of its partner countries. It is therefore important not to limit the analysis to a single indicator. Indeed, the reality of a country is often more complex than it seems. It therefore seems to me appropriate to have a nuanced approach that takes into account several indicators: the degree of fragility of a country, the human development index, the index of social progress, the Gini coefficient – which measures income inequality in a country –, the gross domestic product per capita, gender indicators, etc. The challenge is, of course, the existence of statistical data from which these indicators are constructed. Moreover, they must be accepted and recognized internationally by both developing and developed countries. Furthermore, as you know, the international community is developing more or less 170 indicators to measure the 17 goals of the post-2015 development framework, a framework that follows the Millennium Development Goals. The discussion of these 170 indicators shows that it is not easy to agree on the universal indicators developed to measure the economic and social progress of countries.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic197x.u11	Minister, thank you for your answer. I understand that we could, if necessary, question the relevance of including this indicator among others in our cooperation. I agree with you that if we want to measure the sustainable development of a society, we cannot limit ourselves to an indicator. It is an aggregate of several indicators that will give us a more authentic reflection of the degree of sustainable development. I am pleased that you are not closing the door, even though I understand that discussions are under way within the framework of sustainable development goals. It will be interesting to take into account what will be decided and developed in this area in order to possibly review how we use indicators in our development cooperation and how we evaluate our projects and the actions we develop.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic197x.u12	Madam President, Minister, since my question was tabled, there have been developments. Nevertheless, the situation remains dramatic. UNRWA called for the establishment of an emergency fund of $30 million due to the humanitarian situation in Yarmouk. The fund was intended to provide life-saving assistance, at the time, of 90 days to the approximately 18,000 Syrian and Palestinian civilians dependent on such humanitarian assistance. However, several difficulties arose at the time and still exist today, in particular in connection with the financing of this fund. UNRWA indicated that only a small percentage of the fund was actually funded. At the time, it was funded up to 18.5%. I don't know if that has changed a lot since then. Secondly, the difficulties encountered by humanitarian teams in accessing the area and delivering aid are also pointed out. The situation was dramatic and it was essential that we could make a fair contribution to enable UNRWA to deal with it. UNRWA recently welcomed the announcement by Belgium of additional funding, which I also welcome. Minister, can you tell us more about the amount that Belgium has made available and the final scope of this funding? More generally, would you be able to take stock of the situation on the spot today based on the information collected by your services? As far as the aid provided by Belgium is concerned, could you clarify where the amounts and their purpose come from? Finally, do you have any information about the other countries of the European Union in this context? If so, could we also benefit from it?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic197x.u13	Madam President, there is no improvement in the situation in Yarmouk. 2,000 Palestinian refugees were still trapped in the camps, while 18,000 had fled and were now in the makeshift camps in the surrounding area. The Palestinian hospital in Yarmouk was severely damaged by two explosions. On 28 April, in partnership with the Syrian Arab Red Crescent (SARC), an inter-agency convoy managed to enter Yalda, Babila and Beit Saham. Residents of these areas, as well as internally displaced persons in Yarmouk, have thus been able to receive crucial humanitarian assistance. The coordinated efforts of these partners have made it possible to access and provide such long-awaited assistance to the people affected by the conflict. While access to the areas of concentration of internally displaced persons in Yarmouk has been possible and could remain so in partnership with SARC, access within the Yarmouk camp is still impossible. This remains the priority for UNRWA, which reiterates its requirements for compliance with the obligation to protect civilians and the establishment of security conditions for the implementation of humanitarian operations by the Agency. Contributions have already been allocated to flexible humanitarian funds that provide urgent assistance and could therefore be used in UNRWA's operations for Yarmouk (IRF Syria via OCHA, €5 million committed in 2015 and CERF via OCHA, €20 million committed in 2015). In addition, in 2015 we contributed to UNRWA's overall resources in the amount of €18,750,000. These amounts will be liquidated in annual instalments in 2015, 2016 and 2017. These contributions are essential for our humanitarian partners on the ground, as they enable us to respond to such humanitarian situations with the flexibility of funding that is ideal at the operational level. Humanitarian organizations will therefore be able to use these same contributions, if necessary, in the context of the drastic deterioration of the situation in the Yarmouk camp in Syria. At EU level, ECHO has allocated additional funding to UNRWA of €2.5 million and to NGOs for operations in response to the Yarmouk crisis.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic197x.u14	Minister, thank you for those elements of the answer that are not at all reassuring. The situation remains just as dramatic. It is not clear how we will be able to get out of it and ensure that international humanitarian agencies can do their job. Nevertheless, I welcome the approach taken by Belgium, which in any case tried to meet its financial commitments. However, there is an urgent need to consider ways to help international agencies enforce international law in that region.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic197x.u15	Madam President, Minister, the Gender and Development Assessment in Belgian Cooperation, published on 26 March 2015, highlighted a concern about the lack of financial and human resources devoted to the implementation of recommendations presented as crucial by the Special Evaluation Service of Belgian Development Cooperation. The gap between policy and practical implementation remains significant. I would therefore like to ask you, Mr Minister, the following questions. Would it be possible to have an overview of people trained in the "gender" approach in the staff of the Belgian Cooperation? Are you planning specific ways to implement gender mainstreaming recommendations? Do you intend to support this idea of integrating gender into the Belgian cooperation cycle, with the need for the Directorate-General for Development Cooperation and Humanitarian Aid (DGD) to give greater weight to gender mainstreaming in its ex-ante evaluation of bilateral, multilateral and indirect interventions?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic197x.u16	Madam President, Mrs Grovonius, the training of Belgian Development Cooperation staff on gender issues is neither systematic nor widespread. Training is provided for new external career staff, but for internal career staff such training is not mandatory. I am convinced of the need to train all Belgian Cooperation officials on gender issues. This is one of my priorities in the new "genre" strategy of Belgian Development Cooperation. Gender should not be confined to specialized departments. This subject must be assimilated by each of the internal and external agents at all levels of the hierarchy. I have asked the administration to prepare a new strategy for gender mainstreaming in cooperation with an action plan. This strategy will be based on gender mainstreaming as well as specific actions and political dialogue. Funding arrangements will be specified in the action plan. In the programmes under implementation, the gender mainstreaming approach implies that gender specificities are taken into account in all actions, without however mentioning any specific budget. Projects targeted at gender issues are also funded through delegated cooperation agreements. Such a project is currently under negotiation with UNFPA for Mali. Gender mainstreaming in the intervention cycle already exists, but we need to strengthen it. This is a necessary condition for the effectiveness of our interventions, given the particularly difficult situation of women in many partner countries. Without understanding the situation of women and integrating their participation, sustainable results cannot be achieved in development cooperation. Gender mainstreaming is provided for in the scenario for the preparation of bilateral cooperation programmes. An analysis of gender issues then guides the strategy outlined in the background note. Taking into account the comparative advantage of the other development partners present in a country in a given sector, we can choose to delegate our funding to it if this makes it possible to increase the impact of Belgian cooperation on gender issues. With regard to indirect cooperation interventions, gender mainstreaming is analysed at the stage of assessing applications for funding. With regard to multilateral cooperation, Belgium supports a core funding policy. Gender mainstreaming is assessed in the strategic plans of partner organizations within the Executive Boards as well as in our bilateral relations, in annual consultations and in formal and informal exchanges.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic197x.u17	Minister, thank you. You seem to be paying attention to this issue and aware that there is still some way to go. Certain actions have obviously been undertaken. I will come back to you in the coming weeks or months to make sure that all this has taken place and that the developments have been as positive as you say this morning.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic197x.u18	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Sarah Claerhout converted 4235 into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic197x.u19	Madam President, Minister, International Labour Organization (ILO) Convention 102 deals with the minimum standard of social security. This includes guaranteeing: the provision of benefits to protected persons where their condition requires preventive or curative medical care; the award of sickness benefits to protected persons; the award of unemployment benefits; the award of old age benefits; the award of benefits in the event of accidents at work and occupational diseases; the award of maternity benefits, etc. It seems to me that this convention is in line with the resolution adopted by my colleague Karine Lalieux during the previous parliamentary term, which stressed, in particular, the importance of taking initiatives for the implementation of universal social protection. Mr Minister, can you tell me which partner countries of our Belgian Cooperation have signed this Convention? How can we encourage our partner countries to be part of this desire to develop a minimum base of social security? Finally, what importance do you attach to social security in your development cooperation policy?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic197x.u20	Madam President, Mrs Grovonius, ILO Convention 102, which deals with the minimum standard of social security and dates back to 1952, has been ratified by three Belgian Development Cooperation partner countries: Niger, the Democratic Republic of the Congo and Senegal. On 14 June 2012, ILO adopted at the 101st session of the International Labour Conference Recommendation 202 on social protection floors. This recommendation complements Convention 102 as it provides guidance for establishing the social protection floors adapted to the situation and level of development of each country. Recommendation 202 sets out social protection guarantees that should ensure access to health care and income security for all persons in need throughout their lives. Recommendation 202 states that social protection floors should include at least the following guarantees: - access to essential health care, including maternity care; Income security for children providing access to food, education and health care; - income security for persons of working age who are unable to earn sufficient income, in particular in the event of sickness, unemployment, maternity and disability; - income security for the elderly. The concept of social protection is therefore broader than that of social security. Social protection is currently very high on the international development agenda, as it is included in several of the targets related to the sustainable development goals of the post-2015 development framework. Belgium has been advocating for several months for social protection indicators such as universal health care coverage to be included in the post-2015 development framework. Social protection is certainly a priority for Belgian cooperation, as it is not only an essential need for each individual, but also an economic necessity for the sustainable and equitable development of each country. Investing in social protection is therefore both investing in human rights and in inclusive economic growth. I would also remind you that Belgian cooperation has a long tradition of supporting the social protection system: support for health mutuals for health care coverage through our NGOs; contribution until 2012 to the ILO's STEP programme against exclusion as well as to the programme on social dialogue through multilateral cooperation; support for free care and the health system in many countries through government cooperation. As regards how to encourage our partner countries to be part of the desire to develop social protection floors, I would like to point out that, obviously, social protection policies are the responsibility of States. It is up to each government to decide on the scope of social protection and the amount to be allocated to it. ILO studies show that funding for social protection floors is affordable in developing countries, since its cost is estimated at 3 per cent of GDP. Nevertheless, the choice of social protection for the population is a political choice.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic197x.u21	Minister, thank you for your answer. Indeed, it is a political choice, but at some point we can support it in a certain way, at least in contacts with the partner countries. A discussion is under way on the establishment of a social protection fund. You did not mention this in your answer, but I intend to come back to this specific issue at a later stage, especially before the Addis Ababa conference on financing for development.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic197x.u22	Minister, the Financing for Development Conference will take place in Addis Ababa in July, as Mr Grovonius said. The conference, and more specifically the agreements and outcomes it will bring about, is an essential part of the further process for the Social Development Goals later this year in September. You have just explained at the Conference for Social Protection in Brussels how much you value the importance of the SDGs. You have also repeated this in Parliament. A Belgian top representative of authorities in Addis Ababa speaks for itself. Nevertheless, several sources tell me that Belgium is strongly considering sending a delegation of officials to the conference. I would therefore like to hear an answer to the following questions, Minister. Who will send the Belgian government to Addis Ababa? Will Belgium be represented by the Prime Minister, the Minister of Finance or, better still, by you? You're probably invited to the conference, too. The importance of the conference cannot be sufficiently underlined. Have initiatives already been taken in the run-up to the conference to influence the outcome, for example through contacts with other participants? Can you explain what the government has already done? You have already done some of that in committee, but what will the government do from now on until July in the context of Financing for Development?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic197x.u23	Madam President, Mrs Van Hoof, the information you have is no longer correct. The Belgian delegation will be led by myself, in my capacity as Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Development Cooperation. It is also part of the delegation: Minister of State Annemie Neyts, representatives of my cabinet and my administration, representatives of the Treasury administration and representatives of civil society. The composition was discussed in the consultation body COORMULTI. We will focus on the following points. Firstly, we will emphasise the needs of the least developed countries and fragile states. Belgium argues that more of the ODA should go to these countries instead of less, as has unfortunately been the trend in recent years. More specifically, Belgium advocates the view that at least 50% of ODA funds would go to these countries. I will organise a side event in Addis Ababa on this subject, together with the Swedish Minister for Development Cooperation, the Minister of State and Economic Development of Sierra Leone and the Special Adviser to Mr Ban Ki-moon, Amina J. Mohammed. The new choice of Belgian partner countries, with a clear concentration on Africa, confirms this choice. Secondly, there is the importance of Domestic Resource Mobilization and improved functioning of tax administrations and collections in developing countries. Hence the recent decision of the Belgian Government to provide financial support for an IMF trust fund dealing with this issue in the future. Thirdly, there is the importance of combating illicit money flows and further supporting tools to combat corruption and promote transparency, such as U4 and the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative. Fourthly, there is the use of ODA as seed money to tap innovative sources of funding. Fifthly, there is the importance of non-financial resources for the implementation of the future development agenda. It is in this context, among other things, that I took an initiative in the EU Development Council on digitisation and development cooperation. Belgium therefore makes a clear choice for the poorest countries and for countries in a fragile situation, often due to conflicts. Belgium has a lot of expertise in this field, both through the choice of our partner organisations and through our multilateral policy. The Belgian position was prepared as a contribution to the development of the European position, finalised in the Council Decisions of 26 May 2015. The preparation of the Belgian priorities took place in the consultation mechanism COORMULTI, in which all interested federal and federalised public authorities can participate and where they can make their contribution. Given the importance of the theme of decent work as a motor of economic and social development and the Belgian co-chairship of the Group of Friends of Decent Work, I also agreed to be co-organiser of a side event in Addis Ababa about decent work, planned by the International Trade Union Confederation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic197x.u24	Madam President, I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. In any case, I think that these are absolutely very nice side events, namely around the least developed countries and around decent work, two anchor points of development cooperation policy. So I am very happy that Belgium will join those side events. Of course, in relation to the financial for development element, ODA is not the only source of financing for development cooperation or not the only source leading to a better income for people in developing countries. Tax money also contributes to this. I notice that, among other things, better collection and illicite money flows are being addressed. Minister, in relation to ODA itself, we still have the 0,7% in the coalition agreement. What position do you take and does the European Union take on this issue? You keep saying that that 0,7 % is not released, but is it brought forward as a whole? In your reply, I did not hear what that means in concrete terms for the development cooperation money, for the ODA money itself.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic197x.u25	Literally, I cannot tell you now, but the Council conclusions state that the commitment of 0,7% is a target within the deadline of the Sustainable Development Goals. So that 0,7% is very explicitly quoted.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic197x.u26	So that's being held.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic197x.u27	It is being held or that is what we are committed to. There is also a commitment to direct the ODA to the least developed countries, namely between 0.15 and 0.20 % in the short term and 0.20 % in the medium term. I do not know the exact definition of short and medium term, but the short term runs until about 2017-2018 and for the medium term it is slightly longer. Those Council conclusions are public, so you can find that information.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic197x.u28	Madam President, Minister, during the recent earthquakes in Nepal, international humanitarian aid has quickly mobilized to help the many victims. Since Belgium is at the forefront of urgent humanitarian action, a number of Belgian humanitarian organisations have left on the ground to help the Nepalese people. In particular, there is a Belgian team of Médecins sans Frontières (MSF) made up of health professionals (surgeons, doctors and nurses) who went to Kathmandu with the aim of going to the Gorkha region where the urgent needs for assistance were considerable. MSF sent tons of emergency equipment from its Neder-over-Heembeek power plant (drugs, surgical equipment, water sanitation products, telecommunications or logistics). Handicap International Belgium has also sent humanitarian aid on site, not to mention the departure of the B-FAST team, which has already been much discussed in the Chamber. Every year, Belgian NGOs leave the field following natural disasters or epidemics. The recent Nepalese disaster is just one example of the need for the coordination of Belgian actors in emergency humanitarian aid. One can also think of the fight against Ebola in Guinea, Typhon Haiyan in 2013 in the Philippines, at least the 2010 earthquake in Haiti. At each disaster, Belgian emergency humanitarian aid teams fly away within 48 hours to help the victims. Minister, what are the synergies between the federal state and the various humanitarian organisations based in Belgium? Is there cooperation between the various actors involved in humanitarian aid in order to coordinate urgent action during a humanitarian disaster so that the various actors can intervene in a structured and coordinated way at the departure of Belgium? Are there any collaborations, including material (purchase, storage, delivery) or joint training between the various actors involved in Belgian emergency humanitarian aid? I am thinking of possible partnerships between B-FAST and Belgian NGOs.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic197x.u29	Madam President, dear colleague, through the humanitarian aid department of the Directorate-General for Development Cooperation and Humanitarian Aid, the Federal Government is in regular contact with the humanitarian actors present in Belgium (Belgian NGOs, international NGOs and multilateral organisations). Operational debriefings on the evolution of humanitarian crises around the world are thus regularly organized. This information helps me, in particular to better understand the scale of needs on the ground and to identify priority crises in which Belgium could intervene. I would also like to point out that B-FAST is not a humanitarian agency, but a civil protection agency. This body does not therefore work on the basis of humanitarian principles. In doing so, it is not coordinated by humanitarian coordination structures. B-FAST is not my job, but my colleague, Didier Reynders. There is therefore no structural coordination between B-FAST and Belgian humanitarian organisations. Finally, the coordination of Belgian humanitarian aid is not done in Belgium, but in countries affected by a humanitarian disaster. In this context, the coordination of aid is the responsibility of the United Nations Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Assistance in Chad, which coordinates the work of all humanitarian actors present in a country and therefore not only Belgian actors. As I have already mentioned, to my knowledge there is no partnership between B-FAST and Belgian humanitarian NGOs. NGOs have their own European and international networks. This kind of collaboration exists well within their own families. So, for example, if you take Oxfam, there is a collaboration at Oxfam International, but not – to my knowledge – with other organisations. In addition, as NGOs are inherently non-governmental, my administration is not involved in any joint collaborations or formations.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic197x.u30	Madam Chair, Minister, thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic197x.u31	Minister, at the preparatory meeting for the UN Summit on Financing for Development in April 2015, you said digitisation is one of the Belgian priorities for financing for development. In your opinion, and I quote: "Internet and digital technologies boost economic, social and political development". The subject is therefore one of your priorities for the post-2015 agenda in the same way as social protection. Minister, what, then, is the context analysis that allows you to propose these kinds of priorities? Which partner country of Belgian Cooperation, especially since your decision to concentrate cooperation on the poorest countries, is it able to make practical use of the digital technologies you apologies for, especially in rural areas? We also know that social protection is one of your priorities for future sustainable development goals. How do you intend to implement this priority in practice? What kind of work will you prefer?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic197x.u32	Dear colleague, the analysis of the context on which we have based ourselves is widely shared in the United Nations reports on this issue. These reports note that the data revolution and the advancement of the digital agenda are important vectors for development, especially for the poorest countries. This data revolution will also help to better measure the progress of the international community towards the new and objective challenges of sustainable development, and to better identify data, inter alia, to better measure inequalities and identify the most vulnerable populations. Digital technology is also an important vehicle for inclusive economic growth and the defence of human rights. The new post-2015 framework will cover the period 2015-2030. The times have changed since the 2000 millennium goals, and the United Nations wants to recognize these changes. Let us therefore support the Secretary-General in his efforts. The report of the independent expert advisory group on the data revolution for sustainable development is available on the Internet. This prestigious report is well received by the international community, which recognizes its importance. Social protection and decent work are Belgian priorities in the post-2015 agenda. The Permanent Representative of Belgium to the United Nations in New York is co-chair of the Group of Friends of Decent Work, whose mission is to promote this agenda to the General Assembly and other high-level forums in New York. Belgium welcomes the work already done and still under way to achieve sustainable development goals. We believe that social protection and decent work can contribute to inclusive economic growth in developing countries. This is why the International Labour Organisation remains a partner organisation for Belgian multilateral cooperation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic197x.u33	I see a little clearer about the context in which you are developing this priority. Nevertheless, I remain somewhat puzzled about practical implementation. I did not find much on this point in your answer. We'll have an opportunity to talk about it again.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic197x.u34	Minister, a reform and recasting of the Foreign Affairs Office has been going on for a long time at various levels in order to meet today's needs and challenges. For example, in May 2012, there was the reform process at DGD in response to the reduction in the workforce and the very profound metamorphosis of international development policy. In September 2013, a reflection on the functioning and structure of the FOD's central administration followed. As a result, some structural measures have already been taken, such as the establishment of an informal horizontal mechanism of policy consultation between the relevant DGDs. Following the restructuring of the postal network at the end of 2014, the reform of the central administration's service structure is now on the agenda. In the note "Where we stand, where we want to go" The reform process at the Executive Board of the Executive Committee shows that the aim is to integrate development cooperation into foreign policy. This is from the perspective of optimization and modernisation of the FOD. In itself, there is something to be said for this. In times of savings, more than ever, we must join forces, seek efficiency gains and streamline the structure. However, there are a lot of worrying signals coming to me, which are also reservations from my party. It is primarily about the individuality of the policy and strategic role and task of DGD which is at risk of being lost as a result of integration. This particularity has been under pressure for several years because of the dramatic evolution of human resources through savings. It is also feared that integration will further strengthen it. On the other hand, a strategic reflection has been launched on the future role and structure of BTC, which is, of course, linked to the reform of the FPS and DGD. In addition, there is the fear of possible privatisation of essential services carried out by DGD. Finally, there is also a fear of a threat of an instrumentalisation of development cooperation for the benefit of Belgian economic interests. On this last point, our position is clear: we want a more coherent policy for sustainable development, with all policy areas incorporating a development reflex. However, we must ensure that the development objectives are not subordinated to other political or economic interests. You, Minister for Development and Cooperation, are watching over this commitment. Development policy remains an autonomous policy with an autonomous budget. However, in order to guarantee this, aid must be untied. The reforms would be planned by the end of 2015, which surprises me a bit. The chairman of the committee also said at the last committee meeting that we have not had a serious and thorough debate on the issue here in Parliament. We should expect to have an exchange of views on such an important reform, both with each other and with the services concerned. I would therefore like to ask you a number of questions about the reform we are discussing. Firstly, can you clarify the future prospects of DGD and BTC? What are the outlines and guidelines of the forthcoming reforms? Secondly, what is your response to the concern about reform, which lives with a lot of those involved? This unrest seems to be motivated by a lack of communication and a lack of transparency in the reform process. Thirdly, can you confirm that the planned deadline for the reform is at the end of 2015? Fourthly, how has the decision-making process or planned reform of DGD and BTC been going so far? What important steps have been taken? Who was heard on the matter? What steps still need to be taken? What's the timing? How will Parliament be involved in the planned reform?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic197x.u35	Madam President, it is true that my Foreign Minister, Didier Reynders, launched a reflection at the beginning of 2015 on a possible reform within the central administration of the Federal Public Service for Foreign Affairs, Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation. The reform would be the third part of a triptych with previously the merger of the three outside careers and a reform of our country's diplomatic post network. It is my colleague Didier Reynders who is responsible for the organisation and operation of the Department of Foreign Affairs, Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation. Requests for a wider exchange of views on the dossier should therefore be addressed to him. In reply, I confine myself to my area of competence. In April 2015, the Chairman of the Department's Management Committee, Mr Dirk Achten, presented a document to the Management Committee, giving an overview of the reforms already undertaken. It's an impressive list. Moreover, the objectives of the current reflection are also listed. The department must concentrate on its core tasks. More streamlined work is needed. Embroidery should be avoided. The different policy areas should be part of and contribute to integrated and coherent foreign action. The division of labour should be clarified in order to avoid duplication and ensure synergies. Efficiency gains should be pursued in times of savings and personnel reduction. I fully agree with those objectives for my competence. Development cooperation must not be confined to an ivory tower. On the contrary, development cooperation is an integral part of our country's foreign action. Just look at the action taken by the Belgian Government in relation to the situation in Burundi, for example. We use the tools we have at our disposal. In these countries, these are often instruments of our development policy. I think that the debate on instrumentalisation is a bit of a pass and a defensive one. Didier Reynders and I discuss Burundi almost every day. We use the tools we have to send clear signals. It is not true that in his memo, President Achten is advocating the integration of the Directorate-General for Development and Humanitarian Aid into other Directorate-Generals. Those who say that have not read the note or have other goals. However, a dozen or so decisions are proposed to achieve the stated objectives. Some of these decisions relate to the Directorate-General for Development and Humanitarian Aid. That's right. A number of management-general and support staff directors are less addressed. That is indeed the case. I have informed the President that it might be useful to bring together a broader set of reforms, which would enable synergies and efficiency gains to be pursued throughout the department rather than in some Directorate-General. It may take a little more time to put together such a more global, more balanced package, but I believe this is possible. If I'm well informed, there are ideas about that. In any case, I intend to follow this reform closely in direct consultation with my colleague Mr Reynders and through my representative on the Management Committee, of course as far as my policy is concerned. After all, a more efficient department that combines greater impact with the optimal use of resources also benefits Belgian Development Cooperation. Finally, please refer to the strategic exercise currently under way within BTC. This is an initiative of BTC that I naturally follow with interest. Initially, I had reported to BTC that I would like to receive the conclusions of this exercise before the summer. Meanwhile, this deadline may prove to be too sharp and it will be something for the autumn. In the first place BTC needs to think about its role and operation. The whole development paradigm is changing. I therefore think it is healthy for BTC to reflect on its future role and added value in this changing environment. If BTC needs a little more time, then so be it. I have told you since my arrival that I am using the 2015-2016 period to think thoroughly about everything and to carry out the necessary reforms. From 1 January 2017, the new development policy must be operational. The same applies to any reform of BTC.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic197x.u36	You went very quickly, Minister, but I have been able to follow a number of things. I agree with your remark that development cooperation should not be locked up in an ivory tower. Foreign policy also has to do with this. I would like to ask you, however, if I may, to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs to include Parliament in the whole reform, which has an impact on the staff and structures of the various organisations, and to organise an exchange of views on it. As soon as your territory is dealt with there, we can look at it together. I didn't get any timing. I understood that you had promised, at the request of President Dirk Van der Maelen, perhaps to organise an exchange of views in October?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic197x.u37	I have said that I rarely say no, if the committee asks me anything.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic197x.u38	I thought we already had a date.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic197x.u39	We haven't set a precise date yet, but we're looking for a date.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic197x.u40	I suppose it can be done before the end of 2015. We would also like to exchange views with the people of BTC and DGD. So I would like to make a warm appeal for a closer look at the whole reform.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic197x.u41	Madam President, Minister, at the end of January an amount of EUR 2 million was released by Belgium for urgent humanitarian aid in Ukraine. In that country, 1.5 million people were displaced as a result of the ongoing conflict in the eastern part of the country, in Donbass. With this assistance, the International Red Cross would be able to assist the affected populations by providing them with temporary shelter, food and water. The situation has only worsened with difficult winter conditions. A lack of medicines, a resurgence of tuberculosis, power cuts and drinking water shortages have added to the hell of the armed conflict. Minister, how do you view the humanitarian situation in Ukraine? Could you provide us with an account of the situation on the spot? What about assistance to the population? Is it sufficient, equitably distributed, relevant and concerted? What is the status of housing, health, access to medicines, water, food and electricity? Has the situation improved with regard to payments of pensions and other financial payments? They had been suspended and had placed part of the population unable to secure, among other things, the payment of rents. What did the amount allocated by our country contribute to? What sectors have they benefited from?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic197x.u42	Madam President, Mr Blanchart, insecurity has intensified in various places along the contact line leading to further suffering. On 3 June heavy fighting was reported around Marinka, near the town of Donetsk. The fighting caused casualties, displacement and interruption of basic services. There are currently 1.3 million internally displaced persons and over 860,000 refugees in neighbouring countries. It is estimated that 3.2 million people are in need of humanitarian assistance. More than 15,960 people were injured and more than 6,400 killed. There is currently a lack of assistance. Indeed, funding is too low and the limited number of partners on the ground prevents many humanitarian agencies from increasing their assistance. According to the Humanitarian Response Plan of the Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs (OCHA), a budget of $316 million is required to meet humanitarian needs. Only 30 per cent of this amount is currently funded. Access to water is particularly difficult in several areas along the line of contact, with affected populations having to travel long distances to obtain water. In Marinka and Krasnohourivka, it is estimated that 10,000 people have no access to water in recent days. Thousands of people in the government-controlled areas of Luhansk Oblast do not have access to water in Pervomaïsk, Stakhanov, Kirov and Kirovsk. Several projects are funded by the European Commission's Humanitarian Aid Office (ECHO) in the areas of housing, access to water, hygiene and sanitation. Through a project funded by ECHO and implemented by UNICEF, more than 60,000 families and 20,000 schoolchildren in Kharkiv, Donetsk, Lugansk and Severodonetsk have access to drinking water and basic hygiene products. Pensioners domiciled in separatist-controlled areas may, in principle, continue to receive their pensions if they register in government-controlled territory, which 578,300 of them would have done. This leaves a priori 169,000 pensioners who have not been able to do this in poverty. However, the government reacted to this announcement by the rebels, who now claim to pay pensions in rubles to 280,000 people, thus trying to establish their credibility as a state vis-à-vis the population. In reaction, the Ukrainian authorities announce that if they discover that these people receive this pension in rubles, they will lose their right to a Ukrainian pension. As part of the implementation of the Minsk agreements, working groups were set up on 6 May, including a group to address the problem of financial payments and the restoration of banking services. In 2015, Belgium granted two million euros to the ICRC, which pursues five main objectives in the field of protection. The first is to assist families in conflict or other situations of violence. The ICRC then provides care for the wounded by weapon and the disabled. It also promotes respect for international humanitarian law. Another mission is to visit detainees. In addition, he is trying to restore family ties. Finally, it supports national companies in improving their response capacity. I also answered some of the questions raised by Mr Luykx.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic197x.u43	Minister, thank you for your almost complete answer. It is difficult to verify the fairness of the allocation of funds, given the tensions between the two Russian-speaking and Ukrainian communities. Are the Donbass populations beyond government control really helped? Given the corruption in this country, it seems to me very difficult to control the situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic197x.u44	Madam President, Minister, the Central African Republic has been experiencing a period of unrest since 2013, when the Séléka rebellion overthrew the current President. The former rebellion was ousted following an intervention by the French army in January 2014. Since the beginning of the conflict, approximately 900,000 people have fled their homes while 460,000 have fled the country. The humanitarian needs remain immense. More than half of the inhabitants live in conditions of extreme poverty. More than a million and a half people suffer from food insecurity. This situation has prompted the United Nations humanitarian coordinator to draw the attention of the international community to the need for an urgent response. The United Nations Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs would have received only 14 per cent of the $613 million planned for that country in 2015. The same can be said of the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, which received only 9 per cent of the 331 million planned for 2015. A call for donations was made in view of the urgency of the situation. Mr Minister, is Belgium already participating or will it participate financially in this aid programme both bilaterally and multilaterally? Has the current humanitarian situation in the Central African Republic ever been at the centre of discussions at a meeting with your European counterparts?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic197x.u45	Ladies and gentlemen, let me first share the analysis of the latest developments in the Central African context. After a regime change in March 2014, the deployment of international armed forces and the promising Bangui Forum, the country is struggling to restore stability and order. Despite constant efforts to put an end to it, ethnic and religious tensions remain very prevalent. To date, a year and a half later, 2.7 million people are in need of assistance; this is more than half of the population. About 20 per cent of the population is displaced, whether within the country or in neighbouring countries. In Bangui alone, more than 58,000 people had to flee their homes and still live in the 34 makeshift camps and other sites. It is estimated that 60 per cent of them are children. Thousands of people are left without assistance. There are also new armed groups with the fragmentation of ex-Séléka and anti-Balaka. Priority needs are in the areas of food, health care, water and hygiene, shelter and basic household supplies. Serious concerns regarding the protection of civilians are also identified. The Central African Republic (CAR) is not a partner country for Belgian government cooperation. The country was until 2006 a partner country for indirect cooperation but was subsequently removed from the list. Nevertheless, in response to the major crisis facing the Central African Republic in early 2014, Belgium allocated 5 million of its humanitarian budget to this crisis: 1 million for a UNICEF project for Central African internally displaced persons in the DRC and 4 million euros for an intervention by the International Committee of the Red Cross in the Central African Republic. In 2015, €7,345,000 will be mobilised. Belgium has allocated €4 million in commitment appropriations to the Country-based pooled funds for the CAR, which will be liquidated in two annual instalments of €2 million in 2015 and 2016. I have given my consent to the granting of EUR 1.9 million WASH funding to Oxfam for a food security intervention and to the granting of EUR 1 435 000 funding to Médecins du monde for a health intervention. In addition, I have just agreed to a call for proposals worth EUR 14 million on humanitarian problems for the priority regions taken in the Belgian humanitarian strategy, including the Central African Republic. The humanitarian situation in the Central African Republic is regularly brought to the level of the Council of the European Union working group on humanitarian and food aid. On 26 May, a high-level conference was held on humanitarian and development assistance in the Central African Republic. This conference was initiated by the European Union and aimed, firstly, to put the Central African Republic at the top of humanitarian and development agendas; secondly, to plead for the critical period of recovery, a difficult period of transition between humanitarian aid and development aid; and finally to present the mechanisms of the European trust fund Bêkou and to raise the promises of funds from the European States. A meeting was held between Mr Reynders and the president of the CAR transition, Catherine Samba-Panza. This meeting was held on 27 May. Here's the information I can share with you. The situation on the ground is improving. There are 85 per cent of refugees who now wish to leave the camps. The Bangui Forum has produced encouraging results. The forum, which will have brought together more than 700 people, will have freed the floor and is a useful exercise in catharsis. The only marginalized groups were those in Nairobi: Bozizé, Djotodia. They want an amnesty and an opportunity to participate in power. They are not currently receiving any support. The government cannot consider amnesty for the time being because public opinion is against it. The 70 political parties insisted that they all be represented, some meaningless in electoral terms. They were rewarded by receiving heavy criticism from civil society. Among the many commitments made, the government should now set priorities and choose what it can do for the time remaining.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic197x.u46	I thank the minister for his very comprehensive response.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic197x.u47	Madam President, Minister, I also addressed this question to your colleagues, including Mr Franken, whom I interviewed, just an hour ago. Part of the question concerns you. In a study published, the International Federation of Human Rights Leagues (FIDH) ranks the 28 member states of the European Union against 67 human rights indicators and 17 environmental indicators. It is a practical guide for investors in bond markets and aims to encourage them to invest in states that respect human rights. Indeed, every two years, FIDH evaluates states on the basis of updated indicators based on the latest international legislation and relevant sources of information. In 2007, FIDH decided, with a view to comparability of data, to focus on the Member States of the European Union. I will not review the many criteria. On the specific issues, our country occupies a penultimate European position in the area of development aid/financial contributions to the UN, with a note of 2.5/10 based on the following indicators: bilateral official development assistance spent by OECD donor countries as a percentage of GDP; and the evolution of voluntary monetary contributions to the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights as a percentage of GDP. I imagine you're going to challenge those criteria, according to which our country is ranked according to this order, in the penultimate place. The conclusions of the report therefore tend to show that respect for human rights requires coordinated and cross-cutting responses. I would therefore like to know what concrete measures you are planning to take to combat this fact effectively, knowing that, according to the government agreement, "Belgium will make efforts, to the extent of budgetary possibilities, to reach the target of 0.7% of gross national income. At the same time, the Government is committed to creating a transparent horizontal budget allowing the integration of all budgetary expenditure on cooperation with the development of the various public services and departments. This can thus help to improve the price/quality of aid and coherence and complementarity with policies carried out by all federal departments and within the framework of the European Union. Our instruments must be used with maximum efficiency in order to achieve the greatest possible effect on the development of developing countries."
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic197x.u48	Madam President, Mr Kir, first of all, I would like to point out that under the Development Cooperation Act of 19 March 2013, human rights, or rather human rights, are taken up not only as one of the priorities but also as the basis for our cooperation. Article 2 of the Act defines human rights as "the universal and inalienable rights established in particular by the Universal Declaration of Human Rights adopted by the General Assembly of the United Nations on 10 December 1948, the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights adopted by the General Assembly of the United Nations on 16 December 1966, the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights adopted by the General Assembly of the United Nations on 19 December 1968, the Declaration on the Right to Development adopted by the General Assembly of the United Nations on 4 December 1986 and the Vienna Declaration and Programme of Action adopted on 25 June 1993 by the World Conference on Human Rights." Article 16(1) of the Act sets out the criteria used in the selection of partner countries for government cooperation. The fourth of these criteria is: "the partner country's efforts on good governance and human rights, including in relation to the elimination of discrimination and the promotion of equal opportunities." In concrete terms, Belgian cooperation is implemented through various channels: government cooperation, multilateral cooperation, government agreements, for which the principles of the Law on Cooperation are obviously applicable. Cooperation provides annual flat-rate funding to the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights (OHCHR) in support of its research, training, advocacy and normative work in the field of human rights. Within the United Nations, the objective of the OHCHR is to promote the right to development, coordinate United Nations human rights education, inform the public and strengthen human rights throughout the United Nations system. OHCHR strives to uphold universal human rights standards, including by promoting universal ratification and implementation of the core human rights treaties and respect for the rule of law. In addition, Belgian Cooperation also funds other international organisations whose respective mandates also cover human rights issues, including UNICEF, UN Women and the United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA). In the preparation of the new multi-year programmes with the partner countries of government cooperation, special attention is given to human rights, particularly children's rights and sexual and reproductive rights. There is also more ad hoc support for human rights initiatives implemented by NGOs, universities, etc. At the beginning of September, the staff of the Directorate-General will also have the opportunity to take training in the human rights approach in cooperation. The human rights approach is therefore taken into account in all Belgian cooperation programmes in a cross-cutting manner, which does not exclude specific complementary activities.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic197x.u49	Minister, as I understand it, you did not want to comment on the ranking of the International Federation of Human Rights Leagues.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic197x.u50	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic197x.u51	Of which act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic197x.u52	I haven't heard from Mr. De Vriendt as regards his question No 4690.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic197x.u53	Madam President, Minister, on 21 May 2015, the Belgian Council of Ministers approved your proposal for a new list of 14 partner countries for bilateral development cooperation. This list includes two new partner countries: Burkina Faso and Guinea. They are two countries facing very great challenges in the field of education and are characterized by an extremely weak educational system. A simple indicator will inform us: on the Education Index of the UNDP Human Development Report, Burkina Faso and Guinea respectively occupy 181st and 179th place on the list of 187 countries. The importance of education for fair and inclusive sustainable economic growth and for improving the processes of democratisation, citizenship and respect for human rights, both central to Belgian cooperation, has been amply demonstrated. In Burkina Faso, Belgium already has the experience of supporting the education system. Do you intend to pursue this programme in this direction? Will the overall strategy envisaged be different? If so, could you explain it to us? In the context of what is described above, do you intend to continue to advocate for education to be a priority sector in negotiations with both countries, and more broadly with our partner countries? At the budget level, particularly in the bilateral portfolio, attention for the sector has decreased significantly to the point where education is a priority only in four of the partner countries of Belgian bilateral cooperation. With the arrival of these new countries, do you think that the overall envelope for education could be increased? On these issues, what is your budget ambition?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic197x.u54	Madam President, the education sector was indeed one of the priority sectors of Belgian government cooperation in Burkina Faso, where Belgium financed a major programme of support for basic education, which ended in 2007. Support for the education sector remains a priority for Belgian cooperation. In general, the choice of intervention sectors in a partner country depends on several factors: an analysis of needs, the division of labour between the different partners, the comparative advantages of Belgium in a sector, and the demand of the partner country itself. The selection of priority areas for intervention under the cooperation programme on debt securities in the two new countries will take place on the basis of the above-mentioned criteria. The choice will, of course, also take into account the Education Strategy Paper. Where it is considered relevant, the education sector will be thoroughly examined, identifying possible support opportunities in this sector where appropriate. More generally, I have asked my administration to prepare for cooperation with the two new partner countries, Burkina Faso and Guinea. Two seminars will be held during the first half of September, each lasting one day, identifying the development needs of Guinea and Burkina Faso respectively. All organisations that can be useful will be invited: BTC, BIO, NGOs, universities, scientific institutions and companies. Belgium knows what it is good at in terms of development cooperation. Education certainly belongs to this, but Belgium does not itself decide what it does or does not do in partner countries. That kind of approach has been behind us for some time now, thank goodness. For the time being, it is impossible for me to decide on a future budget allocation for the education sector through government cooperation. De facto, if the education sector is selected as a sector of intervention in these two new countries, the budget envelope for this sector will increase. However, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, in times of budgetary contraction, we need to place even more emphasis on the impact and quality of our cooperation in a sector than on the amounts allocated to that sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic197x.u55	Minister, thank you. I agree with you on the qualitative aspect of the interventions, but sometimes the quality is also linked to the budgetary amounts allocated. There are ceilings below which it becomes difficult to do quality work.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic197x.u56	Madam President, Minister, the disaster in Nepal has shown this again: humanitarian tourism is doing well and is even growing, if you put it to me for such a sector. Volunteering is no longer the prerogative of non-profit organizations. Several companies specializing in international volunteerism thus offer expensive reconstruction projects to young people without any particular qualifications, from the age of sixteen. The concept is as follows: to visit the world while saving it. The sector is developing. As an example, the Swiss tourist agency STA Travel offers trips combining vacation and assistance to indigenous populations, turtles and even pandas. They last less than two weeks and cost – according to the Atlas association – an average of 2,800 euros. Part of the profit is supposed to be transferred to different projects, over which we obviously have no control. Voluntourism is a business that mixes billions of euros every year for 1.6 million people worldwide. The British organization Tourism Concern, which advocates for more responsible tourism practices, has denounced this state of affairs. According to Marc Watson, the idea that we can arrive, at twenty years old, in a completely different country and show people how to get out of it has something imperialist. There is no shortage of unskilled labour in Africa. By promoting free work, some people are being deprived of their jobs. In addition, volunteers build buildings that need to be destroyed and sometimes even rebuilt more appropriately at night. Even more serious, children are being trafficked to orphanages, particularly in India and Nepal. These new practices, also denounced by the association Nouvelle Planète, generate profits of 30 to 40%, while the sector averages 2 to 3%. Minister, what do you know about this situation? Do these organisations have a perverse effect on development projects in Belgium and Europe? Which societies are involved in our country?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic197x.u57	Mr Blanchart, I must admit that I am not familiar with this phenomenon of humanitarian tourism. Your question allowed me to do some research and discover rather disturbing facts. It turns out that, for several years, a new lucrative sector has been booming, that of humanitarian tourism or voluntourism. These are companies that use the commercial methods of mass tourism under cover of the image of international volunteerism. These travel agencies successfully resume the humanitarian concept to transform it into a lucrative commodity. It is not uncommon for a volunteer to have to pay between 700 and 2,000 euros, excluding transport, for two weeks of volunteering in a developing country. Like you, I condemn such practices. I am not aware of any activity of such organisations in Belgium. The examples you cite are foreign organizations. However, let's do the part: perfectly reliable and legitimate organisations organise trips to introduce them to development problems and allow young and old people to discover countries that are far from the usual tourist trails. It is a tourism activity that respects the natural and cultural environment, favours encounter and exchange and ethically participates in local development. This tourism has nothing to do with what you rightly say.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic197x.u58	Minister, sometimes there are useful questions!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic197x.u59	You're the one who said it!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic197x.u60	I wanted to pay attention to these new practices to avoid the perverse effects in the sector you manage.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic197x.u61	Mr President, Minister, on 3 and 4 June 2015, Brussels hosted the European Development Days (EDD) for the third time. The main objectives of the European Year of Development, namely the eradication of poverty and the promotion of human rights, were presented through numerous workshops. The central theme of the discussions reflected common aspirations such as a world at peace, education and jobs accessible to all, sustainable development, and a decent life in a respected and protected environment. Minister, what is the return of these JEDs? What is citizen involvement? How many visitors did they attend this forum? What is the profile of visitors? What are the most successful workshops, themes? Have any concrete actions or projects been put in place as a result of the discussions?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic197x.u62	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the European Development Days, organised at the initiative of Louis Michel when he was European Commissioner, took place this year on 3 and 4 June. This is an annual event of which the European Commission is the master of ceremonies. On 4 June, I had the opportunity to participate in a debate on the right to quality education. Her Majesty the Queen delivered the opening speech. Belgium was therefore able to express its views on this important issue. While the European Commission counted nearly 6,000 entries, not all were likely translated into actual presences. Nevertheless, this is a strong indication of the undisputed interest that these JEDs continue to generate. There was a strong presence of NGOs. Indeed, these JEDs represent an opportunity for them to highlight their many initiatives, particularly in the area of information and awareness-raising on development issues. In this regard, I have noted with pleasure the strong presence of NGOs from the most recent Member States of the European Union. Having said that, it seems to me that it is still too early to draw conclusions about these JEDs and the main interests of the participants. Their aim is not to reach operational conclusions, especially since their mode of operation, according to the wishes of their organizers, is to combine Davos and Porto Alegre. Nevertheless, the current international agenda, strongly oriented towards the preparation of future international negotiations on global sustainable development goals, has undoubtedly been its main backdrop.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic197x.u63	Thank you for the full answers, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic197x.u64	Mr Minister, in Lake Kivu, which separates Rwanda from the Democratic Republic of the Congo, some 60 billion cubic metres of methane and 300 billion cubic metres of carbon dioxide are dissolved. These gases, which come from the volcanic activity of the region and from the decomposition of the organic matter of the lake by bacteria, represent both a great economic potential and a great danger. For this country as for the eastern region of the Democratic Republic of the Congo, paralysed by power cuts and insufficient electricity grids, methane extraction could create new activities and alleviate extreme poverty. What Rwanda and the DRC have been trying to do for a very long time. After decades punctuated by slow advances and blockages, extraction processes finally accelerated through the KivuWatt project. If extraction goes well and if countries cooperate, it could even ease their tense relations and stabilize this long-torn region. What is your view of this project with significant energy potential? In your opinion, how could security, stability and poverty issues be addressed by this project? What could be the impact on the living conditions of the population in the region in general? Is Belgium involved in any way in this project?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic197x.u65	This infrastructure project seems particularly beneficial to me, on the one hand, because it makes it possible to consider reducing a significant danger to the population and, on the other hand, because it can both contribute to the development of local micro and small enterprises and thus consolidate the economic fabric in a fragile area and improve access to certain basic services for a population that is often in a situation of great poverty. In 2010-2011, when the Belgian Investment Corporation for Developing Countries, BIO, studied this project near Kibuye in Rwanda, it became clear that this intervention would contribute, inter alia, to increasing electrification in Rwanda, allowing 250,000 people to benefit from electricity coverage. In addition, it was estimated that the project would create a total of more than 400 jobs, including about 100 permanent ones. Finally, the project also includes funding for certain services to the surrounding population, education and support for income generation through fishing. BIO, the main specific tool of Belgian Development Cooperation to improve access to local private sector financing, has chosen to participate in this project since 2011 through the signing of a $10 million loan under the loan facility totalling $91 million from the International Fund for Africa, the Netherlands Development Finance Company and the African Development Bank.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic197x.u66	Thank you for the full answers, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic197x.u67	Mr Minister, at the last hearing in the Committee on External Relations on 2 June there was an exchange of views on the post-2015 development agenda and the sustainable development goals. In the context of inequalities related to energy resources and their implications in sectors such as education, global hunger and public health, you and Minister Marghem have mentioned a budget of €250,000 for innovative sustainable development projects. EUR 180 000 is also expected to be added from the private sphere. Minister, do you have any funding agreements with the private sector? If so, which ones? At this point, do you have any innovative projects underway? Can you tell us? What will be the criteria for selecting them for public and/or private consideration?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic197x.u68	Mr Blanchart, funding no longer exists. On the other hand, the main specific tool to support the development of the private sector of the developing countries of the Belgian Cooperation, namely, the BIO Investment Corporation for Developing Countries, has the mission to invest exclusively in the private sector of developing countries and has direct links with the private sector. The strategic note "Belgian development cooperation and local private sector" in support of the Sustainable Human Development Service of April 2014 provides for maximum emphasis on innovative approaches to the other two specific tools to support private sector development in developing countries, namely the Trade for development center. The aim of the programme is to improve access to producer organisations and to local micro and small enterprises which are part of a fair, sustainable approach and certain subsidies granted to operators with a view to strengthening the skills of local micro and small enterprises in an innovative way and in particular according to a peer to peer dynamic. These types of intervention will be significantly consolidated in 2016. Moreover, in the context of the European discussions on public – private partnership or financial mixing or instrument-based project, Belgian Development Cooperation particularly emphasises the importance of ensuring the addition of public funding and the challenges of strengthening rigorous monitoring systems to ensure respect for social, environmental and good governance aspects as well as the contribution of positive financing to development.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic197x.u69	Minister, I welcome this kind of initiative. The private sphere must interfere with these concepts of development. It must be encouraged. The private part is still not met. Imagination is also needed to find investors in this type of project.
