ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-16-54-commissie-ic194x.u1	Mr President, Minister, on Monday 1 June, six members of the "national-solidarist" political group (a neo-Nazi political group) called Nation stood out in the beating of a person in the Place du Luxembourg, failing to achieve what was their primary objective, namely a demonstration of undocumented people in front of the European Parliament. These people, gathered at the call of their party and the Flemish nationalist movement Autonome nationalisten Vlaanderen, are now under locks, which is already good news. But this beating, assumed and justified by their spokesperson, is only one more moment in an already long series of provocations and escalation in provocations and violence. It was also an opportunity for Mr Ducrame, in plenary last week, to call for a strengthening of your anti-radicalism policy. This is a strange approach in the fight against the extreme right! In the specific case of the political violence that some extreme right-wing groups exercise in the public space, Minister, there is no need for any plan, but political courage. A law, passed in a difficult context, at the darkest times of European history already allows our democratic state to react unambiguously against these groups. This is the Law of 29 July 1934 on the Prohibition of Private Militia, the first article of which deals with the prohibition of any private militia or any other organization of private individuals whose purpose is to use force or to replace the army or the police, to interfere in their actions or to substitute for them. The events of June 1 fall right into this field. The spokesman of Nation, who must know the subject well as a former police officer, confirms the "justiciary" approach of his group within the framework of a topic of the TV news of 1:00 p.m. of RTBF on Wednesday 3 June. The 1934 Act also states that "the conduct or participation in collective exercises, with or without weapons, intended to teach individuals about the use of violence is prohibited." Nation organizes such events, under a supposedly "ludic" mask. I could multiply to the envious the documented facts that indicate that Nation is a militia within the meaning of the 1934 law. So my question is simple - it was first addressed to the Minister of the Interior and then forwarded to you, Mr Geens - are you going to take steps to enforce the law and therefore prohibit this grouping dangerous to our democratic values?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-16-54-commissie-ic194x.u2	Mr President, Mr Thiébaut, I should like first of all to point out that the Private Militia Act does not give the Minister of Justice the power to prohibit a group. It is not a mechanism for the administrative prohibition of groupings. The law only provides for the possibility for the criminal judge to convict a person for participation in a private militia prohibited under the law. It is therefore the criminal judge who must consider the grouping prohibited in order to be able to condemn the person. I can therefore only indicate the state of criminal proceedings on the basis of the information provided by the Prosecutor's Office. Five of the six persons involved in the attack were made available to the Public Prosecutor's Office on 2 June. They were heard by the prosecution and released, indicating that they would be summoned to the correctional court, probably in September. The six persons involved are prosecuted for assault and battery with incapacity to work, as well as for rebellion and assault on two of them.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-16-54-commissie-ic194x.u3	Minister, only a judge can use this law. For the facts before us here, this law has not been mentioned by a judge, but simply the acts of assault and rebellion. Do you know if this law is sometimes applied, but is that another question?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-16-54-commissie-ic194x.u4	Ask me the question in writing. No doubt, but to tell you to what extent, I don't know.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-16-54-commissie-ic194x.u5	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-16-54-commissie-ic194x.u6	Minister, during the presentation of the reform of our judicial system, the Association of Magistrates' Unions (ASM) expressed many concerns, particularly with regard to children. The ASM is particularly concerned about the removal of the physical presence of prosecutors at certain hearings, especially in family matters. Because of this absence, the judge may ignore the protective aspects of the case or the criminal history of certain parties. At hearings, the Public Prosecutor's Office can take firm positions in this area, which are likely to change the dispute and remind the interests of the children. Minister, my question is quite simple. Do you think that the absence of prosecutors could weaken the defence of children at hearings in the family court?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-16-54-commissie-ic194x.u7	Minister, your Justice Plan raises many questions, which have been relayed by the press. I would like to focus on the reform of civil procedure, specifically its consequences in family law hearings. We read in the papers that "the children are in danger because of the Geens plan". The title is obviously scary. The ASM's complaints concern the physical absence of prosecutors in certain hearings under family law. The association is deduced from the consequences which can be summarized as follows: firstly, a rigidity and a slowing down of the exchange of information between judges and prosecutors; secondly, an incomplete knowledge of the cases, in particular as regards the possible criminal history of the parties to the case and, consequently, the impossibility of taking all necessary measures. You seem optimistic, the press saying that you recalled that the members of the prosecutor's office are a responsible body. Of course, we do not doubt that, as you say, they are aware of the ability to use their power of intervention opportunely. We hear it, we hope, but this remains of the order of expectation. However, as my colleague rightly pointed out, the lives of particularly weak parties are at stake, that of children. Minister, what is the purpose of the physical absence of prosecutors at hearings? Do you see more efficiency? If so, what is it? On the other hand, is it not a hindrance to the duties to be performed in order to render justice, which the prosecutors could see if they were present at the hearing? If the intervention of the prosecutor's office is not provided for in the text, how can we ensure that it will take place systematically when it proves necessary? Finally, does the prosecutor's office have sufficient resources, both in terms of personnel and equipment, to systematically use this power of intervention? Thank you in advance for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-16-54-commissie-ic194x.u8	Mr President, Minister, family law is a matter to which you are particularly committed. As lawyers, we followed the first steps of the Family and Youth Court. Today, we are waiting for the changes that will still be made, in the light of the plan that you are proposing and which, it seems, will impact the organization of the Family and Youth Court. Having said that, I was somewhat sorry to see the titles at the limit of the sensationalism of certain articles published in the press: "Children are in danger", "The plan would be a step backwards for the family and youth court". They illustrate, in any case, a certain sense of the actors and professionals in this sector. However, in view of this concern, some issues are legitimate. It is clear that judges must be able to work in a calm and effective manner. Moreover, it is certain that the presence or absence of prosecutors at certain hearings is an issue for professionals. Minister, I know that you have some importance in the consultation process. In doing so, have you ever had the opportunity to meet the first actors of the family court and the trade union association of magistrates on this subject? What problems remain within the framework of the plan to be implemented? What mechanisms are currently available to prosecutors and what changes will impact these mechanisms? Is it true that the presence of prosecutors will be eliminated at certain family hearings? If so, which ones? Have any means been implemented, since the establishment of the Family Court, to ensure the diversity of ages and gender within the judiciary and the prosecution service? Are there any disparities between the boroughs at this level? Do the services of your Ministry have any statistics on judgements concerning parental authority and accommodation of minor children in connection with this representation at the judicial level? Please be aware that, if necessary, I am fully prepared to ask you this last question in writing.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-16-54-commissie-ic194x.u9	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as regards the fear of Mrs Jadin, I would point out that the bill amending the law of civil procedure provides for modulation of the intervention of the Public Prosecutor's Office, particularly at the hearings of the family court and therefore also in cases involving minors. The bill does not amend the current rules that determine which disputes are necessarily communicable to the Public Prosecutor's Office, but is intended to allow the Public Prosecutor's Office to modulate its intervention in the proceedings by allowing it to decide on a case-by-case basis whether to intervene at the hearing, either by means of a written notice or by means of an oral opinion. The Public Prosecutor's Office therefore retains its duty to communicate all relevant information to the court in the most appropriate manner. The criteria which will enable the Public Prosecutor's Office to determine his or her attitude will be determined on the basis of the relevance of the information available to the Public Prosecutor's Office, which will enable him or her to assess the need to intervene in the course of the proceedings, in particular before the judge, and also in the light of the bitterness of the conflict between the parents. I am therefore convinced that the choice of the prosecutor's office will, if necessary, be determined by the interests of the minors concerned and thus by the protective aspects of the case. The tools to assess the state of the conflict and the risks inherent in each case currently exist. They will be used for this purpose. In addition, the magistrate of the seat shall retain the capacity to seek an opinion from the public prosecutor in each case at any time in the proceedings. To the attention of Mrs Özen, I would point out that the cases remain communicable as before. Article 138bis, paragraph 1, of the Draft Judicial Code clearly states that: "The family court shall decide after having communicated the case to the Public Prosecutor's Office with a view to a possible opinion or requisition on all applications relating to minors." Article 560/1 confirms that: "The Family Court and the Family Chambers of the Court of Appeal shall not rule on cases involving minors of age until they have communicated the case to the Public Prosecutor's Office. The task of the Public Prosecutor's Office is to communicate all relevant information to the court in the most appropriate manner." Such information may include the criminal history of some parties. It follows that only hearings in which cases are dealt with which neither the Public Prosecutor's Office nor the Court considers its opinion to be indispensable will be held in the absence of the Public Prosecutor's Office. In these circumstances, it is difficult to see how the absence of the Public Prosecutor's Office would put children at risk and that its presence, which, at present, in these same circumstances, would often be limited to referring to the wisdom of the court, would change much. Of course, this is even more relevant for the hearings of cases in which the Public Prosecutor's Office delivered its opinion in writing. The exchange of information between judges and prosecutors is likely to be more effective when the Public Prosecutor's Office is informed as soon as a procedure is initiated, as provided for in article 766 § 1 of the proposed Judicial Code. This site will allow the prosecution to organize itself, in the most appropriate way, to take information, to consult the records of the proceedings at the Registry and to decide what information it will submit to the court. With regard to Mr. Pivin's first question, article 872, paragraph 1, of the Judicial Code still allows the Family Court, in cases relating to claims concerning rights and obligations arising from family relations, to request the Public Prosecutor's Office to obtain information on matters which it indicates in a restrictive manner. On his second question, I must reply that, in accordance with the legislation, it is not possible for me to ensure a true policy of diversity. I can confirm that there are also men and women of all generations who have been appointed as judges in the Family and Youth Court. They therefore perform the functions. The term of office of a judge in the Family and Youth Court is a specific mandate, the appointment of which takes place following a procedure provided for in the Judicial Code. The judges in the Family and Youth Court shall be appointed by the King upon presentation of the competent general assembly among the candidates who have been the subject of a reasoned proposal by the head of the corps. They shall be appointed from among the judges who have served for at least three years as a judge of the Public Prosecutor's Office or as a judge of the Court of First Instance and who have already performed the functions specified in accordance with Article 80 (2). In addition, the judge must, in order to be able to serve as a judge in the Family and Youth Court, have undergone specialized training organized by the Judicial Training Institute. Similar training is available for prosecutors. There are 192 magistrates currently serving as judges in the Family and Youth Court. It is therefore likely that in the courts there are differences in the composition of the chambers dealing with family matters. The FPS Justice Department does not have statistics relating the judgements rendered to the gender or age of the judges of the seat or the prosecutor's office. Mr. Pivin, you asked a question I didn't find about the contacts I had... I can answer it, but if it doesn't matter anymore... I'm contacting, I'm consulting, I'm talking to everyone, Mr. Pivin.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-16-54-commissie-ic194x.u10	Minister, I take note of your answer and thank you for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-16-54-commissie-ic194x.u11	Minister, thank you for your answer. You reassure me by saying that the presence of prosecutors is important at the hearings and especially in the interests of the child and that, compared to the previous system, this will not change anything. We take note of your comments and remain vigilant about safeguarding this interest.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-16-54-commissie-ic194x.u12	Minister, thank you for the clarity of your answers to my questions. I note that, at present, there is no process to ensure that there is a diversity in the composition of the seat and the floor, but given the number, one can imagine that there is sufficient representativeness. Personally, I don't know if it's right to look absolutely for diversity. I do not know if any reflections have been made in your department on this matter. From a philosophical point of view, do we think it is better to go towards a systematization or is it better to let things be done on the basis of the presentations made by the candidates who meet the conditions or who do not?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-16-54-commissie-ic194x.u13	Mr President, Minister, I have already asked the Minister of the Interior this question and it is in the light of his answers that I am asking you today. The number of robberies in shops is high. There are 16 to 17,000 flights per year. It appears that only 3 to 4 per cent are reported. In other words, the figure I mention represents only 3 to 4 per cent of all flights. A remark from the Minister of the Interior justifies my intervention. I was talking to him about the prosecution of the perpetrators. Accelerated procedures are a good response to these kinds of phenomena that must not happen before our courts three or four years after the facts, which would make no sense. According to the Minister of the Interior, the Prosecutors' Offices in Hasselt and Antwerp have made it a priority for immediate transaction procedures. To his knowledge, this is not the case elsewhere in Belgium. Minister, what are the procedures and criteria in place for the activation of the expedited procedure in the case of commercial robberies? What are the criteria and priorities of all the prosecutors of the King of the country and how are they developed? What initiatives have you taken to ensure harmonization of procedures? Is the immediate transaction procedure applied only in the arrondissements of Antwerp and Hasselt or in other districts in the process of introducing this procedure or have they put it in place?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-16-54-commissie-ic194x.u14	Mr President, Mr Pivin, as I have already had the opportunity to put it before your committee, the time limit for me to answer an oral question does not always allow me to question the prosecutors general about the practices of each district and of each division of the Kingdom. But we know that the nature of the reaction to certain phenomena, such as theft in shops, is determined on the basis of various criteria, including: the amount of the damage; the author's possible challenges; the indications that the acts were committed in the context of a travelling band or not; the use of violence or forced entry; the use of specific procedures such as a bag lined with aluminium or a baby car; the extent to which the victim was compensated or recovered the loot; the possible criminal history of the perpetrator; whether he is a habitual offender; the suspicion of a financial, social or other problem; habituation; kleptomania; a fixed residence or not in the country and, finally, other elements specific to the case. On the basis of these criteria, the decision of the Public Prosecutor's Office ranges from the dismissal of the law to the investigation, in particular with a view to issuing an arrest warrant, including communal administrative sanctions, the criminal transaction proposed by the Public Prosecutor's Office and possibly through the police, criminal mediation, direct summons or accelerated procedure. I have already pointed out that these criteria vary from one prosecutor's office to another and even from division to division, as well as the holding or not of expedited hearings. Article 28quater of the Code of Criminal Investigation entrusts the King's prosecutor with the power to judge the advisability of prosecution, taking into account the guidelines of criminal policy. I have also pointed out that the failure to use this specific procedure does not imply a lack of rapid and effective response to, for example, commercial flights. A direct summons or an investigation under ordinary law may result in prosecution and judgement within a reasonable period of time. The government agreement states that efforts to establish specific chambers in each judicial district to apply the accelerated procedure in simple cases will be continued. Under article 76 of the Judicial Code, which already specifies that one or more chambers of the correctional court are assigned jurisdiction, inter alia, with respect to the procedures for the immediate appearance and the summons by record, I will ask the College of Attorneys General to report to me on the current practice in each district with regard to the accelerated procedure and the immediate criminal transaction and an opinion on the measures to be taken in this regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-16-54-commissie-ic194x.u15	Minister, I will allow myself to come back to the matter a little later, in the light of the report that you have obtained.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-16-54-commissie-ic194x.u16	Mr President, Mr Minister, should we recall that in November last year Belgium was condemned by the European Court of Human Rights on the basis of the fact that conditions of detention persist in our country. I have had the opportunity to remind you quite often too, not because of your current policy, but it is a situation that has been going on for years in Belgium. These conditions of detention have been declared inhuman and degrading. Improved conditions of detention were therefore recommended. With a prison overcrowding rate of over 20%, this cannot be achieved. This is the reason for the action introduced by avocats.be, a former French-speaking and German-speaking bar in Belgium, who wants Belgium to be condemned to adopt a comprehensive policy plan to approach prison overcrowding. While it is true that the alternative penalties provided for in your Justice Plan - to mention only this declaration of intent - may have a positive impact on the problem of prison overcrowding, it must be noted that the recommendations of the Court of Auditors remain a dead letter. These recommendations include a comprehensive plan to combat prison overcrowding. Minister, is a comprehensive plan to combat prison overcrowding on the agenda? If so, within what time frame could it be communicated? Can you already tell us more about its content? What are the reasons for its inexistence? Will the reform of the Penal Code take into account the absolute need to address the problem of overcrowding in prisons, particularly with regard to pre-trial detention and pre-trial and conditional release? If so, are other avenues considered?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-16-54-commissie-ic194x.u17	Ms Özen, on 15 June 2015, there were 11,254 inmates in prisons for 10,108 places. This gives an overpopulation rate of about 10% and therefore not 20%. I have indeed announced in my Justice Plan that prison overcrowding must be combated on the one hand by promoting alternative penalties, the reduction of the use of preventive detention and the flow out of internees towards the external circuit of medical-legal psychiatric care, and on the other hand by reviewing the cellular capacity. On this last point, I shall shortly submit my Master Plan 3 to the Council of Ministers, which deals with the issue of new constructions and renovations. In my vision of the execution of sentences in the future, I also take into account a rational outward flow of convicts, without losing sight of their social reintegration and respect for judicial decisions. That is what I have also developed in my Justice Plan. The intention is, therefore, to reduce prison overcrowding during this legislature.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-16-54-commissie-ic194x.u18	Thank you for your answer, Minister. I will of course not go back to what has already been said in my questions about prison overcrowding. We look forward to your Masterplan 3 in order to be able to work constructively on this problem which persists and gives a negative image of Belgium following the various convictions to which it is subjected.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-16-54-commissie-ic194x.u19	Mr President, Minister, the press reports that one out of six police zones has the power to postpone the legal margin of correction in the event of excessive speed. This is then increased from 6 km/h to 11 km/h. This initiative, both to alleviate the workload and the verbalization of speeding, involves in a context where the number of staff is far from being overcrowded, both for the police and the public prosecutor's office. In response to the announcement of your zero tolerance in the face of speeding, it appears that police areas could stop a verbalization quota, so that, as soon as it is reached, the radars would stop operating. There is, of course, a fear that informed motorists will resort to chance, in disregard of speed limits. Your "zero km/h margin" policy is probably too optimistic with regard to the means available to police forces and prosecutors. While every year the speed causes dozens of deaths on the roads, the quotas of minutes send a very bad signal. Mr Minister, is the "zero margin" tolerance in excess of speed manageable? Does the police have the necessary equipment and personnel to carry it out? Do you think that this will further increase the work of the prosecutorial offices that are already overburdened? Is it not appropriate to favour the correction granted by certain police zones rather than to decide on a quota to be respected? Is it not less dangerous for public safety to punish small offences than to allow people to do very high speed without prosecution, because the quota of the month is reached?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-16-54-commissie-ic194x.u20	Mr President, Mrs Özen, I should like first of all to refer to the answer I gave on 6 February to oral question No 2052 by Mrs Caroline Cassart-Mailleux and to topical question No 576 by Mr Christian Brotcorne in plenary session on 11 June. The Belgian Institute for Road Safety draws attention to the 2006 OECD report, according to which speed limits are a way of achieving appropriate speeds. These limitations must be credible depending on the type of road and its environmental characteristics. Governments have a responsibility to ensure this credibility. In this context, the OECD recommends that tolerance levels for exceeding the speed limit be kept as low as possible. This tolerance takes into account the possible lack of precision of the measuring apparatus and tachograph. Greater tolerance would give the driver a misleading signal and make the speed limitation system less reliable. Road users would have the impression that the limitations are not absolute but relative. As I have already explained, the directives do not impose quotas on record records on police areas that would prevent them from making such findings beyond these thresholds. However, they allow prosecutors who are experiencing difficulties in the full processing of these minutes, taking into account their material capacity and those of the police courts at their headquarters, to set in a balanced manner maximums beyond which such minutes will no longer be dealt with. These guidelines do not prohibit police areas from making findings beyond the established thresholds and therefore do not require them to switch off automatic radars. They are a signal of a desire to achieve a match between the policies of establishing and prosecuting prosecutors with the control objectives of the police services. Such a policy should make it possible no longer to resort to operational margins of tolerance and classification without the continuation of the record of finding. The use of a margin of tolerance would undoubtedly lead to an increase in the average speed once this tolerance is known and would exponentially increase the risk of injury compared to the increase in speed. In the same philosophy, it must be avoided at all costs that prosecutors must systematically classify offences for speeding offences without further action, as the incentive for immediate collection or settlement of the transaction decreases considerably when it becomes known that the prosecution may proceed with the classification without further action. In addition, it is clear that police and prosecutors may agree that temperaments or exceptions to the quota rule may be made with respect to findings of particularly high authorized speed exceedances or as a result of police interceptions. The quota formula is not an end in itself and must lead to the implementation of procedures such as payment order and cross-border enforcement.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-16-54-commissie-ic194x.u21	Minister, thank you. I will take a look at the answers you gave to my colleagues earlier. I have the impression that the system in place is likely to lead to legal uncertainty. Let's imagine you opt for the zero margin with a quota left at the choice of parquet floors. Some people will assume that the quota is reached at the end of the month and will roll as they see fit, at a much higher speed than a margin that would have been determined.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-16-54-commissie-ic194x.u22	Mr. Chair, Minister, we had the opportunity three weeks ago to discuss this problem of the decentralization of OECDFO and the FCCU. You then indicated in your reply that this deconcentration-decentralization would take place. At the same time, I had questioned the Minister of the Interior, who had confirmed the same thing. But there is, in addition to all the arguments that have already been mentioned, namely a certain inconsistency with regard to international investigations, etc., an element that is not insignificant to take into consideration: the opinion given on 22 October 2013 by the College of Attorneys General, to which the Act on the reorganization of the Federal Police was submitted. This project was subsequently blocked by the Minister of the Interior. The opinion of the College of Attorneys General made a very clear observation, which I will quote: "The College in any case advocates the maintenance and development at central level of conceptual support structures and specialised expertise in order to support and design strategic analyses, to ensure the training and support of specialized investigators and to exchange good practices so that investigations can be carried out successfully and within a reasonable time, in particular with regard to the fight against cybercrime and in particular the fight against economic and financial crime, including corruption. In any case, central services specifically dedicated to the fight against economic, social and financial crime must remain." In addition, the opinion issued in 2013 states that: "Specialised expert missions still to be carried out by central services should be included in the law, not in a royal order, in order to avoid any operational changes whenever a new minister comes into operation with other priorities." Mr Minister, this opinion, which dates back to a year and a half ago, is very eloquent. The College of Attorneys General called for inclusion in the law, precisely in order to prevent the missions of these institutions from being subjected to royal orders. Consequently, the royal judgment in draft contravenes the law. Are you aware of this opinion from the College of Attorneys General on October 22, 2013? Will you take that into account? A new opinion from the College of Attorneys General seems to be expected. Do you have more information? Do you have that opinion? If not, when is it expected? And if so, what is the opinion of the College of Attorneys General on this deconcentration of the central services of OECDFO and the FCCU? Will you take that into account?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-16-54-commissie-ic194x.u23	Mr. Chairman, Ms.Matz, I was not aware of the 2013 opinion of the College of Attorneys General that you mentioned in your question. This is an opinion delivered in the previous Parliament. Like you, however, I find it important to seek the College's opinion on the possible deconcentration of the operational investigative capability of OECDFO and the FCCU. I have therefore made such a request and I am waiting for this opinion in the coming weeks. Moreover, I have also sought the advice of the Federal Police Council on this matter. On the basis, among other things, of these opinions, the Minister of the Interior and I will be able to make the best decision.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-16-54-commissie-ic194x.u24	Minister, thank you. Although the opinion of the 2013 College of Attorneys General was given during another legislature, it dealt with exactly the same issue, namely the possible deconcentration of these bodies. I think that if the opinion of the prosecutors general is slow to come, it is because there is no consensus since some boroughs would inherit a complementary capacity and therefore necessarily see this deconcentration with a very good eye. It's quite human, the prosecutors concerned say they'll have additional investigators. There are therefore boroughs that will not inherit complementary capacities. Will there be a different justice or police activity per borough? Do not the districts of Charleroi, Liège or others also require operational capacity building, and not to the detriment of the central level? I will not fail to question you in the coming weeks because it is really a very important issue. Beyond the symbol, it would be a gross mistake to deconcentrate!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-16-54-commissie-ic194x.u25	As Mrs Lijnen was absent, her question fell.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-16-54-commissie-ic194x.u26	Mr. Chair, Minister Child Focus has just released its annual report for 2014. As a result, 299 cases for sexual exploitation or serious acts were opened in 2014. The Act of 10 April 2014 to protect minors from the solicitation of adults for the purpose of committing sexual offences, which criminalizes grooming (i.e. confidence-building for sexual abuse), brought Belgium into line with European legislation. The government agreement intends to pursue this fight against child pornography as a matter of priority, which I can only congratulate you and support, of course. However, this announcement creates expectations that we must meet. Child Focus thus awaits a policy that invests in the human and financial resources required for this struggle. This was the subject of the petition signed by more than 22,000 citizens, which was delivered to the Prime Minister last October. In its report, Child Focus also calls for an adequate legal framework to more effectively transmit citizen reports to the relevant police services in order to remove images of sexually abused children from the web. As a result, many of the so-called grooming folders were opened via the Child Focus Green Line. In the Justice Committee on 20 May, you confirmed the drafting of a bill transposing the European Directive 2011/93 on combating sexual abuse and sexual exploitation of children and child pornography. Minister, could you let me know when the bill transposing the directive will be introduced to Members of Parliament, knowing that the normal deadline for transposition came to an end on December 18, 2013? We're a little late. How do you intend to harmonize legislation on the age of the sexual majority? Shouldn't this harmonisation be achieved with the primary objective of protecting minors from sexual abuse? Are there any federal police or Computer Crime Unit units that systematically track cases transmitted by Child Focus? You're going to tell me that this is the responsibility of the Minister of the Interior. If so, what services exactly? How does Computer Crime Unit address images/videos of sexually abused children on the Internet? When and how, in order to be precise, do these contents need to be removed?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-16-54-commissie-ic194x.u27	Mr Maingain, the fight against sexual abuse of children and child pornography is an important priority for justice in the government agreement. It is also the subject of Directive 2011/92 of the European Parliament of the Council of 13 December 2011. In the very short term, I will submit to the Council of Ministers and Parliament a bill on this subject, by which we will make the necessary changes to our penal provisions, in order to comply with these directives. The texts are already ready for discussion within the government. With regard to Child Focus's communications, the files received from Child Focus, whether from its civilian contact point on child pornography or from its e-safety helpline, are transmitted to the child pornography unit of the Central Directorate for Organized Crime, in which the former Directorate for Crimes against Persons has been integrated. This unit monitors these communications and consists of three full-time collaborators. In the past, there was a backlog in the processing of communications. In 2014, for the child focus civilian stopchildporno.be contact point alone, 1,432 communications were received, the vast majority of which did not, however, involve child pornography of Belgian origin. For this reason, the team was reinforced with the federal police. The problem with the communication of websites containing child pornography is that the communications themselves generally do not make it possible to determine, at first glance, whether there are actual indications of serious criminal offences. This makes it difficult to process quickly and causes an extra workload. However, I do not have the data on average processing times. In order to speed up the processing of these files, Child Focus also offered to screen the reported cases himself to verify whether it was really child pornography and, if so, to determine the origin of the images. This would prevent all communications from being transmitted to the police without prior analysis. This practice, with the intervention of an NGO, exists in most other countries, but is not yet possible in ours if the current legal framework is strictly applied. A working group led by the Criminal Police Service of the FPS Justice dealt with Child Focus's proposals and on the basis of the report of this working group, a formal opinion will be sought from the College of Attorneys General on proposals and issues. A reform of the data linking procedure (Article 39bis of the Code of Criminal Investigation) which is currently used to obtain the removal of websites with illegal content (the notice and take down process) is also under consideration in the cybercrime working group of the College of Attorneys General.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-16-54-commissie-ic194x.u28	Minister, I thank you for this very comprehensive response, which gives a very interesting direction on the development of this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-16-54-commissie-ic194x.u29	Mr President, Minister, I am aware of the concern also shared by your Government about the rise of anti-Semitism, of which I will not recall recent developments. As pointed out by the Inter-Federal Centre for Equal Opportunities, 2014 saw a marked increase in reports of anti-Semitism and/or negationism recorded in the Centre, i.e. 130 incidents, compared with 85 incidents reported in the previous year. These figures are certainly less than the magnitude of the phenomenon since 76% of victims do not dare to file a complaint, according to a study published on a site run by an association that specifically follows this subject. In the written text of my question, I repeated recent facts often observed by the Belgian League against Anti-Semitism (LBCA). In May 2015, a family received a letter calling them "Jewish dirty", accompanied by a swastika. Since then, the family has been considering leaving Belgium to live in another state. On 29 May, a Molenbeek peacekeeper posted violent anti-Semitic comments on Facebook. He was laid off by the communal authority. We will not recall the tragedies we recently commemorated, including the attack at the Jewish Museum in May 2014. I recently met with the representatives of the LBCA, which you yourself received on 27 May, if I am well informed. At least that's what they told me. During your meeting with them, they expressed their concerns about the resurgence of anti-Semitism. They discussed with you the implementation of a zero-tolerance policy that the Prime Minister announced and confirmed in the plenary of the House on 29 January. Many victims of anti-Semitic acts are known to have difficulty filing complaints and complaints. In addition, if they are not accompanied by a lawyer or a member of the LBCA, police services sometimes remain too passive in how they deal with complaints received. In the recent past, complaints have been closed or insufficient response has been given to victims, such as the use of mediation. I'm telling you a recent fact. A café in Saint-Nicolas allowed access to dogs but not to Jews, mentioned as such on the shop window of the establishment. This is outrageous and unacceptable. However, justice has simply resorted to the mediation procedure, which may seem to the victims, quite rightly, to me, to be somewhat unsatisfactory. As a result, Minister, what follow-up do you intend to make at the May 27 meeting with representatives of the LBCA? Will a national action plan against anti-Semitism soon be put in place to provide a structural response to the phenomenon, as has been the case recently in France? Indeed, your government agreement affirms that the fight against all forms of racism is a priority. It is likely that this will must now be translated into concrete measures through a national plan. Will the joint circular of the Ministry of Justice, the Minister of the Interior and the College of Attorneys General on the research and prosecution policy on discrimination and hate crimes of 13 June 2013 be adapted to make police and prosecutors aware of the new forms of anti-Semitism? Should we not include in this circular an explicit reference to contemporary anti-Semitism, which sometimes takes the form of anti-Zionism, as proposed by the European Agency for Fundamental Rights in 2005? Should the circular that allows the prosecutor to respond to offences of incitement to anti-Semitic hatred through mediations, transactions and other "admones-stations in cabinet" not be adapted to the zero tolerance policy? What measures will be taken to ensure that the circular is implemented effectively in all prosecutors, including by a reference magistrate, and at all levels? While victims are actually contacted by the victim service, deficiencies are sometimes found – it is often local in nature.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-16-54-commissie-ic194x.u30	Mr President, dear colleague, Joint Circular 13/2013 of the Minister of Justice, the Minister of the Interior and the College of Attorneys General near the Courts of Appeal concerns research and prosecution policy on discrimination and hate crimes. Following the meeting on 27 May, to which you referred, I requested, at the last meeting of the College of Attorneys General, that I chaired, special attention be given, as planned, to the appointment and training of the reference magistrates, and that, where appropriate, the particular cases which were notified to me on 27 May be reviewed if a ranking had not been carried out. In the meantime, work has also begun to improve the identification and registration of acts of discrimination and hate crimes. The Interfederal Centre for Equal Opportunities has informed my office of its wish to organize a seminar on this subject towards the end of 2015 and proposes an evaluation of the circular in 2016. Please also note that together with the Secretary of State for Equal Opportunities, I will submit a draft royal decree setting out the composition of the committee of experts for the evaluation of anti-discrimination laws of 10 May 2007. The dossier is currently being prepared for the Council of Ministers. In consultation with the Minister of the Interior, I will also analyse the possibility of reactivating the informal mechanism known as the Anti-Semitism Watch Cell. The Inter-federal Centre for Equal Opportunities, which provided the secretariat, would send the relevant information to my office, including the last meeting report of that unit in order to complete our dossier and facilitate a position on the mandate, composition and functioning.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-16-54-commissie-ic194x.u31	Minister, thank you for your response, which announces some interesting progress. I hear that there will be an evaluation of the circular in 2016, following a conference of the Interfederal Centre. Perhaps I will suggest that Parliament be involved in this colloquium and in this evaluation of the circular and therefore of the laws, since the circulars are the application of the laws, so that we can participate in the joint reflection and see if there is any need to strengthen the legislative machinery at the same time.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-16-54-commissie-ic194x.u32	Minister, it is quite paradoxical to hear that our pro deo lawyers practising for the benefit of the most deprived litigants have not yet received legal aid allowances for the activities carried out in 2014. This is all the more shocking when we know that among them there are many young trainees practicing for some on the basis of a scale barely raising them beyond the poverty line. Minister, have lawyers been informed of the causes of the delay in payment of their legal aid allowances? When will these allowances actually be paid? Is the establishment of a payment schedule with periodic payments, for example, envisaged? More broadly, is the establishment of a system that would avoid the unacceptable situation that I have briefly described envisaged?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-16-54-commissie-ic194x.u33	Mrs Özen, on Friday, 5 June, the payment was made by the Centralising Accountant from the State account. As a result, the bar associations had to collect the amounts in question into their accounts at the beginning of the following week. This amounts to almost €72 million for second-line legal aid, pro deo fees for legal aid lawyers and about €5 million for the operation of the offices responsible for the organisation of legal aid. The administration is in direct contact with the bars in a telephone and written manner, by mail and by e-mail. As a result, the administration continuously informs bar associations about the progress of the payment of amounts file. As part of the preparation of the full integration of the Justice FPS into FEDCOM, the current administrative and control processes for the processing of grants, such as the payment of pro deo fees, are examined in depth. Improvement points and optimisation measures are taken into account in order to better manage and monitor processes in the future so that the processing of these files can be monitored more rigorously. Periodic payments cannot be considered on the understanding that the value of the point is calculated by the bars concerned on an annual basis.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-16-54-commissie-ic194x.u34	Thank you, Minister. If I understand correctly, the payments will be made this week. So my question was almost overstated. You also know that this is almost a custom in this area and that pro deo lawyers are always paid late. It's systematic. Like you, I practiced three years of internship and even after, as a pro deo, we never get paid on time and we don't know for what amount since it's a closed envelope. We really need to think about putting a system in place so that these lawyers can be paid in time and time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-16-54-commissie-ic194x.u35	Mr President, Minister, your plan is for the Minister of Justice to be able to issue binding directives on the advice of the Public Prosecutor's Office. The Association of Magistrates' Union stated that it intended to bring an action for annulment before the Constitutional Court if that jurisdiction was acquired after a vote. Minister, isn't this authorization a blatant interference by the executive in the judiciary? Is this competence not incompatible with the independence enjoyed by judges?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-16-54-commissie-ic194x.u36	Mr President, Mrs Özen, there is obviously confusion. That is why I would like to quote a relevant passage in the explanatory memorandum on the amendment of section 764 of the Judicial Code in order to ensure consistency in practice and to ensure the issuance of notices in cases where they are essential or at least useful: "The Minister of Justice is empowered to adopt binding directives for the issuance of notices in cases that are communicable under the law." Bringing this passage into line with the draft legal provision, there is no doubt that departmental directives can only relate to the categories of cases on which notice will be given. This will unify and streamline the policy of the Public Prosecutor's Office, which decides when an opinion is considered appropriate. In this way, the concern for a uniform advice practice can be reconciled smoothly with the need to be cost-efficient with the scarce resources available. Clearly, these directives will not and will not concern the content of any opinions and therefore not more so the content(s) of the judgments to be delivered. Nor will these directives prevent the prosecution from giving an opinion. These guidelines are not addressed to the judge but to the Public Prosecutor's Office. They relate to the exercise of the prosecutor's discretion, in particular whether or not to issue an opinion, and are therefore irrelevant to the content of the opinion, let alone to the jurisprudence. These guidelines are to be compared with those of criminal policy mentioned in article 143quater of the Judicial Code which also fall within the administrative competence of the Minister of Justice, as confirmed in article 151, paragraph 1, paragraph 1, second sentence of the Constitution. The Minister shall, in this case, exercise the competence of the highest authority of the Public Prosecutor's Office, in accordance with the provision of the Judicial Code on Internal Control in its articles 399, second paragraph, and 400. There can therefore be no question of a violation of the independence of the judge, as recognized in article 151 of the Constitution, article 6 of the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms and article 14 of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-16-54-commissie-ic194x.u37	Minister, thank you for your answer, which I find very reassuring. You know that this is a very important issue, in which respect for the separation of powers and the principle of the independence of judges are paramount with regard to the rule of law.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-16-54-commissie-ic194x.u38	Mr President, Mr Minister, the Association of Trade Union Judges considers that your reform of the civil appeal procedure is incomplete, in that it does not provide for the strengthening of the role of the magistrate of first instance. On the contrary, collegiality is abandoned. Minister, are you not convinced that collegiality is positively correlated with the quality of decisions made? If this is not the case in your opinion, could you tell us what drives your conviction, whereas after being abandoned in 1985, collegiality was reintroduced in 1992? If collegiality were effectively and definitively abandoned, would it be possible for the parties to request a three-judge chamber? If so, on what criteria could such a request be granted? Finally, in the same vein, could three-judge chambers persist? If so, on what basis and in what cases?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-16-54-commissie-ic194x.u39	Madam Chair, it is time for the government to introduce this bill. We will have a lot of work to explain to you everything it contains and what, according to others, is there. It is therefore better to clarify matters and make them transparent than to ask questions about what might be included in a bill. It's not your fault. It's okay, but it's repetitive. Mrs Özen, I fear that this is a misunderstanding. The draft law amending the law of civil procedure does not envisage any reform of the appeal procedure as such. Only measures are provided to discourage the abuse of appeal, including the removal of the principle of suspensive effect in civil matters, except in a number of binding procedures, and the removal of the immediate appeal to certain pre-rights decisions, more specifically interim judgements and investigative measures. Restricting the abuse of the appeal implies that it is indeed a matter of making the parties take their responsibilities as soon as possible, and therefore generally to strengthen the procedure at first instance. I quote the Justice Plan: "That is why measures will be taken to stimulate the qualitative and full treatment of a case at first instance and to reduce the level of appeal to its essence, that is, a second instance which is used only on an exceptional basis." (page 28).
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-16-54-commissie-ic194x.u40	The single judge is indeed generalised in all cases where collegial jurisprudence is not indispensable, as is the case with the criminal appeal or if the president of the court finds that the case is too controversial or delicate to be dealt with before a single judge. Of course, we understand that three chambers of one judge will not cut down three times as much work as a chamber of three judges, but everyone agrees that they can do more than what a collegiate chamber can do and that the result is in any case positive. As far as quality is concerned, who would dare to say that the countless judgements of justices of the peace, police courts, courts of first instance and courts of appeal, which are always assumed for the first two, usually for the last two, handed down by a single judge, constitute bad jurisprudence? Of course, collegial jurisprudence offers opportunities, at least when taken seriously. But the priority is to make reasonable judgements within a reasonable time. There's nothing we can do without in front of the delays. Justice delayed means justice denied. The Compendium of Good Practices for Time Management in Judicial Proceedings, published by the Council of Europe, is clear on this subject. The collegial structure of criminal bodies, as well as the systematic collegial organisation of first-degree courts, are considered by the European Court of Human Rights (ECHR) as grounds for non-compliance with the requirement of reasonable time. The ECHR is of the view that consideration should be given to the use of single judges rather than judicial colleges in order to increase the capacity of the courts. As I have already had the opportunity to explain, there will be cases in which the courts or courts will continue to serve on three ex officio judges. In other cases, the President may decide otherwise and assign an ex officio case to a three-judge chamber. It will decide at its discretion, taking into account, no doubt, the delicate, complex or controversial aspects of a case, on which it may be informed by the parties, provided that it does not realize that it does.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-16-54-commissie-ic194x.u41	Minister, I share your view. We look forward to your texts. I don't think I'm the only one asking myself questions. The Association of Magistrates' Union shares my questions, which are relayed in the press. We will be very attentive once the government has decided to move forward on these important Justice bills. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-16-54-commissie-ic194x.u42	Ms. Uyttersprot is absent, her question is withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-16-54-commissie-ic194x.u43	Mr President, Minister, last April you informed us of your willingness to transfer interns in need of long-term care to a specialized institution in the Netherlands, in the meantime necessary for the organisation of such a facility on Belgian territory. Mr. Van den Bleeken, currently interned at the Federal Centre for Legal Psychiatry in Ghent, had to "benefit" from this transfer instead of the euthanasia he had requested, which had been granted by the Brussels Court of Appeal and to which the doctors had finally not wanted to proceed. Mr. Van den Bleeken was interned in Ghent prior to his transfer which seemed to have to materialize soon. A recent letter from the Dutch Minister of Justice revealed that it was impossible to welcome Mr. Van den Bleeken in the centre. Minister, the situation of Mr. Is Van den Bleeken going to be sustainable? Will he remain in the psychiatric centre that currently houses him and initially on a temporary basis? Is this centre suitable for long-term sex offenders? The euthanasia of Mr. Could Van den Bleeken be considered again? Is the organisation of a psychiatric centre in Belgium for interns in need of long-term care still relevant? If so, how soon could this centre be established? Would this centre be an alternative to imprisonment for sex offenders found incurable or at high risk of recidivism?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-16-54-commissie-ic194x.u44	Mr President, dear colleague, as stated in my reply to Mrs Uyttersprot's parliamentary question of 29 April, my colleagues visited the FPC Veldzicht in Balkbrug in the Netherlands at the beginning of May. This visit took place in excellent circumstances. So far, I have not received an official letter from my Dutch colleague, Secretary of State Dijkhoff. But I can assure you, as was published in a press release by the Dutch Ministry of Justice, that discussions and talks with my Dutch colleague are continuing. As I described in my Justice Plan of 18 March, I am actively working towards the establishment of a long-stay structure, regardless of the specific case of Mr. Van den Bleeken. His establishment is the subject of discussions with the office of my colleague Mrs De Block, who has an important competence in terms of the presence and funding of healthcare staff in this area. I am not, as a minister, in any way involved in the decision whether or not to initiate a procedure of euthanasia, which is a matter of consultation between the doctor and the patient.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-16-54-commissie-ic194x.u45	Minister, thank you for your answer. As I understand it, the talks are still under way. The saga of Mr. Van den Bleeken is likely to last, as no solution has yet been found to his case. He may wish to reiterate his request for euthanasia because he has not yet been transferred to the Netherlands. To be continued...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-16-54-commissie-ic194x.u46	Mr President, Minister, this question deals with the possibility of intimidation and threat to prison staff. Open Vld has drafted a legislative proposal to protect the identity of police officers, in order to make them less likely to be victims of intimidation and threats. In the field, however, I am told that there is also a problem with prison staff, who sometimes fear reprisals from prisoners or their families and friends. For officials working in special departments, such as the High Security Division in Bruges, where there are rather the most serious cases, this potential threat is even more true. Under the Public Administration Act, it would be mandatory for prison staff to wear a badge with a photograph and the full name, making the identification immediately visible. Minister, what law obliges which officials to carry a badge with a photo and full name? Are there exceptions in this respect or is there a difference between the different services? What initiatives can be taken to address the problem I have just outlined?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-16-54-commissie-ic194x.u47	Mr President, Mrs Lahaye-Battheu, the mandatory carrying of a photo and name badge is included in the Ministerial circular No. 1728 of 19 April 2001, which states: "Every staff member has a coloured plastic badge, showing photo, name and function. The wearing of this badge is mandatory. The rule is indeed a practical application of the principle of openness of management and applies not only to the security staff, but also to all staff, regardless of where they work, including, for example, the management and psychosocial services. I understand the question, but the situation is not that simple. Unlike the police, which operate in the open society, the prison staff work in a closed environment, where direct human interactions are very important and constantly taking place. In the light of the dynamic security we must therefore avoid that these contacts become impersonal and that people become numbers or initials. Practice also shows that it is very difficult to maintain anonymity in such a closed environment. In addition, the basic law provides that all disciplinary reports and decisions reflect the identity of the persons concerned, detainees and staff. This seems to me to be a good rule in the context of public administration, especially in a field where fundamental rights are at stake. So I am not convinced that the problem, which I do not want to deny or minimize, would simply be solved by not making wearing the badge compulsory anymore.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-16-54-commissie-ic194x.u48	Thank you, Minister, for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-16-54-commissie-ic194x.u49	Minister, there is no specific regulation on the remuneration of curators of unattended estates. This is why different rates and regulations apply here and there. Certain courts draw up directives. These guidelines are sometimes subject to quite a few reactions from the curators themselves. I have the following questions about this, Minister. How is the compensation of curators of unmanaged estates arranged? Does the Royal Decree of 10 August 1998 apply? Is there, in your view, a lack of uniformity between the different courts? Do you consider a legislative initiative necessary?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-16-54-commissie-ic194x.u50	Mr President, Mrs Lahaye-Battheu, pursuant to Article 811 of the Civil Code, if, after the expiry of the time limits of the estate description and of the deliberations, no one applies to claim a estate, no heir is known whether the known heirs have rejected the estate, a curator on the unattended estate can be appointed. The appointment shall be made by the family court, in accordance with Article 1228 of the Code of Justice, at the request of one of the parties concerned or at the request of the prosecutor of the King. The curator manages the estate. The compensation of the curator of an unattended estate is not expressly provided for by law. The Royal Decree of 10 August 1998 laying down the rules and baremas determining the costs and remuneration of curators in the courts of commerce does not apply directly, although this inspires some courts to determine the remuneration of curators in the case of unmanaged estates. Given the short timeframe in which the question was asked, it is not possible to provide figures on these appointments. A brief analysis of current practices does indeed show that the remuneration of these curators is quite different from court to court, while a clear approach to the country should ensure legal equality and legal certainty. I have therefore instructed my administration to analyse this matter thoroughly and to prepare a legislative initiative.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-16-54-commissie-ic194x.u51	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I believe that there are more and more unattended estates because of the fragmentation of the families and because more and more family members reject a legacy. I speak from experience when I say that as curator of an unattended estate, one often has a lot of searching work. Moreover, the procedure is slow, but I will ask a question about it later. In terms of pay, there is a very different approach. I am therefore pleased that you are announcing an in-depth study, followed by a possible initiative, which I would like to thank.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-16-54-commissie-ic194x.u52	Questions No 4435 by Mrs Nawal Ben Hamou, No 4873 by Mrs Goedele Uyttersprot and No 4914 by Mrs Daphné Dumery are transformed into written questions. Question No 4970 by Mr Willy Demeyer is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-16-54-commissie-ic194x.u53	Mr President, Minister, you are certainly aware that the law of 30 July 2013 on data retention was completely annulled by the Constitutional Court on Thursday, 11 June 2015. In doing so, it followed in several respects the reasoning adopted by the Court of Justice of the European Union in April 2014 to annul the data resonant directive. The Constitutional Court held that the law exceeded the limits imposed by respect for the principle of proportionality with regard to the articles relating to respect for privacy and personal data. This cancellation necessarily has many consequences and therefore leads to a return to the regime that prevailed before the coming into force of the law of 30 July 2013. However, the former article 126 of the Law on Electronic Communications already authorized the King to impose a retention of data by telecom operators but without specifying the details. It is fundamental for all citizens, the judiciary and the telecommunications sector to know the current state of our law. Minister, should telecom operators delete or retain data collected under this Act? In the latter case, which ones? How long? Under what conditions? What are the consequences of this judgment for the judiciary and future investigations? Do you intend to adopt a new royal decree pursuant to former article 126 of the Law on Electronic Communications, since the Royal Decree of 19 September 2013 implementing article 126 of the Law of 13 June 2005 on Electronic Communications has lost its legal basis? I imagine that the royal decree is no longer legal either, since there is no longer a legal basis for justifying it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-16-54-commissie-ic194x.u54	Mrs Lalieux, the analysis of the Constitutional Court's judgment delivered last Thursday and its consequences is under way. The result is not a return to the legal framework, where there would no longer be any rules on this issue of retention of telecommunications data - which relate to data such as "who called who and when?" and not on the content of communications - and where operators and service providers would suddenly be obliged to delete such data. First of all, as you mentioned, we are going back to a version of the law that already contained the principles of mandatory retention of data for criminal and security purposes, while referring to a royal decree. The principle of data retention therefore remains legally applicable. However, it is important to recall that section 126 of the Telecommunications Act is not the only basis for keeping the data in question. Operators and service providers may also retain this data for their own billing and marketing purposes. If a data is retained for billing and marketing purposes, the judicial authority may require access to the data, exactly the same as if it requested access to the data, the retention of which is mandatory under the "data retention" legislation. The data in question therefore do not disappear overnight. This obviously does not mean that this situation is satisfactory. On the one hand, and this is the logic of data resonant legislation, the fight against crime and the current importance of means of communication are such that we cannot afford to make the fate of criminal investigations dependent on the billing and marketing strategies of private actors. On the other hand, it is clear that old and new Article 126 does not constitute an optimal legal framework. I am therefore in contact with the ministers in charge of telecommunications and the secretaries of state with privacy in their responsibilities. The various experts have already met and will meet again in the short term to complete the analysis and find solutions to clarify the situation quickly and find the best possible balance, knowing that the Constitutional Court has given very little explanation in its judgment. Yesterday, at the informal lunch of the European Council Justice, I stressed the need to seek a European-wide solution. Subsequently, in a public meeting, Luxembourg Minister Félix Braz repeated as the future President of the European Council Justice that he would put the item back on the agenda. My concerns were widely shared by my counterparts, as they are subject to the same judgment of the European Court of Justice and are just as perplexed as we are, given the consequences it could have.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-16-54-commissie-ic194x.u55	Minister, thank you. As you say, we need a new legal basis. The purpose of marketing and invoicing is not to keep data for two years, since all operators had fought against this retention of data on the grounds that it was going to cost them very much. Moreover, as the Constitutional Court points out, there must be some proportionality between the need for judicial investigations and the privacy of citizens. However, this balance was not guaranteed by Article 126 – which was confirmed by the European Court of Justice. Although it is essential to be able to conduct criminal investigations, Big Brother is not a solution for today's and tomorrow's societies. I therefore ask you to find this balance and not to strengthen the retention of data.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-16-54-commissie-ic194x.u56	Question No 5019 by Mrs Fonck is transformed into a written question. Questions Nos 5101, 5102, 5103 and 5104 by Mrs Uyttersprot are also transformed into written questions. Question No 5113 by Mr Frédéric and question No 5120 by Mr Laaouej are postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-16-54-commissie-ic194x.u57	Minister, I know that you have been questioned on topical issues, but this question adds a number of elements. For your information, I have been president of this Bruxellois Support Centre (BAC) for five years, which is competent to deal with the treatment conditions imposed in the event of parole or probation of sex offenders, which I have created as a result of the Sex Offender Act. I am well aware of the situation of this support centre and, above all, of the very correct work that it is doing with the sector in relation to this judicial mandate, since, as I recall, it is a legal obligation to receive and monitor these sex offenders. The CAB said that it had contacted you for an appointment so that it could explain its current situation, but this request has so far been unanswered. In any case when I was writing this question, it had remained unanswered on your part as well as on that of your firm. However, he wanted to ask you for an increase aimed at committing an additional full-time job or at the very least to obtain an increase to compensate for the indexation of wages and delays in the payment of subsidies. Instead, it has to deal with the government's economy, linear, blind, which reduces its operating appropriations by 20%. The Bruxellois Support Centre is all the more affected by the fact that it has no other missions, it does not receive any other grant, while the Flemish and Walloon centres are proportionately less affected by your savings, as they rely on other large structures in which they can find resources. You recently replied in plenary that the government had decided to make linear savings on optional allowances. The CAB points out, however, that the allowances it receives are by no means optional allowances. Indeed, if the amount and beneficiaries are variable, the performance of the mission is not so because it is imposed by law, by the FPS Justice. I therefore do not understand that they are considered optional allowances. You also mentioned that you were going to discuss with the federated entities the possibilities of supporting these centres. However, the support centres are under federal jurisdiction, with the federated entities only intervening in specialized centres of practice that work in collaboration with the centres in question. You know how many transfers of charges and responsibilities exist in the area of justice to federated entities. In the context of the sixth reform of the State, it is clear that there has been no transfer of powers to the federated entities in relation to the monitoring of sex offenders. So I don't understand why you think they're responsible. Today, the CAB fears that it will have to close its doors because the already reduced supervision no longer makes it possible to reduce staff. It is, however, 275 cases of sexual crime that will be put on hold. In other words, 275 people are directly involved. You know the importance of the work done to combat sexual abuse recidivism and the importance of accompanying these people. You say to make the fight against recidivism a priority while boycotting the work of this service, which nevertheless carries out decisive actions to combat the recidivism of sex offenders. Minister, have you now, and finally, responded to the CAB's appointment request? If not, when do you finally expect to receive it? But maybe you're waiting for the latter's doors to be closed. What call do you intend to make to the federated entities? Have you ever contacted them about this? I was aware of the reaction of the minister in charge who indicated that the matter was not within the jurisdiction of the federal entities, but rather the federal government. How do you intend to alleviate the difficulties of the CAB compared to the other support centres? How can you explain, given the government agreement, that you have not made the fight against sexual abuse and recidivism a priority in the budget adjustment that is supposed to be less blind than the original budget? I recall that the House set up a special Sexual Abuse Commission, which I chaired. She made unanimous recommendations to the government for better supervision, better follow-up of sex offenders on parole or probation. Your position therefore also runs counter to the recommendations unanimously adopted by this Parliament and to the priorities of criminal policy. Is it your wish to see the CAB disappear? If not, how do you intend to ensure that the CAB can carry out its tasks under the best conditions in the future? How do you intend to combat sexual abuse recidivism under these conditions? If, as he anticipates, the CAB is called to close its doors, what are you going to do with the 275 files?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-16-54-commissie-ic194x.u58	Mr President, Mrs Lalieux, I would like you to know that I am very interested in the fate of the Brussels Support Centre. It is true that I have already answered, as you pointed out, questions from Mrs Gerkens and Mr Maingain in plenary session. In the spirit of this answer, I would have hoped that you would have deduced that I would do everything in my power to help them. With regard to the interview to which you refer, the usual practice in my office is that all those who request access receive it as soon as possible. This will also be the case for the CAB. I don't like people saying I'm late. If that were the case, I apologize, but I doubt it because as a general rule, it is going quite fast. You know that the government has decided to save 20% on all optional allowances. This has therefore also happened for institutions and research centres for the treatment of sex offenders. This year, EUR 731,000 was voted in the original budget for the three institutions. I understand that this situation is difficult for these organisations that perform a very important work for the justice system and especially for the Brussels Support Centre, especially because of its structure of ASBL stand alone. I said it in plenary. The reduction of the subsidy of course does not in itself make any activity of the institution concerned impossible, but I am fully aware that an effort of 20% is very significant for the CAB. I am therefore prepared to examine all possible avenues for releasing an additional budget, if necessary in collaboration with my colleagues from the federated entities. But as stated in the Justice Plan, we are all called upon to deliver more efficient services with less resources, but I do want the CAB to continue to carry out its tasks. I remain, of course, very committed to ensuring the follow-up of sex offenders and, in summary, I therefore want the CAB to continue to carry out its tasks, but I must be given some time to study the various budget lines, taking into account, for example, the stand-alone nature of the centre. Meanwhile, the CAB, along with the other two recognized centres, will receive its funding under the Justice FPS voted budget for 2015. A royal decree is being finalized to do so. In conclusion, the fate of the CAB is close to my heart and I will do everything I can to help it to the extent of my limited means. From time to time, we know how to do small miracles.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-16-54-commissie-ic194x.u59	Minister, for my part, I do not believe in miracles, but I believe in political will and political action. If we have to wait for a miracle, I'm afraid the CAB is dead before the miracle happens. Maybe that's what makes our difference. I don't want to sue you for intent, but I understand you're interested in following up on sex offenders. However, when we are concerned about it, we are trying to find ways. It is not the same thing to reduce the means, even if they are disputed today, of an administration of 1,000 people than of an ASBL of 4 people. I think that the proportion of 20% on a large mass or a small mass obviously has completely different consequences. So I can hear your will, but settle it quickly because they're going to close their doors. As it has been recurring, I don't even throw the stone at you in relation to that. The royal decree is in the final stages. That means they haven't touched yet. It's the end of June. Today, they will not be able to live with what you give them. In addition, this structure obviously has to go to the banks to get money and pay interest, whereas it is already quite exsanguing and you intend to reduce its resources by 20%. Minister, you are prepared to imagine all the leads. There was a budgetary adjustment. Within this framework, I heard that the €200 million envelope, where everyone could go fishing, had not been completely affected. I hear we're going to increase the army's budgets considerably. In this case, in the context of the recidivism of sex offenders, which is a parliamentary priority and which this government differs, there is no quick solution. I think the CAB situation is catastrophic. I will come back before July 21 to see if you have met with the CAB and if you have found a real solution, and not return your responsibility to the federated entities. Minister, the federated entities have received a lot of follow-up under judicial mandates, as you know. Negotiations are currently under way. They should not yet be sent back files that are not provided for in the reform of the State. The federal government must also carry out its duties and functions and must fund the missions entrusted to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-16-54-commissie-ic194x.u60	I concede that I received a letter from the CAB on June 11. Yesterday, on the 15th, we proposed two dates. We'll do our best. I listened to you very well. As you yourself have been President of the CAB, which you have constituted, please convey to him this message of good will and political will, if you do not want to believe in miracles. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-16-54-commissie-ic194x.u61	Everyone has their own beliefs, Minister. Thank you for this additional information.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-16-54-commissie-ic194x.u62	Question No 5127 by Mr Friart is transformed into a written question. Question No 5130 by Mrs Thoron is postponed.
