ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic143x.u1	Madam President, Minister, with this sunny weather, I have a question about the Four Days of the Iron. From time to time, the rumor is that this successful annual hike is in danger. In 2009, I then questioned Minister of Defence, Mr De Crem. He assured me that the event would continue every year. Until now, it still is. However, there has been a change in its organisation, in the sense that the walks will now take place during the week and that the last day, which traditionally fell on a Saturday, will now fall on a Friday. The reason for this is that the cost of defence was too high on Saturday and that they want to save on it. Minister, I have three questions. Firstly, is there a difference in the cost of deploying Defense personnel on weekdays and on Saturdays? What was the extra cost for the deployment of staff on the closing Saturday? Secondly, what was the reaction of the participating municipalities? Was it a difficult discussion to change that? Thirdly, as Secretary of State for Defence, do you guarantee that the Iron's Four Days will in any case continue annually, albeit in the modified version?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic143x.u2	Madam President, Mrs Lahaye-Battheu, thank you for your questions. In 2014, an average of 257 soldiers per day or a total of 771 soldiers were deployed on three days for the benefit of the Four Days of the Iron. On the closing day of the Four Days of the Iron, so Saturday, earlier, 235 soldiers were deployed in 2014. These were a little less than average because there is no need for preparation in relation to circulation and so on. So that's just a practical matter. If we turn that financially, we notice that in 2014 the extra cost for weekend performances is not about the regular deployment of soldiers, but about weekend performances and the associated overtime or compensation time was EUR 54 500. During the consultation of the organising committee on 3 March last, the cities of course regretted the loss of Saturday but also understood the situation. With regard to your question about the annual return of the march of the Iron, this is now under discussion. I am, of course, open to all the proposals made by the co-organisers to further lighten the bill for Defence.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic143x.u3	Minister, your last sentence, which is open to proposals, sounds like an alarm bell. I think that this should also be borne in mind in the field and that it is important to consider keeping the event in any case, albeit in an even more slimming form.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic143x.u4	It is a fact that we will have to see how our budgets are going to be in the future and that we will have to look at how we can make that invoice as light as possible. Creative solutions can be found for this. I think it is absolutely a valuable event and I am willing to discuss with the organizers everything that is possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic143x.u5	Minister, every year the Navy organises the Navy Days in Zeebrugge during the first weekend of July. As a result of that event, every year a lot of spectators go to that bathing town. Last year, for example, the Navy was able to count on 25 000 visitors. That's how they get to know the Navy and Zeebrugge. Because of the savings at Defense, it was decided to introduce a sabbatical year this year. In 2015 there will be no edition, but in 2016 there will be a festive version following the 70th anniversary of the new Belgian Navy. There is no alternative event scheduled for this year. Minister, I asked a question earlier this year about events at the Ministry of Defence, including the Four Days of the Iron, mainly about events that fall over the weekend. You were able to tell me that 20 % would be saved at such events. I am surprised that events are completely deleted. Minister, wasn't it an option to organise Navy Days in one day, to save money in that way, while at the same time allowing the event to take place? When did that decision fall? I can imagine that such a great event was already in the preparatory phase. What budget will be allocated for the festive edition in 2016? Are the Navy Days organised annually after 2016? Is 2015 a one-time sabbatical year? If the event is still organised in the years after 2016, what budget will be foreseen from 2017 onwards? Can I get an overview of similar events of Defence planned this year, including the cost and any changes in program, cost and timing?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic143x.u6	Mr Top, you refer to my earlier questions and answers to them. It is true that 20 % is saved at events. You will probably be surprised that this is how we make choices. We cannot organize all the events, but on a scale that is 20 % smaller. I don't think that's a right choice. The problem is exactly that choices have never been made. Maybe that's weird for you? In any event, due to budgetary savings of 20% at the events, the decision to reduce the budget for major events was taken at the beginning of 2015. We also looked at the option of organising the Navy Days, not one or four hours, but one day. But it seemed difficult and not efficient to ask the most commonly present foreign ships to participate in a one-day event. By the way, a one-day or two-day event requires the same preparation; only the execution is slightly different. In mid-March it was decided to cancel the Navy Days for 2015. However, the Navy's command and the Communication Directorate still consider whether an alternative, an event light, could be presented. This is specifically thought of a possible participation in the Open Business Day. That thought trail will be further developed. A decision for the 2016 edition has not yet been taken, but given the 70th anniversary, as you mentioned earlier, the Navy Days is intended to take place in 2016. This decision will not be taken until the end of 2015 when there is a clear view of the budgetary conditions for 2016. For 2015 four major events were initially requested by the Defence Staff: the open door at the land component, the Navy Days and the marches of the Iron and the Memory. The open door at the land component shall be organised for one day. Both the march of the Iron and the Remembrance remains, but is organized during the working days, as I have just replied to Mrs Lahaye-Battheu and to an Ardennes MEP, whose name I am not aware of, at the previous committee meeting. In 2015 there is no open door at the medical service and there is no air show. They weren't planned either.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic143x.u7	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I'm surprised the Navy Days have been completely deleted. I hope to hear something when there's a light version. Of course that does not have the same resonance or response in terms of number of visitors as the Navy Days. However, I am concerned that, if one chooses later to cancel the event and insert a sabbatical year, the profits in terms of staffing and preparation will be lost to more expensive communication, because more investment will have to be made in order to re-publish the event, but up to there. Minister, you do not seem to blame us for making choices. I'm already in happy expectation of the plan. If I can believe the leaks in the press, there aren't many choices in your plan. But that's for next meetings. You are indeed making a lot of choices, much more than before, but you are moving them in the long term. I am in full expectation of what your plan will bring, and I will discuss it in detail later.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic143x.u8	Minister, in mid-February you visited the Koksijde Air Force Base to discuss the future plans for the military bases of the country and, of course, the military base of Koksijde. The future of the helicopter base was also discussed. In addition, you mentioned the conversion plans of the municipal board of Koksijde. The municipality wants to transform part of the base into a building area for housing and municipal buildings through the PPP system. The mayor of Koksijde, Marc Vanden Bussche, suggests that you advise him to continue working on the provincial spatial implementation plan which should serve as the basis for the implementation of the site. At the end of April, at the beginning of May, he said you would make the final decision. At a previous committee meeting, you said that a decision on the strategic plan that is normally expected by April will be postponed until after the summer. Mayor Vanden Bussche states that at the end of April, early May, you will make a final decision on the future of the air base in Koksijde. You will understand that I have a few questions about this. On what basis does the mayor of Koksijde base himself in order to be able to say to the press that the decision will be final at the end of April, beginning of May? Is that how you effectively agreed with him? Secondly, in April we can only expect the broad lines of your strategic plan. Will it be clear, as the mayor says, what the future of our barracks will be? How global can we then look at these plans in April? What decisions will be included?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic143x.u9	Thank you, Mr Top, for your questions. I do not have the habit of speaking on behalf of mayors and I will not begin today. I won't answer for what mayors tell me in the media either. I don't have any insight into their thinking either. In that sense, I must leave your question unanswered. As far as the rest of your question is concerned, since I joined as Minister of Defence, I have answered questions about the timing of the strategic plan at every committee meeting that dealt with questions. At every committee meeting, I also answered questions about the future of certain quarters of the Defense Department. I had a list made of it. On 19 November 2014, I asked question No. Question No 526 by Mr Crusnière on Bevekom 507 by Mr Pirlot on Melsbroek. On 7 January, I put to the vote Question No 5, by Mr De Gucht (H-I) on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats). Question No 572 by Mr Senesael on the military hospital, answered on 11 February 2015 Question No 838 by Mr Clarinval Question No 9, by Mr Gilkinet on Florennes: 986 of yours on Melsbroek, Question No 1125 by Mrs Grovonius on Florennes and Question No Question No 1219 by yourself on Sijsele, on 25 February 1267 by Mrs Fernandez Fernandez on Spa, Question No 16, by Mrs de Coster-Bauchau on Beauvechain, on 10 March 2457 by Mr Yüksel on Koksijde, Question No 24, by Mr Köhler (H-l-l-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L 1770 by Mr Crusnière on the military command of Walloon Brabant and another question by Mr Crusnière on the military pharmacy of Nivelles. On 18 March 2015, I asked question No. Question No 2521 by Mrs Jadin on Melsbroek 3131 by Mrs Jadin on Eupen. As far as the questions in plenary are concerned, on 26 February I put Question No 5, by Mr De Gucht (H-I) on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats) and on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, and on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the In addition, on 19 February 2014 I have written question No. Question No 103, by Mr Lachaert on Gavere (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I will deliver the list to the committee, Madam President. I suggest, Mr Top, that you look at the answers to those questions. You will certainly find the answers to your questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic143x.u10	Minister, as expected, I have not received any answers to my questions. I'm just finding that you're hiding behind the Strategic Plan. Firstly, either it is the mayor of Koksijde or it is yourself who has communicated wrongly at the meeting. However, the same language is spoken in that area. In my opinion, a West Fleming understands a Limburger, and vice versa. So either one of them has been communicating wrongly. Secondly, you always hide behind your answers on that list. However, we are now after the Easter holiday. In all these answers, you have always set as the date after the Easter holiday. Madam President, may I once again urge the Minister to keep his word? After all, Minister, we have been able to read a lot in the press about press leaks. However, it is time for your plan to be presented to the committee. In that case, perhaps the mayors will also be a little more reassured or just become more worried. Finally, I would like to point out that a municipality such as Koksijde or any municipality that has a barracks or an accommodation of Defence on its territory is deeply and rightly concerned. These municipalities also want to make plans for the future of their territory and of the barracks on their territory. I would therefore like to call for clear decisions and for choices to be made, as you yourself have pointed out, but which have not yet been made. I therefore urge you, on behalf of the municipalities in my own province, to make those choices and to make them clear.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic143x.u11	Madam President, Minister, on the Internet or on television there are occasional images of soldiers in conflict situations who clearly do things that are not acceptable and that violate civil rights. Recently, there were images of Iraqi soldiers, although it was not entirely clear whether they were Iraqi soldiers or IS fighters in military uniforms, who exceeded such acts. These are incidents that make it clear that we must also watch over the follow-up, by our own military, of ethical and deontological codes when they are on a foreign mission. Have there been any complaints over the past five years about the attitude of the Belgian military to the local population during foreign missions? If so, what were the complaints? Were sanctions imposed, if any? More generally, is the training for military specifically focused on dealing with other cultures and local customs? After all, a great deal of misery can arise from cultural misunderstandings.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic143x.u12	Madam President, Minister, operations abroad being one of the main missions of our military, it is important to look back on their preparation. The spirit of living together is understood in several ways. One of these concerns the best possible integration of our military in countries where a mission is organized. This explains the versatility of our military and the appreciation that the hosts generally have for the Belgian army. Our soldiers are very well regarded because they know the attitudes to be adopted in order to show respect in the different situations they face. Indeed, the rule of behaviour in the army is to sink into the middle. Minister, in a comprehensive way, what are the elements of military readiness for the missions they are required to undertake abroad? How does this preparation relate to the mission? Are these training courses on the environment and culture of the countries where the missions are carried out not affected or are they not likely to be affected by the budget cuts affecting your department?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic143x.u13	Madam President, for the record, I shall begin with the answer to Mrs Fernandez Fernandez's question, since it deals with the preparations for the actual operations. Fernandez Fernandez, each member on his or her way to an operation abroad is trained specifically for his or her future deployment. During this preparation called pre-deployment training, a cultural awareness information session is provided on living together, the culture of the country, customs and customs and is focused on the location of the future mission. Second, the member's knowledge is tested in scenarios and incidents that occur at the end of the training. Budget cuts have no impact on these courses at all. Mr Klaps, over the past five years no complaints have been reported about the attitude of Belgian military to the local population during foreign missions. Defence pays a great deal of attention to the proper functioning of the military. I complete what I have just said, in the sense that every military during basic training is specifically confronted with an aspect of ethical behaviour. The issue of code of conduct and values is one of the basic skills of every employee of the Defense Department. These skills are maintained on a regular basis and are tested annually. In addition, during each preparation for an operation, as has just been said, courses and briefings are given on cultural awareness, in accordance with the deployment zone. The military are being tested for their deployment. Maybe this is what's important. Detachment commanders shall be specifically sensitised during the preparatory briefings. The various relevant directives are made available to the commanders by means of a standard instruction on the conduct of business during operations.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic143x.u14	Minister, it is quite spectacular that there is no complaint or even an unjustified complaint. We can only be pleased with that. I am also pleased that this issue is being given a great deal of attention during training. It is indeed a very good initiative to do this on a permanent basis and to continue to conduct annual tests. I can only congratulate the people of DOD on that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic143x.u15	Madam Chair, Minister, thank you for your answer. I can only congratulate you on the work of respecting the other, which is being done by our military. As you said, there are no complaints. We know the quality of service offered by our military. They are often seen as facilitators. This training is not for nothing. If you want to be reassuring about this training, know that we will be attentive to its continuation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic143x.u16	Debates of the European Parliament 3337 by Mr Dirk Van der Maelen is converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic143x.u17	Mr Minister, during the debate in committee on the draft law of my group, amending the law of 30 July 1938 on the use of languages in the army, you have, alas, abstained from comment. This technical proposal would, however, make it possible to implement one of the recommendations of the Working Group on Language Balance. However, during the general discussion, one of my colleagues, a member of your political group, said that the Military Language Inspection Commission did exist and that it was working properly. I would therefore like to ask you, Minister, the following questions. The Law on the Use of Languages in the Army provides for a special commission to ensure a good balance between Dutch and French. In your opinion, does this not require implementation measures? What do you think is the importance of this committee with regard to the recommendations of the Working Group on Language Balance? Can you tell me the dates on which this committee has met since the submission of these recommendations? What is the pace of its meetings? When will the next committee take place? Finally, what is the content of the latest reports? When will these be presented to the House?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic143x.u18	Mr Pirlot, the Committee on Language Inspection in the Army is established by Article 31bis of the Law of 30 July 1938 concerning the use of languages in the army. This provision was inserted by the Act of 30 July 1955. You will understand that it is therefore well ahead of the recommendations of the working group on linguistic balance. In general, this commission is responsible for monitoring the implementation of the Act of 30 July 1938. More specifically, its mission is to examine complaints it receives regarding the application of the language law, to give an opinion in this regard and to make any comments and recommendations it considers useful. The Commission only meets when complaints have been filed. To date, no complaints have been received. As a result, the committee does not meet. The committee does not report to the House of Representatives. Every year, pursuant to section 32 of the Act of 30 July 1938, the Minister of Defence is responsible for tabling a report in Parliament on the application of the language law, which I will naturally do.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic143x.u19	Thank you, Minister, for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic143x.u20	Minister, an analysis of footage by the American channel ABC showed that Iraqi elite units on a large scale are violating human rights. In these images, prisoners or suspects, including children, were tortured or executed without trial. They are dangled from a height and sometimes fall. Militarymen also ride around with a severed head attached to their jeep. In many cases, the perpetrators in these videos wear uniforms from Iraqi elite units. These units are usually trained by the U.S. military. Experts agree that it would be authentic images, not propaganda of IS. Sources within the U.S. Army Iite ABC News know that the U.S. has already abandoned its support for certain units of the Iraqi army six months ago, after such abuses had come to the Licht. That is why I would like to have an answer to the following questions. The Iraqi military are in all likelihood committing human rights violations. How is human rights included in the assignment of our instructors? Is there sufficient force protection in the fight against IS? Are there any backup troops in there? Have any agreements been made on possible extraction of, for example, hostage instructors? Are our military already faced with such practices? Are they aware that Iraqi units are violating human rights?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic143x.u21	Madam President, Mr Top, I have dealt with these questions before. However, I am benevolent, so I will give you this answer. The Belgian instructors teach the Iraqis in various domains. All courses are taught in human rights and rules of engagement. The lessons focus, among other things, on the basic rules for the use of legitimate violence but also on the need for respect for the civilian population and prisoners of war. During the tactical exercises, the extent to which the Law of the Armed Conflicts is applied shall be checked, inter alia, by checking the way in which prisoners of war are treated during a role play. As far as force protection is concerned, I would like to reiterate that the trainers only live and work within a secure compound, which is guarded by Iraqi but also by American troops in two lines, as previously stated. Those specific forces do not have a training task, but only concern themselves with the force protection aspect. A security analysis is carried out daily and for each training by the coalition forces. Specific procedures have been developed for training Iraqi troops and emergency drills have been agreed with all coalition partners. Our military are currently training recruits who have not yet fought, so it is very unlikely that they have come into contact with Iraqis who would have committed human rights violations.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic143x.u22	Madam President, Minister, thank you for the answer. Firstly, questions have already been asked about force protection. I cannot, however, get the impression that it is very important that we continue to pay due attention to this issue and that it is being properly followed up. Secondly, so far I am satisfied with the answers to the question of training, namely that a great deal of attention is being paid to human rights, to the basis of legitimate violence and to contacts with citizens. I hope that this can continue along the same lines. Let us express the hope that our military will never be confronted with such matters. That would put our presence in that country in a completely different light. In any case, it is an intervention or a presence that is under discussion. However, facing such facts would only make the presence of our military more difficult. So let us hope that this never happens.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic143x.u23	Minister, at the request of the government, your cabinet has purchased 100 secure cell phones. These are smartphones equipped with special encryption software, which encrypts all data before leaving the device. Should spies be able to intercept this information, they can do little with this information as the message is described in code language. I would like to have an answer to the following questions. Have any cases of espionage or wiretap been reported? Who have these mobile phones been purchased for besides the ministers of this government? With what budget were these cell phones purchased? What is the total cost of this purchase? Who is the administrator of the software and thus knows the encryption encoding? Do other ministers' devices, such as tablets and laptops, also know such encryption software?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic143x.u24	Madam President, Minister, it was reported at the end of March that Belgium had acquired 100 highly secure smartphones for federal government ministers and their direct collaborators. These phones are equipped with special encryption software, allowing all data to be encrypted before being sent. These systems must thus prevent sensitive conversations from being intercepted or in any case making the thing much more difficult than it is with conventional GSMs that were used so far. Of course, I can only rejoice that a minimum and indispensable security of government communications is being put in place. Such types of GSM already exist in other countries, notably in France and the Netherlands. However, I would have liked to have some clarification about this purchase. Mr Minister, first of all, do you have a study on the risks that we have been able to incur so far by not having such secure smartphones? Have any specific cases of interception and listening to government communications via conventional GSM been identified and reported in the past and justified this purchase? Then, what is the level of protection actually offered by this new equipment and its encryption software? Is it an internal Defence design material or at least that we have been able to program according to codes that are exclusive to us? Or is it a direct acquisition from a foreign firm on which we would remain dependent in terms of technological mastery? If this is the case, which company is involved and should it not be feared that foreign states or companies will benefit from the possibility of intrusion – as was the case in other countries – and still be able to intercept communications from Belgian users? What guarantees do we have in this respect? Who exactly are the recipients of these hundred smartphones? By whom has this list been established and by what criteria? What is the cost of this equipment? Are the owners of these secure smartphones formally required to use them for all their professional communications? Indeed, if this is not the case, this purchase could lose its interest and perhaps even give a false sense of security. We have also seen some well-known examples abroad where prominent political figures have struggled to get rid of their personal GSM – we will remember the famous case of Barack Obama – or have continued to use their GSM for most of their contacts – I am also thinking of the French President. What about us? Are some of your colleagues reluctant to abandon their GSM to secure official equipment? Or do they plan to use both in parallel, trying to distinguish them according to the type of conversation? What are the instructions in this regard? Are these GSMs already in use?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic143x.u25	I thank the gentlemen for their questions. It's important to make it clear what the Defense Department has done. As far as the phones are concerned, it's not the firm that was involved. It was our services that made the purchase. I am sorry, but for security reasons, nothing will be communicated about this. If you have any additional questions, please contact the Prime Minister. That doesn't fall within my competence as Secretary of Defense. I would like to discuss the usefulness of encryption, Mr Dallemagne, but that is simply not within my competence. So I won't give you any answers either. We have done nothing but accompany the physical purchase. We have done the procedure of purchasing, that is what Defence has done; not even the cabinet, but the services of Defence. Moreover, it is a good idea for the future to have a number of things purchased by those best placed to do so. That's a logical choice. Unfortunately, I cannot communicate about safety requirements and such.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic143x.u26	Minister, what was published in the press was different. It seemed that the Defense had purchased the aircraft for a number of ministers, but also for a number of people from Defense itself. You say it's the execution of an assignment from the Prime Minister. I shall, of course, address my question to the Prime Minister. (...): (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic143x.u27	Or the government, of course. I understand your comments on communications for security reasons, regarding encryption. It should not be discussed in public here. I will address my questions to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic143x.u28	Madam President, my reply will be the same. I'll question the Prime Minister. I will also put a question to the Military Procurement Committee, where the meetings are held in camera, in connection with a purchase made by the Defence. It is important that Parliament be informed as a minimum of what has legitimized this purchase and cost. These are information that, in my opinion, should not be encrypted. I note that Defence will now serve as the procurement centre for cyber security equipment; that is interesting.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic143x.u29	Indeed, this is a good idea.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic143x.u30	This is a development that I note. This is a function dedicated to Defence. So far, that was not clear. We're still waiting for the creation of the cybersecurity centre. It's an option. It is a question of whether Defence acquires such a function permanently, for what type of hardware and user. Can this also be conceived for private users? For federated entities, what about it? A whole series of questions arise. For the rest, I'll question the Prime Minister. I repeat that Parliament has the right to a minimum of information. It is not about revealing information that could put our country at risk, but the budget and the level of security, for example, could be useful information to know about.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic143x.u31	Madam President, Minister, I have read the report on the 2nd National Action Plan "Women, Peace, Security, 2013-2016", on the implementation of UN Council Resolution 1325, specifically with regard to the Department of Defence. Overall, Belgium is contributing fully to gender mainstreaming awareness and is implementing concrete actions in areas as varied as basic and ongoing training or the dissemination and exchange of good practices with NATO and UN partners. As far as the Defence and its recruitment policies are concerned, the report explains that the Defence website presents, in its Recruitment section, a video of positive female testimonies on the involvement of women in the army. It's very positive, but is that enough? By way of comparison, the Department of the Interior has implemented specific measures when recruiting to police services: for example, there is a presence of women at recruitment fairs, a representation of women (and diversity in general) in flyers and brochures, etc. Are such approaches, i.e. the presence of women soldiers at fairs, their representation in brochures, etc., also rigorous in recruitment processes in the army? The report refers to a gender study conducted by DG Human Resource of Defence. He even mentioned that the recruitment procedure could be adapted to suit the study. Do you have any information about this? Does this study include such dimensions as women's career prospects or organizational arrangements for a better articulation between private and professional life - which also benefits men - as many factors that can increase women's involvement in the army?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic143x.u32	Ms Wilmès, the improvement of the Defence site, part of recruitment, in order to highlight even more the diversity and gender aspects is an ongoing concern. At recruitment fairs and in any communication, Defence presents diversity within it. A study on gender policy evaluation has indeed been initiated but has not yet been completed. This assessment is based on the Gender Self-Assessment Guide for the Police, Armed Forces and Justice Sector, produced by the Geneva Centre for Democratic Control of Armed Forces (DCAF). The results of the study can be used to take new initiatives in the field of diversity. In the meantime, Defence has already introduced many best practices to improve the gender balance, such as the strict application of equal opportunities for women and men, gender-neutral selection tests and initiatives to achieve a better balance between private and professional life. The current remote work project is the latest in this category.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic143x.u33	Minister, thank you for your answer. Indeed, UN Security Council Resolution 1325 was aimed at increasing the representation of women. I believe - and I am sure you agree - that it should be implemented and implemented in our army. It would be a real added value to the Defense. I will therefore follow this very specific aspect of our army's recruitment policy in the coming months and years.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic143x.u34	Madam Chair, Minister, I am sorry to come back again with questions that you may have answered in part. Your list must actually be updated, in any case in part. My question concerns the future of defence developments in the province of Liège. Perhaps other colleagues have already asked you about the facilities in Spa. In particular, I would like to focus on what is known as the Arsenal de Rocourt. Generally speaking, you will be able to answer about the future in the province of Liège. I don't know if, on your list earlier, there was the Amay Genius Battalion, the Elsenborn camp, the military command of St.Lawrence, the 12th and 13th line of Spa – I heard the latter mentioned. My question specifically concerns the Rocourt Equipment and Armaments Skills Centre, better known as Arsenal. How is it specific? Although Liégeoise, I didn't know, but I had the opportunity to make a visit. This competence centre is a maintenance centre for the repair of rolling stock and armament of the entire Defence. About 700 people work there, including high-tech, highly skilled trades. This allows the army to save a number of costs since functions are not outsourced. The equipment is repaired within this facility. That's very impressive! I don't know if you've ever had the opportunity to go to Rocourt, I invite you to do so if you wish. I always take this example: the army will receive a new plane and needed a reproduction to train to load and unload it. Instead of using the private sector to design a reproduction that could have cost between 1 and 8 million euros, we were told, this full-size model was made for 300 000 euros, allowing the material to be loaded in practice. I think that the significant savings that can be made are worth highlighting. Minister, will the linear savings decided upon be applied? Of the 700 people currently working on the site, approximately 400 would be added. What are your intentions with regard to Rocourt? Will you take into account this specificity which benefits the whole army, these professions with high potential, also for the Liège region, for the province of Liège? Indeed, the personnel employed, not always military personnel but also civilian personnel, contribute to maintaining employment in the region. Could you reassure me of your intentions regarding the Arsenal de Rocourt and, more generally, the other installations in the province of Liège?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic143x.u35	Minister, the Department of Defence is about to announce a major structural reform, as has been said on several occasions in this committee. This is necessary for its development in the years to come. While the contours of this reform are not yet known with certainty, it is possible that some of the existing military facilities and quarters may be forced to close their doors, either in the event of outright abolition or because of regroupings. This will be the case in particular in the territory of the City of Liège, which hosts several infrastructures. In parallel to this problem of maintaining military quarters, the City of Liège was also awaiting a decision by your colleague from the Interior, Mr Jambon, concerning the facilities of the Federal Police. The Minister visited the premises used by the investigators and the scientific laboratory and realized for himself the catastrophic nature of the working conditions in which members of the federal police have been operating for too many months. Following this visit, the Minister reaffirmed his willingness to see the completion of the master plan to bring together the various services and members of the federal police on the same site, referring to the construction of new buildings that would be operational within three years. Given that the government agreement makes it possible to envisage various practical collaborations with a view to the optimal use of federal assets and means, bearing in mind, on the one hand, the reform of the Department of Defence, which is subject to reflection, and, on the other hand, the desire of the Minister of the Interior to offer correct infrastructures to the Federal Police of Liège, would it not be appropriate to envisage cooperation between the Departments of Defence and the Interior in order to create positive synergies for their actors? Is the idea of bringing the federal police together with the Defence police on existing sites, such as Rocourt or St. Lawrence, feasible or under consideration?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic143x.u36	Minister, as has just been said, the province of Liège is currently an important location for our army. However, we are very concerned, and the two previous interventions confirm this to you, as regards the longer-term future of the Liège settlements, while the maintenance of certain military sites and their personnel is essential for our province and for the geographical distribution of National Defence. The subject of particular concern to me today is the fate reserved for the 4th Amay Genie Battalion. Indeed, we had heard of its extension. The Namur unit was scheduled to regroup with the 4th Engineers in 2015 to increase from more or less 600 to 1,000 volunteers in this barracks. Mobility support missions, counter-mobility and infrastructure would therefore be complemented by the School of Engineering. However, as the infrastructure work was clearly not completed in Amay, the date would be postponed. Minister, before I ask you a few questions, I must reassure you that I am listening carefully to your answers; I am even languishing to get them and to hear you present your strategic plan soon. Can you confirm the situation of the 4th Engineer Battalion? What's the calendar? What are the means used to enable this grouping? Have you received any new information about the future of the Spa barracks? As I have already asked, could you give us your opinion on the other barracks in the province of Liège and your vision for the future implementation of National Defence within that province? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic143x.u37	Colleagues, thank you all for your questions. Indeed, I realize that the people of a given region feel concerned about the initiatives that Defence will take. I can assure you that my goal is not to close. It's not a decision I like to make. Nevertheless, decisions will have to be taken. That is why I confirm to you that I have personally visited all the barracks that you have mentioned, in order to understand their situation. I still have to go to Tournai, after which I will have inspected all the settlements of more than 100 soldiers. It is also a question of understanding what the consequences of our decisions will be. That said, as I have already announced, I will propose to the government a long-term strategic vision. This will result in a strategic plan prior to the summer break as well as an implementation plan that will include the infrastructure component for the month of September. That's when I can give you more information. My goal is not to close barracks, but I am convinced that there is a need for a proper distribution of settlements throughout the country. Mr Foret, the idea you have launched will be studied, but it will take a little time. We are looking for ways to work with all departments. It's kind of the red line of the strategic plan. In this way, we may be able to save some barracks.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic143x.u38	Minister, I do not know if I should thank you for your answer. We remain on our hunger! You say that your goal is not to close barracks but that you will still have to consider it, even if you do not like it, which we are convinced of. We are therefore not reassured. It is clear that every parliamentarian defends his region. Without sub-localism, as a local agent, I find it healthy to bring a number of concerns to the federal parliament in a given region. I have heard Mr.Foret speak about the police; I have questioned Mr.Jambon on the same subject and that is not exactly what has been said. Maybe it'd be good if you could have a little better consultation with him. The mayor of Liège and I asked Mr Jambon about the deplorable conditions in which the Federal Police must work. He went there and said that he would quickly propose solutions. I'll stay on my hunger, if you'll allow me that expression. In any case, we will be vigilant. Territorial distribution is important. I was taking the case of Rocourt, who performs a cross-sectional function in the army. The expertise is currently located in Liège. Tomorrow, would it be removed and exported to the private sector? The costs would then, in my view, be much higher than what Rocourt reports to the army. We will wait patiently until September, as this is the deadline you have announced for infrastructure. My colleagues and I will come back to ask you about these various points.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic143x.u39	Minister, thank you for your answer. It is clear that it remains open, as the strategic plan will be presented in the coming months. I recall today your desire for a fair strategic distribution for Defence and the various regions of the country. I also note that synergies are at the heart of your thinking. I didn't doubt it, but it's always better to repeat it. I would like to reiterate this in view of the speeches and intentions that you have been given and that you have never expressed during the various interventions that I have been able to read. The territory as a whole deserves this reflection. Synergies will be optimal, I do not doubt for a moment, and will benefit the province of Liège and others. I also thank Mrs Matz for her non-response...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic143x.u40	Minister, you were talking about a list of parliamentarians who asked you questions. If we reminded you of the number of times we interviewed you and referred us to the strategic plan, the list would be much longer. You announced this plan for Easter, now it's for the summer holidays. We will remain optimistic. As far as Amay is concerned, I did not get an answer. The work on this site is already budgeted, if I understand correctly. I therefore regret that you have not answered me. Finally, I join my colleagues in telling you that we will remain attentive, especially as the concern of the workers is growing. Your lack of response will not calm the situation. We look forward to hearing your strategic plan soon.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic143x.u41	Madam President, Minister, in the face of the murderous madness and barbarism of the Islamic State Group in Iraq and Syria, the Kurdish peshmergas were, at first, one of the only (if not the only) serious resistance forces. They have saved many lives by stopping the advance of Daesh forces and welcoming hundreds of thousands of refugees in Kurdistan (Christians, Yazidis, Sunni Muslims, Shiites, Kurds, etc.). who wanted to escape death by fleeing as quickly as possible to safer territories. Since then, the Kurds have become one of the spearheads of the counter-offensive on the ground, offering in this way to the international coalition of successes on the ground and the reconquest of several cities and territories. However, despite their successes, the Kurds face many difficulties in their fights against Daesh, particularly in the face of heavy equipment that the Islamic State was able to recover stocks abandoned by the Iraqi army. The Kurds therefore logically demand better means to defend themselves and fight Daesh as well as more direct support from the coalition in the formation, training and ground support of their soldiers. Several countries, such as France and Germany, have partially responded to their requests by providing them with certain types of weapons, such as Milan anti-tank missiles (which allow peshmergas to repel Daesh's suicide bombers and their booby-trapped vehicles). But this remains insufficient and the Kurds want more supplies of weapons and defensive equipment, able to respond to Daesh's threats or at least provide them with better protection. What is your position in this regard? Belgium is an active member of the international coalition, and I welcome it. We participate in air operations as well as in the formation of Iraqi troops. However, the Belgian soldiers who must train these Iraqi soldiers were ultimately based in Baghdad and will therefore not assist the Kurdish peshmergas in the north of the country, contrary to some information that had circulated for a while. However, according to the head of mission of the Kurdistan regional government to the European Union, which the Committee on External Relations received on 24 March, Belgium would be one of the only European countries to have chosen to send its military trainers and advisers only to Baghdad and not at all to Kurdistan. In view of the fighting and the successes of the Kurds, why this decision, Minister? Shouldn't Belgium have expressed its support for the Peshmergas by sending them at least part of our team of trainers, as the Kurds would have wished, and still wish? Is it still possible to do so? Moreover, the Kurds are also seeking (often urgently) other types of support. As a matter of priority, they want medical assistance in order to be able to treat the injured peshmergas. In this case, Defence has a widely recognized expertise in the Medical Component. Again, do you intend to offer this requested assistance, whether by allowing the dispatch of a Belgian medical team on the spot or, on the contrary, by organizing a reception in Belgium to treat the Kurdish wounded, both military and civilian (such as the Yezidi women who managed to get out of Daesh hell where they were notably used as sexual slaves)? Finally, we can also help our Kurdish allies in mine clearance, another Belgian specialty. Does the government therefore intend to allow the sending of teams of deminers to the Kurds?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic143x.u42	I understand the background to your questioning and I sympathise with you. However, as far as the fight against Daesh is concerned, we do not have any plans today to cooperate with the international coalition. Nor have I ever received an explicit request for additional support for the Kurdish peshmerga. At the Foreign Operations Monitoring Committee on 10 March 2015, we discussed in depth the events in Iraq. In the National Defence Committee of the same day, we discussed the deployment of our troops to Iraq. We have also examined the advisability of providing support to the Peshmergas; the conclusion is the same at this level: there is no concrete demand, there has been no study or plans at this level. We must be aware that the actions taken against Daesh are within the framework of the international coalition. It is the international coalition that makes the requests.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic143x.u43	Minister, I cannot follow you on the fact that there has been no concrete request. This request was made to the Belgian Parliament by the Kurdistan representative. They told us here - and it is enough to go back to the minutes of this meeting - that they had sent a formal request to the Belgian Government. I believe that the least that can be done is to receive them, to process this request and to effectively verify whether this request, within the framework of the international coalition, has eventually received a response from other States or elsewhere. But really, I think it's time to consider that they have an important representation here in the European Union, in Belgium. They came to our Parliament a very concrete step a short time ago to say that they really needed this support, that this support was essential. We know all the work they do in the field. I think you take the military situation in Iraq and Syria very seriously. I believe that really, they are one of the essential assets to win this victory against the Islamic State. We know that they are having difficulties, we know that the resumption of Mosul will be an extremely important issue in the coming weeks. I think it is important to make sure that the fact that there would be no demand on the part of the coalition really corresponds to the situation on the ground, because that is not what I am hearing. I have been on the ground, I have heard what this representation says and I see very clearly the problems they are facing. They have totally disproportionate armaments in front of them and they are unable to respond to them. They called for the same kind of support we provide in Baghdad. They were asking for it. I believe that this request remains valid. They also called for at least medical assistance and clearance, if possible. I know that Belgium's tradition is not to provide weapons on the ground. I can agree. But I think that at least strategically, politically and militarily, we really need to reconsider this issue. This seems fundamental to me for the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic143x.u44	In the coalition, the Dutch and Germans work with the peshmergas. We are working in northern Iraq and also in Baghdad. Belgium does not have the means to decide unilaterally to enter there. If we go outside, there is a reason for the decision, and above all we do not go alone. Here, we did not receive a request from the coalition to go in support of the peshmergas. It is not a decision that I can make alone, as Belgian Minister of Defence.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic143x.u45	Have you reported this to the Iraqi Kurdistan representation in Belgium? It would be useful if there was at least one contact so that they could understand Belgium's attitude.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic143x.u46	There is no direct contact between my department and this representation. This is more about Foreign Affairs and Mr Reynders.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic143x.u47	They sent an official letter to your department, Foreign Affairs and the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic143x.u48	It's the Foreign Affairs department that has to deal with it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic143x.u49	I repeat my question, if you ever have an opportunity to discuss it with your colleagues.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic143x.u50	Minister, in the past we have already talked about cyber defense, which needs to be developed. This was also stated in our resolution which was adopted in Parliament before Easter holidays. In the actions you take, we note that you place cyber defense high on the agenda. We look forward to the result in the final version of your strategic note to know what the correct content will be. To be in favour of you and to follow up on questions that have already been asked in the past, I would like to refer to the questions that I have asked, in which we discussed the development of the SOC, the ADIV's Security Operation Center, which also demonstrates the importance of cyber defense. We read in the newspapers that you are also taking action in other areas of cyber defense, including in the field of technical training. For recruitments, Defence uses modern techniques to educate military personnel, and that seems to me to be a very good trend. At the beginning of August 2014, the media reported that Defense had found ten soldiers, so-called cyber commands, to strengthen the department through a computer game Capture The Flag. At the end of March, we read that you want to invest 600 000 euros in so-called Virtual Battle Space software, a kind of computer simulation that allows military training on virtual battlefields. I would like to stress once again that I think that this is a very good thing, because in this way military missions, among other things, can be tried in advance in a safe environment for the first time. Minister, I would like to ask you the following very specific questions. How much has DOD invested in virtual reality software in recent years, intended for recruitment and recruitment as well as training? Why was the programme Capture The Flag and Virtual Battle Space specifically chosen? Are the military found through Capture The Flag now working in cyber defense? What tasks do they perform? If no, why don't they work there? In the Netherlands, military hackers are trained to be able to react quickly in the event of a cyber attack by attacking enemy computers themselves. What about our legislation on this matter? Are there other countries or NATO countries taking similar actions? Will investment in Virtual Battle Space in the short, medium and long term mean savings for Defence? I am thinking primarily of savings in logistics. Which other countries also use such software for recruitment and training? Are there any additional investments planned for the future in virtual reality software?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic143x.u51	I recently read in the press your intention to equip the Belgian army with a new training software, namely the VBS3. The product is reserved for members and governments and allows for more virtual exercises, avoids breakage and therefore reduces costs. Of course, this is a complement, since the real terrain remains the best thing. The virtual but ultra-realistic battlefield would allow soldiers in training to interact both on the ground and in the air, under water or on water, and to adopt uniforms, vehicles, weapons used. It would make it possible to know the destructive impact of weapons and ammunition and to adapt to it. Finally, it would allow the barracks and its surroundings to be reconstructed in 3D in order to train before even having set foot in it. It is ideal for repeating routine procedures and conducting tactical warning simulations. The project has the merit of being there, especially since if a measure has gone wrong, the instructors have the opportunity to come back and explain to the soldiers what can be improved. That's what we call the after action review. If I understand you correctly, this project is to be implemented before the end of the legislature. That's good. The necessary budgets have yet to be found. We're talking 600,000 euros. At the moment, the army is making headlines for various reasons of economy, so I would like to know, Minister, your investment priorities and the added value that this project could bring. Can you confirm to me your intention to introduce this VBS3 software within the Belgian army as well as the cost of its license, which is 600,000 euros? Do you have a calendar? Patience is not one of my great virtues. I would like to know the timetable for the implementation of this project. Can you communicate it to me? At a time of savings within your department, how can such a project be implemented? Does this system already exist in other NATO member countries? Do you have any information or comments on this software? Is its implementation essential for the proper functioning of our army and how are things going in the NATO countries where it is eventually implemented? Will this investment have an impact on other sectors such as staff or employment?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic143x.u52	In recent years, no significant investments have been made in the domain of virtual reality software. The planned investment of EUR 600 000 is intended for the purchase of 180 licences. That is the number needed to allow larger formations to train simultaneously in realistic scenarios. As the staff responsible for the organisation and infrastructure are already ready, training can be organised the week after receipt of the licences. For the time being we have three licenses and some on sight: we have already trained our trainers and can proceed very quickly to the implementation of the system. It is clear that practicing via simulation is cheaper than practicing on the ground. As mentioned above, both types of exercises are complementary. The big advantage of course is that these exercises can be done without large movements, during working hours and so on. In addition, simulations offer added value by offering a number of realistic aspects that an exercise cannot or cannot simulate. Defence has specifically chosen Virtual Battle Space, and then its third system, because this is a good computer program that is used as a standard within NATO to simulate race and battle situations. So it's about motorized and out-of-the-box situations. In addition, there has been an excellent exchange of knowledge and experience between international partners. For training purposes, the following countries use VBS: Bulgaria, Canada, Denmark, Germany, Estonia, Finland, France, Greece, Italy, the Netherlands, Norway, Austria, Poland, Romania, Spain, the Czech Republic, the United Kingdom, the United States and Sweden. So we're pretty late in the story. This simulator has not only added value for basic military training, but also allows the training of complex scenarios. So not the manipulation of the devices, but the tactical decisions and such, with immediate repercussions and trial and error. The Capture the Flag exercise was organized because the Defense Department wanted to form an idea of the cyber potential that is present within Defense itself. The soldiers recruited by Capture the Flag are now in training at ADIV, the General Intelligence and Security Service, which you will visit next week. They work as expert monitoring and malware analysis. It has therefore delivered an effective result. According to the Act of 13 November 1998 on the regulation of intelligence and security services, ADIV is responsible for neutralising and identifying the perpetrators of a cyber attack on military computing and communications systems. As usual, there is no communication on numbers, persons and staff employed within ADIV.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic143x.u53	Mr Minister, I have noted that no significant investments have been made in recent years and that you are now working on the trend to make real use of them, because you see an advantage in this, also from a logistical point of view. I have tried to count, I have noted that there are about 20 countries already in the VBS system, and we too are getting into it now, which is a good thing. You talked about 180 licences and said that we could go operational a week after we received those licences. The question is, of course, when is that week? I hope that this can be the case quite quickly, but I do not know what timetable you are planning. In any case, I look forward to it and I support you in the further actions you want to take in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic143x.u54	Madam President, I thank the Minister for the completeness of his response. Minister, you didn't give me an agenda, but I think the investment was important. This is 180 licences, as my colleague has just said. It's not nothing. It's operational immediately. I think the sector really needed it. We are really lagging behind other NATO Member States. We therefore support this decision.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic143x.u55	Madam Chair, the Preparation Survey regarding the possible replacement of F-16 fighter-bombers refers, on page 4, to the concept of deterrence or deterrence in French. This concept is very closely linked to the military nuclear issue. In fact, military or academic specialists in security matters are used, when speaking of non-nuclear deterrence, to speak explicitly of "conventional dissuasion" or "conventional deterrence". This is not the case in this Preparation Survey. It is very surprising that such a precise and detailed technical document leaves room for ambiguity on a subject with serious diplomatic, political, budgetary and military consequences. We will return to that tomorrow in plenary when we talk about the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty. This is all the more disturbing since on March 31, the online information sites of the VRT and RTBF referred to an internal and confidential document to your department, which stated that "these F-16s who could fulfil both conventional and nuclear missions have enabled our country to play a leading role in NATO". In this document, the generals believe that the successor of the F-16 must also have this nuclear capability. Minister, the Preparation Survey uses the word deterrence to speak of a deterrent role for potential F-16 replacements. Is this a reference to nuclear and/or conventional deterrent capabilities? Has there been any discussion of the potential nuclear role of F-16 replacements for the F-16 replacement in the discussions that Defence representatives may have had with those responsible for the programs consulted? In fact, you answered me with a written question, very elegantly and very effectively as to the number of people you met. Was this point raised in these exchanges with the agencies in question? Are there any additional documents or annexes to the Survey dealing with the nuclear issue in the current proceedings that the House would not have had yet?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic143x.u56	Minister, statements and leaks in the press about your department and your future strategic plan are constantly increasing in recent days. We wonder who benefits from the crime. Would there be at the time of the budgetary shortage of rivalries between different elements shouting famine? After the very pro-F-35 speech given at the diplomatic days by the Secretary of State for Foreign Trade, we learned, via the VRT, that for the army headquarters "the successor of the F-16 must be able to carry nuclear charges". These wishes of the General Staff regarding the potential successor of the F-16 would thus be reflected in the plan for the future of the army generals. As Georges Clémenceau, the famous French politician, said, war is too serious to entrust to generals. Beyond the end, these wishes regarding the choice of the potential replacement of our F-16s still have political and diplomatic implications. I would therefore like to ask you the following questions. Are there bilateral or multilateral constraints at Belgian Defence level in order to maintain a Belgian hunting capacity capable of carrying nuclear charges? If so, what are these constraints? In the F-16 replacement file, what is the government's position on this specific capability? What are the consequences of the government's choice? Of the five models currently competing, which are compatible with this capability? Are Belgium and, more specifically, Defence participating in multilateral negotiations to free our territory from any potential nuclear weapons? Finally, how do you position yourself on the other aspects of this report, which includes the closure of one third of the Belgian barracks, the sharp reduction (60%) of the Royal Military School (ERM), the fusion of military music (about 100 jobs) and the withdrawal of the soldiers from the Royal Army Museum (MRA), that is 219 jobs?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic143x.u57	Madam President, Minister, on March 10, I was already asking you about the criteria for replacing the F-16 and the need for transparency on these criteria. In this way, I indicated that the Defence had to be clear vis-à-vis the five candidates, it seems, in the run. They say they're candidates. If the ability to carry Kleine Brogel's nuclear bombs is a sine qua non, that must be said. Indeed, if that were the case, according to my information, it would be tantamount to a considerable reduction in the list, since only American aircraft would be allowed by the United States to carry such American nuclear bombs, because it would be necessary to have ignition codes, drop codes, etc. In short, therefore, Belgium would find itself without really any choice other than an American plane, the F-35, which has the favor of the former Minister of Defence to wonder whether this choice has not already been made, or possibly the F-18. The call for nominations, if any, by the Defence would then be truly irrelevant and of pure form. It would be even worse than that. It would be a great deceit and the dice would be pricked. This would also mean that Belgium would thus prohibit any possibility of European purchase. Yet, of the 18 amendments that I tabled in the vote on the resolution on the future of defence – a wonderful resolution that must help you every day to guide the future of defence – the only one that was approved by the majority was precisely asking "to work for the strengthening of European industrial programmes of military equipment and to participate in it through our industries". We are clearly at the heart of the matter because it would be a matter of favouring a European fighter plane. In any case, in response to my question in committee on 10 March, you had mostly "botted in touch", that is to say, evacuated the question – which is an exercise that you are doing a lot – by indicating that it is the future strategic plan that will "define what is expected of a fighter plane". You may not have done so on purpose, but by answering that, it already implied that there would be the purchase of a fighter aircraft, thus confirming the government agreement. So we are no longer in the case of a purchase, but we still don't know what type of aircraft it will be. I ask you again today, however, because the information confirming my concerns about this "informal nuclear criterion" is becoming increasingly numerous and pressing. Indeed, according to several sources and according to several media, an internal note is circulating to the Defence indicating precisely the wish of the General Staff that future fighter aircraft may carry nuclear charges. This in itself is not surprising, since these loads exist and our planes are equipped to carry them. Minister, do you confirm, yes or no, the existence of this note? What exactly does she understand? Has the General Staff informed you of any specific request for the nuclear capacity of the successor of the F-16s? What is your own analysis of this issue? I do not repeat the question I have already asked you because you would refer me to your initial answer. Minister, the heart of my question is this: does this note exist and what is the nature of it? Indeed, according to the House's resolution, it is a matter of favouring European industrial purchases, which correspond to the development of a European military industry.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic143x.u58	Madam President, Minister, according to the note of the generals, the capacity of the current F-16 members has enabled us to play a leading role in NATO. For example, our country is working together with a select club of European countries on NATO's nuclear detachment strategy. According to the generals, it's important that our F-16's can drop nuclear bombs, because that way we can box above our weight, apparently a literal quote. The army leadership therefore believes that the successor of the F-16 should be able to do the same. If we want to continue to play the same role, our country must have enough fighter aircraft, at least according to that note. The army command speaks of about 40 jets. So far, I'm limited to my introduction. Now I'm going to ask my questions. Mr Minister, will you take into account the nuclear capacity of the fighter aircraft when replacing the F-16. What fighter aircraft that are eligible for the replacement of our current aircraft have such capacity? That question was asked by the previous speakers, was there any explicit request for nuclear capacity in the survey for the candidate suppliers? What is the government's position on the military summit's demand to maintain nuclear capacity? How can the position to preserve nuclear capacity be defended? What advantages, in addition to maintaining the prestige, do you think this brings?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic143x.u59	The word "terrence" is actually mentioned three times in the Preparation Survey, in particular in Chapter 2 of this document, which deals with the Belgian national security framework. The strategic objectives mentioned in this chapter are of a very general nature and make no reference to specific weapons systems. In this context, the word deterre simply refers to the main vocation of each army, which is to deter, without referring to a specific deterrent capability. There are no additional documents or annexes to the survey on nuclear capacity. Consequently, this issue has not yet been raised in various exchanges of information with those responsible for the programmes consulted. I would also like to make it clear that, especially for those who are not asking a question today, but think I need to put things in my mouth in the media, none of the five devices that are being considered today can carry nuclear weapons. None of the five. The criteria to be met by the F-16 replacement will be addressed as part of our plan. We will decide what we need in terms of air capacity. I think we will choose a dual use, i.e. fighter and bomber aircraft. Our strategic plan will not be effective until the government has given its consent. So I think in the coming weeks, we'll still be talking about it in the newspapers. In the coming weeks, because of leaks or because journalists think they have understood something they don't understand, there will still be front pages about what I have in my strategic plan. Let me repeat once again that a strategic vision of this government will only come about once the government has agreed to a strategic vision. Not before. Mr Dallemagne, I can confirm that this document exists. About 15 similar documents consist of my questions to the staff and their answers. I think it is normal, when working on a strategic plan, that there are study documents. The opposite would be surprising. As for the issues related to the report referred to, these are in fact proposals from a study report provided by the Defence Staff. There will be no strategic plan until the policy, i.e. the government, decides so.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic143x.u60	Mr Minister, before the reply, I note that you have not answered my second and third questions, namely: has the nuclear role been mentioned in the questions asked?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic143x.u61	I answered it. We didn't talk about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic143x.u62	All right. It is clear that this is a matter of vocabulary. The survey was written in English, and you and the army use the word deterrence. When you type deterrence on the internet, you come across a series of words that have nothing to do with deterrence as we hear it in French. In Dutch the word is ontrading. But that has nothing to do with it. Deterrence, that's not it. You come across maps of the United States with the location of the nuclear sites. Deterrence is used in military jargon as a nuclear deterrent, i.e. the use of atomic bombs. I heard your answer, which was clear. You use the word deterrence in a more general sense that covers conventional deterrence by non-nuclear weapons. You also mentioned a double use. You're talking about bomber fighters and no use of normal or nuclear bombs.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic143x.u63	Today, we must be able to do aerial hunting and bombardment.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic143x.u64	I can hear you. You had made it clear that it would be the specifications that would determine whether or not there would be a possible use of nuclear bombs by F-16 replacements. We will therefore be all the more attentive as there is clearly a vocabulary problem. To continue on the vocabulary, I will bounce back on Mr. Dallemagne's words. This one speaks of fighter aircraft; it is in fact bomber fighters, since it is a double use. They're planes hunting and bombing. That is what we are buying. Mr Dallemagne, bomber fighters, whether they are made in Europe or not, remain machines that are used to kill.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic143x.u65	That's a scoop!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic143x.u66	Yes. The fact that they are European does not make them more friendly.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic143x.u67	We're going to disperse flowers on the Islamic State.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic143x.u68	We could do otherwise anyway. As you can see, it's very effective.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic143x.u69	This stopped the progress of the Islamic State.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic143x.u70	Yes, absolutely. We don't have the same reading. The question of vocabulary shows that, here, these are words, but the consequences are very important for life and death, since they are bomber fighters. Attention should be paid to what will be done and what will be said in the future terms of reference.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic143x.u71	Madam President, I just wanted to point out that my group was very attached to any possible replacement of the F-16s and provided that there was budgetary, economic, strategic and long-term vision coherence, the need for economic benefits for our country. I am very pleased to have read in the press that Mr Ducarme, the MR group leader, had personally met with the five manufacturers and that they had all committed themselves to 100% economic benefits. I would be very curious to know the numerical basis on which Mr Ducarme is based. I don't think there are any, but this is another debate. That said, beyond polemic, for my group there is no fatality in accepting that the next potential generation of Belgian fighter aircraft has an atomic transport capability. I also welcome the initiative of parliamentarians in the Vlaams Parliament to ban the presence of American tactical nuclear weapons. I thought there were none on Belgian territory, I just found out. This proposal was co-signed by Members Groen, Open Vld, CD&V, sp.a. and N-VA. The Government's consistency with our Federal Assembly implies that it takes full account of this choice of socialist amendment, which will be adopted tomorrow in plenary session of the House on a text of resolution on the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT), calling for Belgium to be firmly included in the fight for nuclear disarmament within the framework of multilateral negotiations in which Belgium continues to participate actively in order to free its territory from any presence of nuclear weapons.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic143x.u72	Minister, thank you for your answer. First of all, I'd like you to give me a little clarification. You say that none of the five candidates will be pre-equipped to carry nuclear charges.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic143x.u73	I've already indicated it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic143x.u74	It is not because it is not pre-equipped that it cannot be equipped.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic143x.u75	It's the same for the five.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic143x.u76	Okay, but could the five be tomorrow?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic143x.u77	I don't know. The question has not been asked, as I have just told you in my answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic143x.u78	She was not approached with the candidates. On the other hand, you have received an internal note from your department asking, as you have confirmed, that this criterion be used. I was asking you about that note. You told me there were about 15 of them.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic143x.u79	I replied that the strategic plan would be of a political nature.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic143x.u80	All right, but so there was this request from your staff. You didn't tell the candidates. When I type the word on Wiktionary, the word deterrence has only one meaning: it is "nuclear dissuasion". There are no other meanings. We mustn't make it a mystery. None of this is surprising. We have nuclear weapons that can only be transported by bomber fighters who will have to be replaced by others. Simply, when we choose bomber fighters to replace them, it will be a good idea to choose whether or not we will continue to have nuclear bombs. If these aircraft do not have the capacity to carry them, these loads will no longer be of interest – and they will have to be dismantled. They don't have many at the moment. In any case, my information is very precise: the United States will never give the information to activate these bombs. So we must not turn around the pot: we are feet and fists linked with American technology for our future bomber fighters. Unless we tell our American allies that we can no longer use these tactical nuclear weapons. This is the only possible alternative. I know you can't answer that, but it's very obvious.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic143x.u81	I will not repeat the replies of the previous speakers, Minister. However, I would like to add my voice to Mr Dallemagne's reply and also to refer to what Mr Pirlot said. At the moment, most likely at this hour, a resolution is being voted on in the Flemish Parliament to get the nuclear weapons out of our country. If you ask me, there are a few words too many in that resolution, but at least an effort is being made to remove the nuclear weapons. In any case, it would be a good thing if we had the courage to discuss it at federal level. That was not the subject of my question, but I would like to point out that, above the weight of boxing or threating nuclear bombs, the ambitions of our group are not. Nuclear weapons are useless, expensive and dangerous weapons of mass destruction for us. History in Japan has shown that. Such weapons have no tactical or political value. We want it out of here, and we have already tabled a legislative proposal to that end. We cannot continue to defend the argument that we must act as a united NATO partner, so that a decision on the withdrawal of nuclear weapons can only be taken in the context of NATO. As a sovereign country, Belgium can make that decision itself and ask the US to withdraw those weapons here.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic143x.u82	Before going into the next point, I would like to ask the Minister what time he can stay. It was first announced that the Minister could stay until 4 p.m.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic143x.u83	Madam President, if you will allow me to interrupt the sitting for eight minutes, I can stay until 5:00 p.m.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic143x.u84	That's a good deal I agree with. We'll take an eight-minute break.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic143x.u85	Minister, in parallel with the war on the ground in Iraq and Syria against the so-called Islamic State that I prefer to call the Islamist Nazis, there is a cyberwar between the jihadists and the defenders of an Internet without terrorist propaganda, led by Anonymous. The Islamic State hacker division, in a social media message, announced that it had "hacked several military servers, databases and e-mail boxes, making it possible to successfully obtain personal information from US military personnel". Information on about 100 profiles of soldiers, in the form of small ID cards, was reportedly revealed with photos, names, rank and above all, addresses of soldiers of the Navy, the US Air Force or the US Army. Beyond the breach of privacy, this disclosure is accompanied by a call for murder. "Kill them in their own country, decapitate them in their homes, stab them when they walk in their streets, believing they are safe", threatens the message accompanying the profiles of soldiers. If the American army has not, for the time being, reacted to this supposed computer attack - my question is dated March 27th - it is nevertheless necessary to address the issue as these threats are in addition to those of terror to our streets, made by representatives of the Islamist Nazis after the attacks in Paris. We saw what happened with the Ethiopians a few days ago. Minister, what steps have you taken or intend to take to prevent such threats from coming to light in our country? Have you taken steps to secure the personal data of soldiers on mission to Iraq and Syria? Have you drawn up a list of advice and warnings, protocols to secure the data of soldiers on mission in theatres of external operations, but also of other soldiers of the Belgian army? What about the security of soldiers in faction in front of Belgian sensitive sites? Aren't they, too, potential targets, as we saw in Nice recently? These threats need a strong response to prevent a soldier from being killed on the street as happened to British soldier Lee Rigby, who was stabbed on 29 May 2013 in southeastern London. Thank you in advance, Minister, for your response and for the active follow-up to this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic143x.u86	Mr Flahaux, for security reasons, Defence does not disclose the security measures of its computer systems. Sensitive information is classified and processed on approved, secure and controlled networks. The use of social media is the subject of numerous recommendations to Defence personnel in the form of notes and a brochure distributed to all units and available on the Defence Intranet. These approaches are intended to raise awareness among staff of the dangers of the indiscriminate use of social media and describe basic precautionary rules. During the preparation prior to an operational deployment, the personnel concerned receive a reminder of the principles of social media prudence. These briefings are given by the military authorities and the Judicial Police Service in a military setting before and during the operation. This information is also provided in the form of written guidelines. Finally, depending on the sensitivity of the operation, additional measures are taken to make the identification of deployed personnel more difficult and, consequently, to reduce the risk of hacking their social media profiles. To preserve the anonymity of our personnel, among other things during operations on the national territory, the wearing of the nominette is prohibited. For other operations, such as the one underway against Daesh in Iraq, the list of personnel is classified.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic143x.u87	Minister, thank you for your answer. This not only proves that you are well aware of the situation but also that you have made arrangements. I certainly did not ask you to know what measures you have taken because the information from Parliament is open, so I would not like it to be used against us. We must also realize that acts of goodwill could turn against our military. I am thinking, for example, of some soldiers who, on their return, would be honored or celebrated in their commune or even decorated by the Belgian authorities. All this must be done under the guise of anonymity.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic143x.u88	Mr. Secretary, on March 31, deredaction.be posted a leaked plan online about the future of our defense. The plan "The Belgian Defence of the Future": horizon 30 January 2013 was written by the military summit on behalf of the Minister of Defence. The plan discusses two possible scenarios. In the first scenario, the 2015 budget is kept constant, representing a defence budget of €2.15 billion or 0.76 % of GDP. The second scenario assumes that the budget could increase to 1.36 % of GDP by 2030. Reference has already been made to various plans in previous questions, but I would like to have answers to the following questions. Is it true that this document was drawn up by the military summit at your request and within the framework of the strategic plan? How come this plan came out in the press? Are there any other scenarios or documents? Are you working on this document to prepare your strategic plan? I do not find any cost of outsourcing in the document, are these costs included in the strategic vision? The plan puts some clear choices first, such as outsourcing search and rescue. However, the choices are not fully worked out. When outsourcing search and rescue, the question soon follows who will pay the bill after a rescue operation. Are such choices taken into account in the strategic vision? Have any agreements been made on the interdepartmental commission? In scenario 1, it is assumed that Defence is entitled to 100 million euros of this commission annually. How does the military summit get a distribution of 32 % personnel costs, 39 % investments and 29 % operating costs? NATO states that the standard of 50/25/25 is the most desirable distribution. Finally, a remark rather than a question. May I point out that there is concern among the personnel of the Defense Department? They do not know whether their workplace will be closed soon, whether their function will be outsourced or whether they would be sent to the other side of the country. Hence my call for clarity as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic143x.u89	Mr Top, I refer to the list of... As part of the development of the strategic plan, I have, with my cabinet, requested several studies from the Defence Staff, including a whole range of options and scenarios that were analysed. The two scenario scenarios and the document you spoke of are scenario scenarios in a constant budget. A further 15 scenarios have been developed. It's normal for me, as Secretary of Defense, to work with my staff. I have already made it clear in committee five or six times that the strategic plan is an iterative process between my cabinet and the Defence Staff, in which we ask questions and answers, after which we are not entirely satisfied with the answer and ask additional questions, order punctual studies and have matters examined. That is how it should be, if we want to come up with a plan for such an organisation by 2030. Moreover, I have not yet received a single scenario such as the one described in the sp.a programme, in which a concrete implementation can be given to the army. In the development of the strategic plan, all costs of staffing, operation and investment are examined in detail, as well as the costs of outsourcing. It is clear, as has been said in the past, that outsourcing is certainly one of the paths to be pursued when it comes to a more employable army and activities that may be better done by externals than by the military world. But I suspect you'll have a question about that later, a very cool one for someone from the sector, by the way. We'll talk about that later. No agreement has been made on an interdepartmental commission for the future. The various steps in the development of the strategic plan were clearly explained to the unions and through direct communication, in the Flash Direct, to all people working in the Defense Department. I understand very well that people are asking questions about their personal situation in their own barracks and their future, but I also know that today people are aware that they have a minister who is at least trying to give them a new perspective. That is something other than the weakening to a budget of less than two billion.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic143x.u90	Thank you, but of course I have not yet received any answers to my clear questions about your strategic plan. I'd still like to comment on your strategic plan. There's only one army top to my knowledge anyway. There will therefore be only one proposal of strategic plan from the military summit, of course in consultation with you, through various questions back and forth, with different scenarios.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic143x.u91	Madam President, Mr Top, I absolutely do not feel the need to defend anything, but I can tell you that there have been many more proposals than just one of the military summits to me. It is true that one proposal was published in extenso and appeared on the website of the VRT. If you have nothing else to do but read intermediate documents, don't feel inhibited by my remarks. I made it clear to myself on the day that this was one of the documents that went over and over between my cabinet and defence, that there were before that, that there were after that and that there will be only one strategic plan, namely that which will have been approved by the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic143x.u92	Madam President, Minister, further to your answer, I remain left with the following remark. You say that there are several proposals coming from the top of the army, then I ask myself about the coherence of the army and the top of the army. After all, we can only have one Defence and one Defence staff and we must come up with proposals from them. If not, I doubt the coherence of those men and of the army top. That's what I'm saying. Otherwise we have to sit down with all these different people to consider all these different proposals. I would also like to give you the following answer. I am very pleased that you have given an overview of all the interplays to barracks and such. However, I would like to draw your attention to the answers you have given, and the text says quite literally that you would have your plan against Easter. I expect you, out of respect for this committee, Parliament and the people working in the Defence Department, to do this and submit it to the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic143x.u93	Minister, in France, one year after its creation, the Themis cell which accompanies victims of sexual violence in the army, has announced that it has been seized of a hundred cases and remains determined to "free speech" in the face of fears of reprisals. According to the comptroller general of the armies Bernard Ducateau, who heads the structure, "of the 96 cases (harassment, discrimination and sexual abuse) that we have dealt with since April 2014, about 90% concern women and 10% of cases of homophobia". As a reminder, in Belgium, the House had adopted under the previous legislature a motion for a resolution on gender diversity in Defence which dealt with the fight against all discrimination in National Defence. We know that, as in civil society, there can be a veritable chapter on sexual violence and discrimination in the army. I would therefore like to ask you a few questions, Mr. Minister. In France, a number of concrete initiatives have been taken in this context. A training kit was being developed for young recruits' instructors, various mechanisms had been put in place to combat the fear of victims of reprisals, and several posts for women had been opened. At the Belgian level, what new initiatives have been taken since the adoption of this resolution to combat sexual violence and gender discrimination in your department? Is there an exchange of good practice in this area between the European and NATO armies? In cases of discrimination or sexual abuse, what is the procedure at the level of the Belgian Defence? Does it really allow victims to file complaints without fear of reprisals? In the case of missions within a coalition composed of several states, what is the procedure and follow-up provided by our Defence? In terms of gender diversity, what new initiatives do you intend to take to ensure the attractiveness of all functions vis-à-vis the female public? What measures are being taken to combat racism in your department? What specific measures have been taken at the military level to combat discrimination in relation to sexual orientation? In France, such discrimination and sexual violence appear to be particularly relevant to the lower ranks of the military hierarchy. Are specific measures taken at these levels in Belgium?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic143x.u94	Madam President, Mr Pirlot, the fight against sexual violence and gender discrimination is a constant concern of the Defence. Specific rules and procedures in this area are described in internal publications of June 2013 dealing with the psychosocial burden caused by work, in informal procedures via trusted persons and in formal procedures through the filing of a complaint with a preventive adviser specialising in psychosocial aspects of internal work related to it. Guarantees are provided for the procedure to proceed in complete discretion, and special protection is provided during the formal procedure. In addition, the Defence has already taken several steps based on best practices to improve the gender balance – you will recall the answers I have already given on this subject – such as training gender advisers for operations, strict application of equal opportunities for women and men, implementation of UN Resolution 1325 and independent gender selection tests. In addition to developing the guidelines, Defence is increasing its expertise by participating in the International Working Group Preventing and responding to gender related complaints in armed forces, which is overseen by the Geneva Center for the Democratic Control of Armed Forces (DCAF).
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic143x.u95	Minister, you see that the language commissions serve!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic143x.u96	In the event of a mission within an international coalition, Belgian procedures remain applicable for the Belgian military. As agreed upon at the end of parliamentary work in 2014, a study on the evaluation of Defence gender policy was initiated. This assessment is based on the study I have just cited. The results of the study can be used to take initiatives in the field of diversity, with a permanent focus on improving the well-being of staff and optimizing the functioning of the department. Within Defence, the fight against racism is part of the overall diversity policy. Particular attention is paid to the value of respect. Standards and values courses are given during basic training and regularly repeated in units. In addition, recent social media initiatives such as Facebook are part of the modern defence approach. Recently, Defence issued a directive on sexual orientation in diversity policy. The Directive clarifies the concept of sexual orientation and other related concepts. It describes the context, areas of action, instruments, actors and complaint procedures in this area. Currently, military personnel are not permitted to demonstrate or parade in uniform, regardless of the nature of the demonstration or parade. Defence does not intend to change this policy. For the time being, the Defence does not have any elements that require further action with respect to its personnel.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic143x.u97	Mr Minister, the past Easter holiday was not an internship for young people for the first time in the paracommand training centre in Schaffen in Diest. The traditional camp would have fallen away from the Defense Department because of saving exercises. For that traditional internship in the Easter holiday, however, many Flemish and Walloon young people were guests for a week in Schaffen. Those boys and girls learned, among other things, the basic techniques of fall-shield jumping. The airbase in Schaffen, which I myself know quite well, lends itself perfectly to that because all the material is available there. More importantly, some young people who took part in that internship got the taste to take the step to the army. This is undoubtedly a good thing if we know that in the coming years, the defence sector will have to pay particular attention to the rejuvenation of its equipment. Fortunately there will be an internship for young people in Schaffen in the summer. There are also many other camps. However, I would have liked to ask you a number of questions, Minister. How many young people have participated in the Easter camp in Schaffen in recent years? How many took part in the summer camp? How many of the participating young people are effectively passing to the Defense Department? Is this about a temporary saving or is the Easter camp in Schaffen being abolished for good? How much does the DOD save by abolishing this camp? How do you evaluate the camps as an added value for the Defense Department? Do you think those camps contribute to recruiting boys and girls for our army?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic143x.u98	Ms Hufkens, in 2013, 57 French-speaking and 60 Dutch-speaking young people took part in the Easter camp in Schaffen. 60 French speakers and 60 Dutch speakers participated in the 2013 Summer Camp. In 2014 it was again 57 French-speaking and 60 Dutch-speaking young people for the Easter camp, and 58 French-speaking and 60 Dutch-speaking young people for the summer camp. Of all young people, who participated in the camps in 2014, 1 Dutch language and 1 French language were recruited. The overall offer of youth placements at Defense was reduced from 32 to 22 in 2014, with a total saving of around 50,000 euros. This is indeed a temporary abolition of a number of youth placements as a result of budgetary savings. I believe that the youth placements are certainly an added value for the defense, but they also have a cost. Traineeships must be kept under constant review and we must also take account of the resources available. Over the past four years, 2.75% of the military members of this group have taken part in a youth placement. That's not very little, but it's not very much either. We must look at the results in relation to the resources deployed. I believe that the traineeships have added value, but rather in the context of bringing Defence closer to the youth and contributing to the overall image of Defence. In addition, they create a greater support base for the Defense Department. The direct return seems rather disappointing to me, but the internships remain important in the context of the general image of Defence.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic143x.u99	Mr Minister, two members are indeed not so many. I'm afraid it's so little. However, as you are replying, and I also know from experience of people who have already participated in such a camp, an incorporation effectively contributes to the image of Defence. So I'm glad you can see that, too. I am also curious to know whether I have written a follow-up question on the other camps. I am also looking forward to evaluating how we can use it so that more flow can be made, or to evaluating how these camps can be better organized.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic143x.u100	Mr President, Minister, last week I received an answer to a written question concerning the early return of military personnel to foreign missions. This shows that 27 soldiers were repatriated in 2014 for medical reasons and that none of these were due to post-traumatic stress disorder or PTSD. Answers to previous questions show that in recent years no military was repatriated for that reason. Post-traumatic stress complaints can also occur later, but in our country there is no systematic screening of military personnel who have participated in a high-risk mission, although they are at increased risk. My interviews with the Department of Defense psychologists show that even military personnel who have psychological complaints at the Department of Defense's Center for Mental Health are not specifically screened for PTSD. Defence has therefore no idea of the number of soldiers with PTSS, even because some soldiers prefer to seek help in the civilian sector or because that step is too great for them. Mr Minister, I would like to ask the following questions to explain how the defence sector is dealing with this problem. What is Defence's current policy on PTSD? What figures can the Defense base itself on in the formulation of the policy? Are figures from abroad or from other risk groups being exchanged or studied? You said earlier in plenary that you asked the Defence Staff to study the structural framework for the personnel returning after an operation. Is the possibility of carrying out systematic screening of all military personnel who have participated in major risk operations being examined? If not, why not? In other countries, an adaptation axis is used as a means to combat PTSS. Is the possibility of an adaptation ash being investigated? If not, why not?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic143x.u101	Mrs Grosemans, the policy of Defence with regard to post-traumatic stress syndrome, PTSS, is part of the policy on the psychosocial well-being of the military, which I recently explained in the Committee of 25 February 2015. In the last six months, 6 new patients for post-traumatic stress syndromes have been treated at the Centre for Mental Health of the Military Hospital Queen Astrid out of a total of 199 patients. Indeed, the incidence of PTSS in the deployed military cannot be calculated precisely, because, as you yourself have mentioned, some of the patients are seeking help outside of Defense. When we look at the Centre for Mental Health of the Military Hospital of King Astrid, we find that of the patients who come on consultation, 40% come on their own initiative, so without referral. The problem of post-traumatic stress disorders is closely monitored by the Defense Department in consultation with colleagues from neighbouring countries. The Belgian figures available to us are in the order of the figures of the European partners. As mentioned earlier, we are following this issue closely. We are now working on a programme that will allow military personnel to investigate critical incidents on an individual basis after their return, on the one hand, and to systematically screen all military personnel at the end of the mission, on the other. Soon we will proceed to a first test case.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic143x.u102	Minister, it is very sensible that you have at last mapped out who is actually doing this. I know a lot of people are doing that. The Military Hospital Queen Astrid has advisors, a service of mental operationality, chaplains and social assistants. I understand from those people themselves that they do not really know exactly who is concerned with what and it is therefore a good thing that all this is finally being mapped out. It is also a good thing that it will finally not be words, but that action will be taken. I've asked a lot of questions about PTSD in the past and I've always had long answers on paper, but that's it. I am pleased that a pilot project is now being launched.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic143x.u103	Mr President, at the end of March, budgetary control was completed. Now we have a better view of the budgets of the various departments, including the Defence Department. We are, of course, pleased that a EUR 100 million pot has been allocated to the defence sector to meet our international commitments. One of these commitments is the mission in Iraq, within the framework of the alliance. For this purpose, funds are entered in the budget until the end of June. The question is what will then be decided. That mission takes a big bite out of the budget after all. As you have said on several occasions in committee, solidarity is important. I have the following questions, Minister. In view of budgetary control, are there any means to continue the mission beyond June, i.e. for the second half of 2015? Are you planning on continuing that mission? Did you already get a question from the international coalition? I assume that the question from the coalition will be maintained. In previous debates on this subject, you said that there might be a turn-roll system with other countries. Have you had any contacts on this? Has a turn-roll system been developed for our F-16 chassis?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic143x.u104	Mr Yüksel, allow me first to specify that budgetary control has given us additional resources, first and foremost to fulfil our historical obligations and not our international obligations. I actually mean that we can settle our debts, because that is what it comes down to. It is true that the mandate of our F-16 Members expires at the end of June and another mandate expires on 31 August. Together with our partners, we are holding talks to continue our efforts after the end of our mandate, so that they are also acceptable to the partners involved. Today, unfortunately, it is still too early to present concrete results, but I hope to be able to clarify them before we effectively withdraw our F-16s from Iraq.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic143x.u105	Madam President, Minister, thank you for your answer. I will, of course, come back to the issue; it is too early to give any concrete information on it. It is, of course, a good thing that we can continue our international mission in terms of budgets and possibilities. If there were to be a turn-over, it would of course be a good thing for us to take up our position and our place in this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic143x.u106	Madam President, my question is linked to the one that Mr Yüksel has just asked, which concerns the extension of our mission to Iraq. Before that, we will first examine the effects of our presence at this stage. Minister, on 13 April last, the US Department of Defense published on its website a map and a costed balance sheet of the military campaign currently underway in Iraq and Syria. This map covers the areas currently occupied by Daesh, as well as the areas estimated by the regular Iraqi forces between August 2014 and April 2015. You will recall that I have, on numerous occasions, requested that such maps be presented to Members of the Special Commission, who are responsible for monitoring the foreign missions of the House of Representatives, if they are not available in the National Defence Public Commission. It is essential, in our view, that we be able to measure and assess in concrete terms the effectiveness of the air strikes against Daesh with graphic support covering the areas of occupation of each of the belligerents - us and the enemy. In response to my insistence, a map of this type has only been presented to us twice - behind closed doors - since the start of Operation Desert Falcon. Minister, the document released by the U.S. Department of Defense states that 5,784 targets have been destroyed. Could you tell me how many of these strategic objectives were destroyed by explosive devices released by the Belgian F-16s? Now that the main coalition partner currently working in Iraq (and Syria), the United States, publishes on the Internet the status of the strikes and the territorial occupation of the main actors involved, do you intend to do the same on the Belgian Defence website, with particular emphasis on the actions carried out by the Belgian F-16s? Will you also distill this information in a public session of the National Defence Commission, knowing that now our American ally does so via the Internet?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic143x.u107	Mr Hellings, for reasons of pacification, the details of the Belgian commitment are presented only in the Special Commission, which is responsible for monitoring missions abroad, of which you are a member. The United States is the main partner of the coalition. They also provide operational command structures. Overall statistics and situational data on the ground are classified information provided to us by these command structures. We are prohibited from broadcasting them outside the authorized circles. In addition, the publication of this information could lead to specific reprisals directed against Belgian Defence personnel. For these reasons, we do not intend to publish on our website information about our F-16 strikes in Iraq, nor to present them in public session of the National Defence Commission.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic143x.u108	Minister, I regret this lack of transparency. We had already regretted it. You can quite say how many of those 5,784 targets destroyed were destroyed by Belgians, without specifying in a public session who did it or where it was done. You can remain vague, and say that such a percentage of the total targets have been hit by Belgian F-16s. This is normal because it is with the taxes paid by Belgian citizens that these weapons work in Iraq. It is normal for us to know how effective they are. Measuring Daesh's progress in Iraq is measuring the effectiveness of a policy that is being pursued by this government. We can measure it in camera, but know that your American ally is releasing information that you have refused us in camera for a very long time, and now in public, on the Internet. It would be interesting, as the Defence has done in the past, for a specific page of the website to take up the various Belgian commitments in the field of operations abroad. Here, in this case, you just have to take back, on the Defence site, the cards as disclosed by the U.S. Department of Defense, your U.S. partners. The Belgian citizen will then find the information that is also available in English on the website of the American Ally. Efforts must be made to ensure that the general public understands what is happening on the ground. The Internet is a tool that is unfortunately misused today.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic143x.u109	Madam President, Minister, I come back to you with a technical but essential question at a time when industrial espionage and cyberattacks are multiplying around the world. In order to support my point, I will tell you that one in five Belgian companies has already been the victim of industrial espionage, which has led to losses, which can be estimated at billions of euros. Cyberattacks are increasing and are either the result of international organizations such as the Islamic State or of states such as the Funny virus, implemented by the NSA, which has led to cyberattacks in Russia, China, etc. The SGRS plays a key role in protecting the scientific and economic potential of our country and its businesses and industries. As a result of the sixth reform of the State, much of the competence specific to this potential is now in the hands of the Regions of our country. Therefore, Minister, have any contacts been made between the SGRS and the federated entities within the framework of its competence to protect the scientific and economic potential? How does collaboration between the SGRS and the entities take place? How does it structure itself if an attack on this potential should be suspected or even proven? How can Regions communicate with the SMS to prevent such situations a priori?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic143x.u110	Madam President, Minister, while the incidence of computer hacking in several media has increased recently, Belgium presented its cybersecurity strategy, entrusted to the Defence at the beginning of April. And this strategy seems ambitious! Indeed, you yourself have indicated "that we are currently in the development phase but by 2019 we should be able to talk about a real cyber component next to the components land, air and sea". You have, it seems, forgotten the medical component, but I will come back to it later, to see if it is destined to disappear. There is therefore a question of a component in its own right, which is far from anecdotal. If I have been able to appreciate the press articles on this subject, I would like to hear more about the details of this cybersecurity strategy to parliamentarians. Beyond this ambition to make cybersecurity a specific component of Defence, what missions, what objectives, what priorities must now be at the heart of this new strategy? How is it actually planned to ensure the IT security of our country, our government, our strategic infrastructure and our economic interests? What are the mechanisms and methods by which? It is thus a question of Belgium finally being able to "respond" and thus "attack" (or rather counter-attack) our "cyber-enemies". This is an issue that I have regularly put forward, since it seemed to me to be absolutely necessary and urgent that our security services should be able to put an end to harming those who commit intrusions into our computer systems, as long as they are often identified, without having the means, the authorization or the legal possibility to answer them. How is it planned to act quickly on these priority issues? Unless I am mistaken, you agreed in a debate that we had together in committee that the legal basis was not sufficient to carry out these counter-offensives. I ask you for a clarification because, regularly, in the newspapers, I hear that this legal basis would exist and I understand that it was not there. It would be interesting to know whether a legislative initiative should be taken. Defence is subject to unprecedented budgetary restrictions. What exactly will be the financial, material and human resources that will be allocated to this strategy and to this future component? Above all, we must be able to combine actions with words and give ourselves the means to realize this ambition. Is your strategy really realistic within the current budget constraints? Will you be able to afford it? For example, cyber expert Philippe Van Lancker considers that Belgium is "too late with too few means and not in the right direction". For him, hiring 25 experts as planned from the SGRS is very insufficient: "With these 25 new jobs, the cybersecurity cell will be composed of no more than 35 people. What for? Reporting? Monitoring? The plan is not clear. At Fortinet, we are 300 experts 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. For 35 very competent people, the job seems far too big." I wish I'd heard you on that review.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic143x.u111	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, as part of its mandate under the Act of 30 November 1998, the General Intelligence and Security Service (SGRS) has invited various federal and federal agencies to attend various information sessions to raise awareness of the service and its various expertise in this area. In this regard, Walloon and Flemish politicians were also able to be informed and made aware of the problem of protecting the scientific and industrial economic potential. The last information activity was held in September 2014 in association with the State Security Agency. In addition to the defence industries, various organisations have responded, namely the SPF Economy, the National Security Authority, the Walloon Region Economic Stimulus Agency, the Walloon Export and Foreign Investment Agency, Brussels Invest & Export and Brussels International. During the presentation, the various SGRS departments responsible for security clearances, cyber-defence, military security and counter-intelligence were able to explain their tasks and provide relevant contact information to the entities and agencies present. The SGRS intends to continue this type of activity in 2015 in order to expand its collaboration with other federated entities. Since June 2012, a classified list of actors to be protected has been established by the Minister of Justice and the Minister of Defence. Formal collaboration with federated entities already exists on an ad hoc basis in the form of information exchange. Where the federated entities so wish, they may inform the competent services of the SGRS of an infringement of their potential. Under the coordination of the Belgian Cybersecurity Centre, the forces of the various government departments will be combined, in close collaboration with academic and industrial entities. Defence wants to play a leading role and will be fully integrated into this approach. For the second part of your question, Mr Dallemagne, I can confirm that at the last meeting of this committee on 18 March, I gave quite in-depth answers to this question. I therefore refer you to the minutes of this meeting. With regard to the criticism made by the cybersecurity expert you mentioned, I would say to you that it is not because the means devoted to cybersecurity are not very extensive that we should not invest, on the contrary. I can tell you that cybersecurity will be an important part of my plan. The information and intelligence system will be carried out within the framework of the warfare hybrid. We will need to develop cybersecurity skills and capabilities.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic143x.u112	Minister, I have two remarks. I hear that it is mainly entities that, at the level of the federal state, came at your invitation, at the invitation of the SGRS and entities on the Walloon and Brussels side. There seems to be no interest on the Flemish side yet. That is what I understand by the fact that other federated entities will be invited in the future. This surprises me a little, but it is a good thing and I congratulate you on coordinating all these entities. I see there's an interest and a classified list of actors has been identified. Sounds like a great thing to me. On the other hand, Minister, as far as the legal basis is concerned, you did not reply. Is there a need for an additional legal basis in relation to the current situation to be able to carry out this target neutralization? It's just a technical question. The information circulates in the press that you now have the legal basis. However, I understood and you told me in committee that no and that the legal basis should be strengthened. Do you confirm the answer you gave me at the time, at the time of the discussion on the policy note?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic143x.u113	If the idea is to broaden the possibilities of use, the legal basis will have to be adapted. Today, we are working within the existing framework.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic143x.u114	I know the law well. I read it again. You have to be at war with a country to be able to neutralize. We are obviously not at war with anyone. We must therefore ensure that targets are neutralized for countries with which we are not at war. It's important. For the rest, I am pleased that this issue is being taken seriously. I hope that, in the future, we will have the means to better protect ourselves because it has truly become an extremely high priority for our collective security.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic143x.u115	Mr Minister, this is a question in response to reports from barracks. In times of savings, choices have to be made and these take their toll. We are told that every euro is not always handled carefully. For example, electricity and chauffage works are carried out by a private company. From the barracks we get reports that these works could be carried out by the military themselves, but also that they are done at usury prices by a private company. Quality would also often be lost. Minister, I would like an answer to the following questions. Is it true that, among other things, electricity and coaching works are entrusted to a private company? Does this company take any other orders from the Defense Department? How much does the Department of Defense pay to this company a month? Has there been a comparison of how much it would cost to have the same assignments carried out by the Defense Department? Which companies are still working with the Defense Department, and for which maintenance work? What tasks are being outsourced at the moment? Are there any checks on the tenders for the execution of a contract? I don't doubt that. Are these offers compared between different companies? Finally, will checks be carried out on the quality of the performance of these contracts? If insufficient quality were to be provided, what would be the impact on the defence and on the company concerned?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic143x.u116	Mr Top, it is a pity that the press is no longer present in the Chamber, because I am going to give a real scoop, even about my strategic plan. I have reason to believe that electricity works, sanitary work and chauffage work are not really the core tasks of the Defense Department. I can confirm that the key tasks we have carried out in relation to our strategic vision of the future of Defence, electricity works and chauffage works will not be part of the strategic core tasks nor of strategic functions. The big scoop: yes, electricity and chauffage works are entrusted to private company debt holders within the Defense Department. These include complex electricity works with a high workload or requiring specific competences or tools. These firms also maintain, for example, other technical installations such as cranes, spray booths, compressed air installations, etc. All contracts contracted under this type of work have been carried out since the 1990s. These amounts amount to EUR 1 750 000 each month. Today, neither the Defense Department nor the staff have excepted perhaps your tipster who, after the chauffage and electricity works, may occasionally drop a bomb with an F-16 if he has time to do so, neither the equipment nor the skills to carry out that kind of work himself. A calculation of the costs if the orders were to be carried out by Defence itself cannot therefore be made, because we do not have the people and we do not know. In these domains, which is perhaps interesting, there are contracts with the company "Cofely," Imtech, TEM, TPF, Veolia, Collignon, Genetics, Nuyts, Lemaire and Van Cauter. The comparison of tenders takes place in the procurement of contracts, in accordance with the legal provisions for public procurement, which are usually applied fairly rigorously by the Defence Department, and with respect for all rules on administrative and budgetary controls. There are checks before, during and after performing the works. In the event of non-conformity, the firm concerned shall be called upon to rectify the defects found and the penalties provided for in the contract shall be imposed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic143x.u117	Minister, it is a pity that the press is not present. Then you and the press would find that your answer has nothing to do with the question. I did not talk at all about a core task or doubt whether or not something would be a core task.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic143x.u118	I have answered all your questions, Mr Top. One by one.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic143x.u119	You have included matters that have nothing whatsoever to do with the discussion of whether or not to hold or subcontract core tasks. That wasn't the question at all. Let me now turn to the content of the question. I am, of course, pleased that you have given an answer on the number of firms with a list of them. Of course, I am also pleased that you have given some answers on what is being outsourced. However, you did not answer the last questions. I have not received an answer to the question of whether there is proper and sufficient control over the execution of the works. What are the possible consequences or penalty clauses could have been an answer to my question. You didn't say anything about that. I'm rounding up. I'm going along with the story of outsourcing as far as it's not core tasks. These matters can be outsourced in so far as there is proper control of their execution, in so far as the cost is effectively lower than if one does the works themselves and in so far as one can guarantee the security of the performer and of the defence himself. The story of the intern in the police department a few days ago, I wouldn't like to run into it in the D.O.D.'s office. If all these things are met, we can indeed talk about outsourcing. One final comment. It has to be sustainable, too. Today we may be able to get a good price, but I hope that these outsourcings will continue to be interesting in the long term. I therefore hope that no new contracts will be submitted to you in the foreseeable future for which prices are much higher.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic143x.u120	Madam President, if you will allow me, I will repeat the last two paragraphs of my reply. Firstly, it concerns contracts awarded under the Public Procurement Act. You don't think I should negotiate privately, do you? It is always about contracts awarded after comparison within the public procurement law. That is a first point. Secondly, the necessary controls are being carried out. If it is not in order, contractual penalties will be imposed. I don't know how much more I can answer. However, I note that next time we want to invest in new weapons or better protection for our people, you would prefer me to look at pliers and screwdrivers to repair the chauffages.
