ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip055x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip055x.u2	I have received two technical amendments from Mrs Onkelinx (139/6) to the bill (Mr Willy Demeyer, Mrs Fabienne Winckel, Mr Eric Massin and Mrs Laurette Onkelinx and Mrs Özlem Özen) to make several technical corrections to a number of codes and laws, No. 139/1. I have received two technical amendments from Mrs Onkelinx (139/6) to the bill (Mr Willy Demeyer, Mrs Fabienne Winckel, Mr Eric Massin and Mrs Laurette Onkelinx and Mrs Özlem Özen) making various technical corrections in certain codes and in certain laws, No 139/1. I propose that these amendments be sent back to the Justice Committee which adopted the legislative proposal. I suggest that you refer them to the Committee on Justice, which adopted the bill. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip055x.u3	I propose that a single discussion be devoted to these two draft laws. I propose that you devote one discussion to these two bills. A limited general discussion was held in accordance with Rule 116 of the Rules of Procedure. Pursuant to rule 116, the bill is subject to limited general discussion.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip055x.u4	The limited general discussion is open. The limited general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip055x.u5	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Ministers, in agreement with the co-rapporteur Mr Deseyn, I will briefly introduce the first part of the report of your Committee on Finance and Budget, which has met six times to consider the bill containing the adjustment of the General Estimates for the 2015 budget year. In his introductory statement, the Minister for the Budget explained that he had used the information contained in the note of the Monitoring Committee as a starting point for budgetary control. He said that the government also took into account the recent report of the Supreme Council of Finance (SFC) on the fiscal trajectory in preparation for the 2015-2018 stability programme, which sets the budgetary effort for 2015 to a structural improvement of 0.6% of GDP for entity I. The government has decided to make an effort of EUR 200 million higher than the CSF's target of improving the structural effort to a level of 0.65%. After various adjustments of figures set out in the note of the Monitoring Committee, including the correction of 750 million to the decrease of the amount of tax revenue transferred by the Federal State to the Communities and Regions and the additional measures, the overall effort is estimated at EUR 1,019 billion in revenue and expenditure. After presenting the adjustments of the liquidation appropriations to a maximum of 236 million, he reported an interdepartmental provision from 296 million euros to the initial to 151.2 million euros. In health care, €4.977 million has been structurally planned to implement the new mental health care policy for children and adolescents with an overall health care target of €23,851.787 million. In terms of savings, we note EUR 20 million on the non-variable part of the administrative costs of insurers and EUR 5 million on the amount of the international conventions of INAMI. In the area of social security, alternative financing amounts to EUR 5,898 million, an increase of 16.7% over the initial budget, mainly due to the mistake of EUR 409 million by the National Pension Office or the inclusion of the welfare envelope in the social security figures. In addition, social security revenues and expenditure are influenced by new measures such as employment support in labour-intensive sectors or youth employment, as well as by the fight against social fraud. At the level of tax revenues, the Minister highlights measures to promote the investment in venture capital of start-up companies and for non-tax revenues, an increase in the rent paid by the National Lottery. The representative of the Court of Auditors at his hearing outlined the Court's observations on the general statement and the budget for the Ways and Means. Another representative addressed the General Estimates and social security. The first indicates that the proposed fiscal adjustment is the result of the change in macroeconomic parameters (the Bureau reduced economic growth from 1.5 per cent of GDP to 1 per cent, and estimated inflation from 1.3 per cent of GDP to 0 per cent). He states that the adjusted budget is consistent with the FSB's trajectory and the stability program for the years 2015-2018. In addition, total tax revenues amount to EUR 108 billion, a decrease of EUR 4.1 billion, mainly due to the decrease in the regional additional tax on personal tax (PPI) and the reduction in the allocation from PPI and VAT. The second adviser of the Court of Auditors focuses on the provisional appropriations with an allocation of 200 million to cover non-structural expenditure on security. This provision will also be used, for $101 million, to pay the CPS's invoice arrears. In addition, in the Justice Section, 37 million have been provided for the statutory staff of prisons and State Security, as well as judges. In the Defence section, an additional $121 million was added for operating and capital expenditures. In the Social Integration, Poverty Alleviation and Social Economy section, a credit of 747 million was entered to pay the federal government's share of the integration income paid by CPAS. Depending on the number of people who might be affected, this figure may not be sufficient. The representative of the Court of Auditors concluded his statement with comments on social security. In the part of the debate devoted to the questions of the members of the Court of Auditors, a rich exchange took place with numerous questions from both the majority and the opposition. For example, our colleague Mrs Smaers asked for clarification as to the calculation of the return effects of tax measures. My colleague rapporteur, Mr Deseyn, is wondering about the backlog of invoices in the Justice FPS and the impact of the non-taxation of the welfare envelope. Luk Van Biesen asked whether the decrease in regional PPI was correctly estimated. Karin Temmerman asks a series of questions about tax measures. Georges Gilkinet questions the quantification of tax measures such as the contribution of the diamond sector and the transparency tax, as well as the revenue of the nuclear rent. Benoît Dispa, like other colleagues, points out that a lot of revenue – Cayman tax, carat tax, bank tax, etc. – are considered uncertain. Ahmed Laaouej, on the other hand, refers to the decrease in the regional PPI. I'm sure he'll be back later. Sophie Wilmès explains that the Court of Auditors only targets the revenues of a few measures which cannot yet be properly estimated. Benoît Piedboeuf also intervenes on the reduction of the regional IPP and on the backlog of invoices of the SPFJustice. The Court of Auditors has provided the answers, for which I refer you to the written report. The Minister for the Budget then responded to the Court of Auditors' remarks and to certain questions raised by the members of the committee, as you can read in the written report to which I am referring.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip055x.u6	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it was a pleasure to have the report with Mr Frédéric Daerden. As you have all heard and understood very carefully, Mr Daerden mentioned the introductory remarks made by the Minister of Finance and the Minister for the Budget, the comments and the discussion with the Court of Auditors. I would like to say something about the general and the article-by-article discussion. I will not keep you on this for too long, but I will, with some representative quotes, encourage the desire for a further reading of the comprehensive report. The PS Group, through Mr Ahmed Laaouej, believes that the estimation of the revenue from the viewing tax is based on parameters that are currently not sufficiently known. It notes that the projections for corporate tax revenue for 2015 are estimated at €14.9 billion. This is an increase of more than EUR 2.6 billion. Mr Karin Temmerman of the sp.a has questions about the estimated increase of 3% to 7% for the contribution of the diamond sector. It notes that as far as APETRA is concerned, the elements on which the higher contribution is based are not known. I myself have welcomed the efforts to work out a solution to remove the arrears. I was also wondering why the government is abandoning the fiscalisation of the welfare envelope. Mr Benoît Dispa of cdH emphasizes the shortcomings in the adjusted budget as pointed out by the Court of Auditors in his opinion. Ms Sophie Wilmès of the MR recalls that this government works in a team. The budget conclave was completed in one weekend in all discretion. Mr Stéphane Crusnière of the PS stressed that the Court of Auditors estimated the late payment to Justice at EUR 182.9 million on 31 December 2014. That is higher than the EUR 100 million envisaged. Mr Georges Gilkinet of Ecolo-Groen felt that the estimates of the viewing tax and the carat tax were not well substantiated and that the revenue from nuclear interest had not been adjusted. Mr Hendrik Vuye of the N-VA is satisfied with the outcome of budgetary control, which re-connects the government with the budgetary path outlined by the High Council of Finance in the stability programme. Mr Eric Van Rompuy points out that the objective of budgetary control is to check whether the figures set out in December of the previous year correspond to economic reality and to the parameters of economic growth and inflation, and to adjust them where necessary. Kristof Calvo of Ecolo-Groen notes that there is some disagreement in the majority, including with regard to the tax shift. Mr Griet Smaers asks that Belgium should use the improvement of the economic climate to reduce debt. Marco Van Hees from PTB-GO! notes that public services are being saved, resulting in job losses. I give the answers of the ministers in two sentences. Minister Jamar notes that under unchanged circumstances Belgium will have to save EUR 6.9 billion to achieve a budgetary balance in 2018. The Minister points out that the previous Di Rupo government has saved EUR 11 billion over three years. That's a lot more. The Minister of Finance stresses that the whole thing is wrong to claim that the federal government has put its budget in order at the expense of the Regions and Communities. Mr President, I hope that with the taster I have given everyone an incredible sense of reading the full report this evening after the plenary session.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip055x.u7	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, budgetary control is an exercise to check whether the budget is on track. That answer is positive. I would advise everyone to read the excellent report by Mr Daerden and Mr Deseyn. We have received answers to most of the questions during very long discussions and I thank the services for their excellent work. The discussion and the report show that we are on track with the stability programme to achieve a zero deficit by 2018. Our budget is entirely in line with what the High Council of Finance has recommended to us on the stability programme. What was predicted by the opposition here at Christmas, that the budget would end up in an excess deficit procedure in Europe, has not happened. It is not only the European Commission's opinion, but also the High Council of Finance and the National Bank's view that the deficit will be structurally reduced by 0.65%, which means that the deficit of all governments together will fall from 3.2 % to 2.5 %. There is a great continuity in the reorganisation policy. According to the National Bank's calculations, there is a structural improvement in the budget balance of 1.1 % between 2011 and 2013. So the previous Di Rupo government did get rid of it. The deficits have also been reduced during that period and if the government programme is implemented for the 2015 budget, the improvement will be from 1.1 % to 1.8 % in 2016. The primary income for the first time has been higher than primary expenditure for a very long time, so we finally have a primary surplus back, which is very important, we want to repay the debt in the long term. In order to achieve a balanced structural budget, further consolidation measures are needed. According to the National Bank of Greece and the Minister for the Budget, Mr Jamar, this has been confirmed in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, an additional EUR 4 billion effort is needed in 2016 and 2017. If we also include the Communities and the Regions, we will have a total effort of EUR 6 billion, of which EUR 1.5 billion next year and all this above the measures that have already been taken. Thinking that budgetary restructuring is over is an illusion. Serious efforts will still have to be made in the following years. Besides, this government is working in continuity with the previous government. The National Bank has calculated that the government budget under the Di Rupo government has been adjusted by EUR 3.6 billion. The Michel administration will do the same. There is continuity in this respect. I think it is important to propose this in this way. The economy remains a worry child. Despite the weak euro, low interest rates and lower oil prices, we will not achieve the necessary 2 % in the next two years: 1.2 % in 2015, 1.5 % in 2016 and 1.7 % in 2017 is too little. We must get growth above 2% if we are to achieve results in the long term in terms of employment and the budget. Sometimes there is positive news, for example today. We have been discussing competitiveness and the index for months. I note today that in Belgium, before the index jump was made, labour costs fell the most from the OECD countries. This is important for our competitiveness in the long term. The wage moderation of the Di Rupo government has been successful and we must strengthen it with the new measures that this government has taken. However, we are on the right track, as we are on the right track with our budget. Europe wishes us luck, in the sense that we are perfectly on track for the 2018 growth path. There are also some good news about competitiveness. The labour market also remains a child of concern. However, the National Bank and the Planning Bureau say that the opposition may also hear that, we hear very little about the increase in 24 000 jobs in 2015, 30 000 in 2016 and 39 000 in 2017. In the period from 2015 to 2017, we will have 94 000 additional jobs, Mr Calvo. Unemployment will fall from 8.5 % to 7.9 %. So our economy is growing too little, but job creation is starting, including in the private sector. A few months ago, the Planning Bureau did not expect this growth in the private sector to be so strong. If we can then get that boost on competitiveness, I believe that in the following years we can move towards better economic and social times. The budget for 2015 has been adjusted. If we look at those first figures, it has nothing to do with social horror. On the contrary, Belgium's real disposable income will increase in 2015. About the index jump that will come in 2017, the National Bank says that it will have a slightly negative effect in the short term. However, the governor of the National Bank says that this will be positive in the long term and that this index jump is very important. There are many measures in this budget. If we add up all the measures in budgetary control, we will get around 1 billion. During the discussion in committee it was said that the Court of Auditors is making firewood out of the budget. I can still see the titles. Well, if I look at the discussion in committee, there is not much left of that firewood, in the sense that people criticized the late invoices from the Justice Department, which were not booked this year but last year, but that everyone is now happy that those behinds have been cleaned up, what they have been asking for for for years. There has also been a lot of discussion about the spillover to the Communities and the Regions. There was indeed a problem in procedural terms. However, we have also seen the calculations of the Court of Auditors. For the first time, there are algebra formulas in the report of a committee of the Chamber. You should take a look at it and get your best algebra out. Mr De Vis of the Court of Auditors has made the calculations and finally he comes to another interpretation: not EUR 750 million, but EUR 125 million was not passed on to the Communities and the Regions, or about 20% of the amount originally proposed. All matters have been cleared up in this area too. At 50 billion in primary expenditure, the opposition only criticized a few tens of millions. If I add up the things you have criticised, Mr Gilkinet, then it is marginal.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip055x.u8	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip055x.u9	I also hear a lot of criticism about revenue, but there are 100 billion receipts, and you have contested at most 60 or 70 million of these revenue. That doesn't impress me at all. On the basis of budgetary control, we can see in the debate that the government is on course and can also take an important course in the following years. The potential is there. We also talked about the tax shift. I certainly don't want to avoid that theme. I have also said this in committee, and it remains the position of our group: the tax shift has an economic significance in the first place. We must give an extra boost to competitiveness, which evolves in a good way with the index jump and lower social contributions in 2016. The OECD also asked for this yesterday. The National Bank is also asking for this. The burden on labour must be reduced. The patronial contributions should go from 33% to 25% and even lower for low wages. There can also be an effort in the difference between net and gross wages. Social workers' contributions can be reduced in order to combat the fall in unemployment. We must restore competitiveness, but it is clear that this is also apparent from the discussions in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities that the tax shift will have to be spread over several years, it will not be a one-off operation in one budgetary year and, secondly, it must be fiscally neutral. In the following years, we still have to find about 4 billion to stay on course in order to have a budget balance in 2018. The exercise of the tax shift or shift of taxes should not give rise to new savings in social security or public expenditure. After all, we will need them in the 2016 budget at the end of the year in order to stay on course.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip055x.u10	Mr Van Rompuy, I listened very carefully to the first part of your speech. It is not entirely a surprise for the hemisphere that you also mention the tax shift. You did the same on the committee. I would like to remind you that it is quite incomprehensible to me that your party did not address this yard in the course of the government negotiations. Other things were decided quickly, including things that were not in your programme, such as the pension at 67 years, the index jump, 1.5 billion euros savings in social security. It's too bad the tax shift wasn't finished then, but be it, that's the past. In order to move forward this time, it is important that the government at least agrees on the principles. You say that the tax shift for CD&V should be budget neutral, but the other majority parties show a very different sound. If we hear them in amusement parks, zoos and television studios, they say that we must save and that these savings will make it possible to reduce the burden on labour. That is a contradiction, which should be resolved at this stage. Is it your highest personal view that a tax shift should be budget neutral, or is that your group's position? That too is sometimes difficult to follow.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip055x.u11	I am always speaking on behalf of my group, Mr Calvo.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip055x.u12	Is it therefore the view of the whole majority? Has there been a consensus on this within the majority?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip055x.u13	At the moment there are discussions going on in the nuclear cabinet about the tax shift. There are some slopes on the table. In the next few weeks we will see what the result is. The basic principles of our group are, on the one hand, that competitiveness should be strengthened, and, on the other hand, that it should be compensated through a number of other taxes, namely taxes on consumption, taxes on the environment and capital gains tax, on the other hand. These are the three components, which have also been mentioned in debates by other majority parties, perhaps not all of them, but if I add up everything, it is an important matter. With regard to taxation on consumption, there are possibilities, such as VAT. No one says in writing exactly what it's supposed to be like. Although the highest tax rate is 21 %, the average is actually 11 %. There are therefore possibilities, given the reduced rates and exemptions, to tax consumption, which is particularly low in Belgium. Of the 28 countries, Belgium is 24th in that area. So there are possibilities, but I will not comment on the formula. The same applies to the environment. I believe that excise duties on diesel are a possibility. In addition to competitiveness, the justice agenda is of course important for CD&V. CD&V is for fair taxation. Yesterday, the OECD expressed the view that, in addition to environmental taxes and consumer taxes, property tax revenues are an important way of financing the tax shift. They are also important in order to achieve fair taxation. All kinds of slopes are possible, Mr Calvo. The High Council of Finance has launched a dual tax, with a uniform tax on savings both on income and on capital gains. The figure is 25%. Our group does not insist on such figures. In any case, a tax on property income and a uniform tax on movable and immovable property must be able to ensure a fairer taxation. Ladies and gentlemen, you cannot claim that no important measures have been taken in the coalition agreement. You met last night, even until 8:00 this morning. The government has taken some very important measures. We can see today that in the budget, 1.4% of GNP has been restored. This means that the government agreement, for 2016 alone, has found 6 billion. CD&V has always said that there is a problem, both of competitiveness and of justice without solidarity, and the government has also promised this in the social agreement, Mrs Temmerman. There it has been said that measures will be taken for 2015-2016 with effects on the tax shift. The government is negotiating on this at the moment. I'm not in a game of blackbirds or blaming each other. After the debate on Sunday in the Seventh Day, it became tout le monde il est beau, tout le monde il est gentil and we also stick to it. It is important to shape competitiveness and fair taxation in the coming weeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip055x.u14	Mr Van Rompuy, through your speech, I take note of the fact that you disagree not only with your coalition partners on whether a tax shift should be budget neutral or based on savings, but also on where the reduction of labour costs should be located. Your coalition partners are convinced that this must be done on the workers' and employers' side. If I have understood you correctly, you say that this should only be done on the employers' side.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip055x.u15	No, I mentioned the two. Patronial contributions and employee contributions with a difference between gross and net earnings for the fall in unemployment.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip055x.u16	Then there's one less disagreement in the bickering cabinet and that's a positive thing. If you are suggesting that we are challenging the substance of the measures in the coalition agreement, then you are wrong. I did not say at all that you have taken insignificant, small measures. I have tried to demonstrate, as has been pointed out several times by our group, that it is firm, but that the balance is wrong. In fact, you are well aware of this majority when it comes to families, ordinary people, people who work and who are already struggling. You didn't hold back there. I repeat the figure: EUR 1.5 billion savings in social security, this year alone. On the other hand, when it comes to strong shoulders, about which economists and people from www.movement.net write books full, people who are far from and close to you, the figures are marginal in this budgetary control. The caiman tax and the diamond tax provide marginal figures, compared to the savings you make in social security. You've done a lot of work. There's no doubt about that. You have decided on important measures, but these are not just measures. You haven't found a balance. That's the big problem of this government. In doing so, she not only orders social imbalances, but also flicks the economic relance.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip055x.u17	This discussion will continue in the next few weeks. The Cayman tax will pay EUR 450 million in the long term. That was approved yesterday by Mr Vanvelthoven in committee. The caiman tax will pay half a billion euros. We are not alone in this. We are supported by the sp.a. The diamond tax brings in more than ever before. That'll triple. So measures have been taken. It is clear, Mr Calvo, that in the tax shift we also demand a higher contribution from the high capacities. I do not wish to comment on the formulas. Mr Calvo, you are always talking about figures. The major criticism of the government programme was that 80% of the income was saved and 20% of the income was saved. I brought the lyrics. You want to turn that around. You want EUR 8 billion in the next few years, including EUR 3.5 billion in higher incomes. What's a higher income? That's all homeowners, too. Everyone who owns a property has a capacity of more than 250 000 euros. In your programme, anyone with a capital of more than 250 000 euros, including their own house, will be taxed. So you want everyone in Flanders who's taxing a house. In this way, I can also get EUR 3.5 billion. You always say that this programme is not serious. You always ask for numbers. I've been looking at your numbers. Green wants to increase the tax by EUR 8.5 billion over the next few years in order to achieve a balanced budget. Mr Gilkinet, I have shown you the figures. It's written down in black and white. I'll come to my decision. I think we are moving towards a balance in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip055x.u18	Mr Van Rompuy, you often have bold words that stand out from the majority who, in tax matters, have not yet proved to us that they want to improve our system so that those you call "speculators" or "fraudors" can actually contribute. I really encourage you to succeed with this government, by weighing your weight in this tax shift that allows tax transfer, thereby improving working conditions in our country as well as the ability to create jobs. Since you are a fundamentally critical and, at times, intellectually honest person – you are not on the issue that you have addressed with regard to the tax model that we are defending in the context of the alternative budget that we have presented – still admit that the measures discussed yesterday in the programme law, which are reflected in terms of new budgetary revenues in this budgetary adjustment, are not satisfactory. I am thinking of the Cayman tax, which we discussed at length yesterday, of the enormous amounts that Belgians hold in offshore companies and in relation to which there will be no control on the origin of the funds or on what has happened in terms of non-taxation previously. There is also the fact that it is enough to be taxed abroad at 15 per cent in order not to have to pay any contribution in our country. You're going to create a new tax loophole. As far as the diamond sector is concerned, Mr Van Rompuy, do not tell me that you are defending – except that you are a member of a majority and that your party has had to grant this tax regime to others – the 0.55% of the diamond earners' income that will form the taxable base. How many economic sectors more useful for the future of our economy, more job-creating would they like to benefit from such a favourable regime? Why did you accept a tailor-made regime for the diamond sector that the FPS Finances tells us is particularly sensitive to fraud? Why not empower the FPS Finances to effectively control the sector and avoid fraud, rather than resigning and giving a truly preferential regime to a particular sector? On these elements, you are not credible. I'll explain it later. The government's fiscal adjustment does not correct an initial budget that is totally unbalanced in social, economic and environmental terms.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip055x.u19	Mr Van Rompuy, you say that you are afraid that the middle class will be affected by certain measures and by a certain sense of burdening the assets. The debate on a capital gain tax can be opened, but as you know, there are other solutions on the table. If you want to be sure that only the most wealthy and not the middle class are affected, you just have to tax the assets. There you can clearly set a mathematical limit on who you want to tax. I've heard that N-VA Open Vld hasn't yet, but that's still going to be agreed to support a measure that would only affect the 1% to 2% richest. I'm sure CD&V would follow. Mr Van Rompuy, at the beginning of this year there was talk of introducing a certain capital tax in Belgium, possibly in the tax shift. Is that measure still on the table? Is it going to be applied or not? Are you prepared to take a parliamentary initiative to have a quick debate on capital taxes in the context of a tax shift in committee? As you know, we have tabled a proposal from the Labour Party. This is, of course, entirely under discussion, but it contains very concrete measures that could bring us between EUR 7 billion and EUR 8 billion with a small capital tax of 2% to 3%, Mr Van Rompuy, out of 1% of the richest. I think CD&V could support such a cool proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip055x.u20	Mr President, for some parties it will never be enough, not for Green, certainly not for PVDA and others. We know that. As far as we are concerned, there have been a lot of valid moves in the coalition agreement and also in budgetary control towards fair taxation. Think of what Mr Van Rompuy has quoted, namely carat tax and caiman tax. Colleagues, a number of years ago it was never considered possible for a tax shift to be effectively negotiated. Again, this is the first government to put tax shift and burden shifting on the agenda with more justice. It is not a government with socialists or greens, but it is this government that has put the tax shift on the agenda, which is currently under negotiation. To say that not enough is being done to produce a balanced budget and a balanced package is too harsh. There are already additional measures in budgetary control. Think of the carat tax and the cayman tax, which increased the revenue side. The balance has been clearly taken into account, but also justice has been taken into account. However, we know that it will never be enough for some parties.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip055x.u21	Mrs Smaers and Mr Van Rompuy, I must point out to you that this is the first government to organise a tax shift. The previous government, the Di Rupo government, has begun to do so. We wanted to go much further and realize a much bigger tax shift. Among other things, your party and Open Vld stopped that at the time. It is easy to say now that you are going for the big tax shift without the socialists. Mrs Smaers, you would have been much further if you had supported our proposals in the previous government. By the way, the caiman tax is almost a copy! A few things have been omitted, which is very unfortunate, and which makes the caiman tax give birth to a caiman with small teeth instead of large. The Cayman tax was a proposal from the previous government that was not passed on, among other things by you and other parties. So spare me any statements as if things would be better now without the socialists. With you and others, it used to be much harder. I can even tell that Mr Van Biesen is right. Next, Mrs Smaers, mention the carat tax as an example of a fair tax or a tax shift, that goes without saying. Either you haven't read it, or you haven't read the papers, or you're not in good faith, which I don't think you are. The carat tax is a gift. Members of your coalition have said so in the committee and in the newspaper. Carat tax is not an example of a fair tax. Mr Van Rompuy, it is a pity that you are now arguing for a real tax shift. How many times have we heard this? First, the tax shift came before the budget, then together with the budget and then just before the summer, even though there are doubts about it. CD&V is always in favour of this, and that is a credit to you. You will also have our absolute support in this respect. Only we don't see the tax shift. Why not? Because your coalition partners don't want to go. I am sorry, Mrs Smaers, but with the Socialists this would have been much easier.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip055x.u22	Mrs Smaers, you say there are parties for which it is never enough. I dispute that. Too quickly being satisfied in politics is not a good idea either. That is the problem of your group, being quickly satisfied.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip055x.u23	Mr Calvo, you are also very pleased.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip055x.u24	I'll be happy soon, too? You must agree, because it is difficult to follow with two speakers at the same time. Mrs Smaers tells me that it is never enough and you say that I am quickly satisfied. There is a working group at CD&V, but put that on the agenda and agree. Mr Van Rompuy, you say you have the figures and you are referring to the Green proposal. Well, I'll get you our proposal on capital tax.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip055x.u25	I would indeed like you to deliver this to all Members of this House, along with your calculations, to see how you can achieve the 8.3 billion in tax increases. I invite you to share this information, because we have still not seen it; we have only read about it in the newspapers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip055x.u26	I don't have a problem with that. Mr President, if Mr Van Rompuy insists on this, I suggest that we distribute our alternative budget and our proposal on asset tax to the banks. Our proposal on capital tax is the largest tax reduction for the middle class that has ever been in this country. You quote the figure of EUR 250 000, but what are we doing in that system, Mr Van Rompuy? All existing power taxes go on the shovel. A clear, transparent system, in which one is exempted up to the median power and from then on begins to contribute. For 75% of people, this means a reduction in charges. I would be delighted to deliver that proposal to the CD&V working group and, if necessary, to distribute it to all banks. Next, your concern for the middle class is incredibly hypocritical, Mr Van Rompuy. You join in installing and maintaining the World Championship burdening ordinary people. You have already decided with this government a series of tax increases for ordinary people, just as you have on the other side. The index jump is a tax increase for ordinary people. Removing the pension bonus is a tax increase for ordinary people. Hurting part-time workers? A tax increase for ordinary people. The energy bill? A tax increase for ordinary people. The SNCB? A tax increase for ordinary people. Your concern for ordinary people is quite hypocritical. Yesterday, we were at the top of our list. Mr Van Overtveldt, who does not leave a chance to say that the Greeks must do their bit, made a plea yesterday for empathy with the big banks. He thinks the banks have contributed enough now.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip055x.u27	Is this about the bank charge? You weren't even there. You didn't hear what was said. There has been very little criticism from your group.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip055x.u28	Can this government's fiscal vision be made even clearer than that? Mr Van Overtveldt, who has raised taxes on ordinary people and who is standing here every week with incredible conviction to kick the Greek people's conscience, dares to come here in this House and say that we must stop talking to the banks because their limits have been reached. I find that a misplaced form of empathy. Our priorities are elsewhere. Our proportions are different. And with us there is a balance, Mr Van Rompuy.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip055x.u29	We are having a very interesting debate on budgetary adjustment. Mr. Van Rompuy has indeed slipped on some related topics. That's his right. That's very good. But where is the Minister of Finance?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip055x.u30	I have been told that a Eurogroup meeting is being held for the time being.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip055x.u31	Can we hope to have the Minister of Finance with us today? We have a number of questions to ask him, questions to ask him. I cannot imagine that we are holding a debate on budgetary adjustment without the presence of the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip055x.u32	I do not know the agenda of the Eurogroup, but I have asked that the Minister of Finance join us as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip055x.u33	Thank you, Mr. President. I hope that your request will be acted upon. However, if we were to find out that he is still absent, you will understand that I will insist again.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip055x.u34	Mr Van Rompuy, I welcome the openness with which you say to Green that they should copy their proposal and that it can then be discussed. Let's take it a little bit wider. You're working on the tax shift now. I believe that all parties have good proposals on tax shift. We also have a series of proposals. You're chairman of the Finance Commission. I propose that we hold a debate there and see what is most just. That's your starting point, isn't it? Your starting point is: more justice in taxes. Well, let's see who has proposals that will increase equity in taxes and take into account revenues. I think this is a wonderful proposal. You have everything in your hands, and we will give you our full support.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip055x.u35	You shouldn't be impatient, Mrs. Temmerman. In a month and a half, there will be a proposal from the government about a tax shift in the following years. We shall certainly discuss this in detail in committee. I'd like to say a few more things. If, in addition to the caiman tax you have now approved, a diamond tax for the sp.a was so vital, why didn't you make a point under the Di Rupo government? Now you say that CD&V and Open Vld did not want that, but that sp.a was in favour of it. Were you so attached to that Di Rupo government? Mr Vanvelthoven, if the diamond tax was so important, why did John Crombez sit for two and a half years without doing anything about it? Why? Now you're in opposition, but when you were in power, I never had anything on that...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip055x.u36	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip055x.u37	If that was important, you should have said so, Mrs. Temmerman. CD&V now clearly says that in the next few weeks there should be a tax shift with the different components I mentioned, and that this is important to add to the austerity policy that has been pursued in the following years. We say this clearly and openly. However, I have never heard that said by the sp.a when it comes to the caiman tax or the diamond tax. That's the hypocrisy of the sp.a. I have listened a great deal in committee, but from your group I have not heard at any time any alternative to the reorganisation policy that needs to be pursued in order to restore our competitiveness. I have not yet heard a single coherent proposal on this, nor has Mr Calvo, who really urgently needs to take a course in the budget. You are constantly debiting figures here without knowing what this is about, Mr Calvo. The banks pay an additional 100 million, but they are already paying 1.9 billion euros. That 100 million has been added to the budget and has nothing to do with the general contribution of the banks. Read the report, it's on the banks. The Minister of Finance has said that they are contributing 1.9 billion.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip055x.u38	Mr Van Rompuy, I simply do not understand some things. I must admit that you are always present on the committee, but what you have just said does not look like anything. The fact that the CD&V group applauds for this shows that they really don't know what they're doing. As for the caiman tax...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip055x.u39	You approved it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip055x.u40	No, more so, we wrote the caiman tax in the previous government.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip055x.u41	That's good.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip055x.u42	That's very good.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip055x.u43	That's a good thing. (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip055x.u44	Am I allowed to pronounce or not? We wrote the caiman tax, under the previous government, but it didn't get through at the time. We retabled it in Parliament in December. We tried to get it approved during the budget. You voted it out. Then the whole explanatory statement has been rewritten, but the caiman tax has been taken over and copied by your government. So it goes without saying that we approve it. So please do not say that we do not come up with alternatives. We have come with the caiman tax for the day, under John Crombez. We shall approve them, too. As far as the diamond tax is concerned, we opposed it in the previous government, because it was your Minister, Mr Koen Geens, who wanted to come to Parliament with it. Why did we oppose it? For the same reason as today: the diamond tax is a purely favorable regime, which the sector itself requires. Tax experts, the Council of State, the Court of Auditors, all believe that this is a favour regime, a support regime that may not pass the European test, even if we wait for it. We have opposed this. With Mr Crombez and the previous government, we have dealt with tax fraud in the diamond sector. We did! In one file, there was a yield of 150 million, while this government now boasts that 50 million more is required for the whole sector. The answer to your question as to why Mr Crombez did not introduce the diamond tax is clear and clear. We are against this because it is a safe haven for one of the most fraud-prone sectors in this country. You choose to give them a favor regime that they themselves ask for. As I said yesterday in committee, I have never seen a tax increase, which you believe is the diamond tax, which means that this sector will attract more investment, offer more jobs and that even diamonds will come back from Dubai. You are making a fool of yourself with that reasoning! So far as the previous government is concerned. You're also talking about alternatives. Well, we have proposed not only the Cayman tax but also another alternative, in particular the added value tax on shares. The same thing happened in December. Who voted away our alternative yesterday? CD&V. So do not say that we are not proposing an alternative. You are constantly voting against the measures relating to fair taxation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip055x.u45	Mr President, I shall tell Mr. Van Rompuy that I prefer to read his blog rather than hear it in the gallery. I feel like we're dealing with Dr. Eric and mister Van Rompuy! There is something that I no longer understand in terms of the consistency of your speech. That being the case, we remember Mr. Van Biesen ordered you to table an amendment to put on paper your tax thinking which, according to him, was moving away from the government line. Today, you're making a return curve. What happened, Mr. Van Rompuy? Stay who you are! Someone who has a freedom of speech, who brings added value to the debate and who gives a somewhat more social tone but who, today, clearly no longer receives the support of his group, and certainly of the government, and who therefore finds himself a little isolated and here expresses his unease through an act of political contrition, which is quite incomprehensible!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip055x.u46	Mr Van Rompuy, it may not have been exactly in those words, but you were wondering why Mr Crombez did not resign when he could not get through a number of things. I will ask you a question and I would like you to answer it yes or no, for the sake of clarity, for the simplicity of the debate we are all in favour of. CD&V advocates a tax shift at the start of this government. You just said it would be here in a month. Well, if the tax shift doesn't come, will you resign from the government? The tax shift that you consider so important, the justice that you consider so important, which is all about, which you claim we have not sufficiently defended, which you claim we should have pushed harder on the table in the previous government. Will your party resign if it isn't there in a month?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip055x.u47	On the tax shift, both our party chairman, Mr Beke, and the Deputy Prime Minister, Mr Peeters, Minister Geens and our group leader, Mr Verherstraeten, have clearly stated what its contours must be, with elements of competitiveness and justice. There must be, among other things, a capital gain tax in one form or another I absolutely do not pin myself on any formula.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. That was clearly explained and I am not going to repeat it twenty times. As for Mr Laaouej, you can read the report. What I said here is perfect, as I said in committee. Of course, a number of people give a polemical interpretation of that. When Mr Van Biesen speaks, he speaks as an Open Vldüner. The debate is still under way. With the end result of that tax shift we will see who has explained what and what has been obtained. This government is nine months away. As you can see, it is fully on track in terms of budgetary consolidation, and there are now prospects for 90 000 jobs in the coming months. Real disposable household income will suffer from the index jump in 2017, but according to the Governor of the National Bank, Mr Smets, purchasing power will increase again from 2018. Mr Smets says that if we add up the reduction in charges, the increase in flat-rate professional costs and the index jump, the real disposable household income will continue to increase from 2018, as it has increased this year. This year, real disposable household income has increased. So it wasn't a social horror year 2015 but a year in which purchasing power was stimulated. Today we read that labour costs, including you, also in the Di Rupo government... We are in favour of continuity. We have also contributed to this. We have prospects for more economic growth in the future, which will be important for jobs and jobs.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip055x.u48	Mr Vanvelthoven, you seem to have a number of questions about carat tax, which deserve an answer. You are wondering, for example, how a tax increase will lead to economic growth. In the past, after 25 years of socialism, we have indeed found that this is not usually possible. In this case, however, there is an anomaly. I know you're a socialist fan of high taxes. Entrepreneurs aren't usually. There is only one thing that entrepreneurs think is worse than high taxes, and that is insecure taxes. With the carat tax we will ensure security, investment security, and that will result in economic growth and higher taxes, even to the extent that next year there will be more income from taxes on diamonds alone than in the entire Di Rupo legislature. I think that's a strong achievement.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip055x.u49	I have to say that Mr Van Rompuy's answer was not yes or no, but on the one hand and on the other. Mr Van Rompuy, you say it is also partly because of Di Rupo. The VBO says: 'It is mainly thanks to the measures taken by the previous government.' This is not, therefore, a coincidence, but, above all, thanks to the measures taken by the previous government, that workers are now cheaper.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip055x.u50	A brief reaction. It gets a little faint to say that socialists would be in favour of high taxes. That's really lame. I have just heard my group leader say that we are the best learners in the whole OECD class when it comes to the reduction of wages. This has nothing to do with the results of this government, because they are not yet there, but only with the results of a government led by socialists. That's the correct analysis of the case. All the bullshit you come here to tell me at every speech is getting a little childish. Secondly, employers do indeed need security. I couldn't agree more. I wonder, then, when you opt for a flat-rate budget of profits, why you do not do so for all employers, but only for one sector, namely the diamond sector. That's what I'm wondering. Why do you do that? You are doing this because you want to give the diamond sector another assurance, namely that the diamonds will no longer be investigated by the BBI. [[Objection]] Yes, there will no longer be any discussion about profit. Today they flee abroad, to hide their profits, which are taxable here as for everyone. That's a system that's going to expire now. They no longer have to go abroad. You have now arranged something nice for the diamond sector. I repeat, on the revenue side, that under the previous government, one dossier, in dealing with tax fraud, has yielded EUR 150 million, which is a lot more than what you think you are getting from the whole sector. However, you are abolishing the fight against tax fraud in the diamond sector. We were in favour of this.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip055x.u51	Mrs Temmerman, I have, of course, explained that the result of labour costs, which are the lowest in the OECD as a whole, is the responsibility of the Di Rupo Government. After all, the index jump comes only in 2017. The reduction in social contributions will take place in 2016. So that's obvious. However, I have indicated something positive about the Di Rupo Government. I also did so in connection with the reorganisation, when I said that the Di Rupo government has been as well-sanitated as the Michael government. I therefore call for continuity here. You should therefore have appreciated my statement.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip055x.u52	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would have liked to ask a number of questions to the Minister of Finance, but in view of his absence, I will ask you, Mr Budget Minister. A few months ago, we told you, from the top of this rostrum, how weak the 2015 budget was, how badly linked it was and, above all, how disastrous it was in social and economic terms. The budget adjustment you are submitting to us is placed on the same sign. You are pursuing your business of mystification of public opinion. This practice is particularly serious at a time when the country needs economic recovery, a clear vision in the management of public finances and, above all, cohesion federalism. To get out of the fiscal year of adjustment, however, you do not hesitate to play the blow and break what should be the cornerstone of our institutional model: the concertation between the different levels of power. Let's not turn around the pot! You have squandered the Regions by 750 million euros in addition to the tax on natural persons by taking advantage – as has been explained at length – of the obscure attitude of the tax administration, which, without warning and without giving any explanation, has changed its parameters of calculation, a change in which the tax on natural persons State, between the initial budget 2015 and the adjustment of the said budget, would have fallen by 3 billion euros. In other words, there would be a reduction of €3 billion in the tax on natural persons. Excuse me for a minute. For the Regions, this represents a dry loss of 750 million euros, an amount whose false gain has enabled you to avoid taking on your responsibilities and presenting yourself here with a real, serious and visionary budgetary adjustment. There is a form of irresponsibility in the way you have worked.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip055x.u53	Mr Laaouej, you are challenging these figures, but they have been confirmed by the Court of Auditors in a few respects. Why do you say then that we're making some kind of hold-up? That's not true!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip055x.u54	Mr Piedboeuf, thank you for bringing water to my mill. Firstly, the Court of Auditors declared itself unable to verify the parameters of the tax administration's calculation because it did not have such parameters. Secondly, the Court of Auditors made a macroeconomic estimate for 2015 of personal tax revenues. On this basis, Mr Piedboeuf, if you want to be consistent and if you keep the macro-economic estimates of the Court of Auditors (which are not the revenue actually recorded, collected), you should admit that the income from the tax of natural persons is reduced by 3 billion, of which 750 million for the Regions and the balance for the Federal State. Consequently, the Minister of Budget should have reduced the tax on natural persons by more than 2 billion in his revenue estimates. I would like to follow the Court of Auditors, Mr Piedboeuf, but then we must follow it completely and not partially!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip055x.u55	Mr President, the point precisely of the Court of Auditors' work is that, by another procedure, it has reached the same figures.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip055x.u56	I'm ready to follow you, Mr. Piedboeuf. If we accept the figures of the Court of Auditors, we must then ask Mr Jamar to reduce the tax revenues of the federal natural persons by more than 2 billion. Are you ready to do it? It is not the Court of Auditors when it suits you, and not the Court of Auditors when it does not help you; it is the Court of Auditors in both cases! That's how it happens. We need to be consistent. So I'm going back to where I was. One form of irresponsibility is the way in which you have concocted this budgetary adjustment. You took the words out of my mouth. Indeed, the federal budget does not take into account a decrease in the revenue from personal tax, whereas with the transfer to the Regions, it imposes this decrease. As I said and I repeat, you sat down on the concertation and practiced the policy of fait accompli. It is not a fault for the Regions to have asked for information and consultation. Nothing has been done about it: at this stage, the tax administration, yours, has refused to give the elements allowing the Regions to check whether the amounts transferred corresponded to the reality of the amounts collected by the federal state. You are also irresponsible, because you do not understand this adage, if it is not a proverb: well misconceived never benefits. Indeed, the funding law provides that within two years, the federal and the regions will have to meet together to make the accounts. The federal state, as well as the tax administration, accepts in half a word that it will have to return the 750 million euros to the Regions – the 750 million you deprive them of today. For a very simple reason: whatever the calculations provided by the tax administration, there is nothing to explain a decrease of three billion euros in a few months, between the time you made your initial 2015 budget and the time you prepared the 2015 adjustment. Three billion euros do not disappear like this in nature in such a short time, because your administration decides to review its parameters. That's where you're stuck, as long as you have to return those amounts to the Regions. What proves, moreover, that you do not believe in it yourself is the use you make of these 750 million. If, really, you were sure of yourself, you would have allocated them in full to the consolidation of the structural balance. You didn't do it; you preferred to be careful – I recognize it – because you weren't certain of your numbers and you were the first to be surprised. But at some point, you will have to return to the Regions what you have taken from them.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip055x.u57	I'll answer you later! Sir became minister, so I'm not talking!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip055x.u58	Mr Jamar, you will have the opportunity to respond to what I have just said.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip055x.u59	I don't hear any reaction. I'll react later or Mr. Van Overtveldt, who will join us after the Eurogroup. This subject is more of his competence. I'm just saying that your remarks are incorrect. Technically, there is a non-structural character – as you know perfectly well – linked to a sum of 190 million over the three years. It is the application of the funding law in the caution that we have displayed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip055x.u60	Not at all! I'll come back!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip055x.u61	But read the funding law! You are obviously smarter than the Court of Auditors and the legislator...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip055x.u62	The Court of Auditors did not address the problem of the structural nature of the 750 million, because it refused to take sides either for the thesis of the Regions or for the thesis of the federal government, arguing that it did not have access to all the information. Therefore, it develops an alternative method known as macroeconomics. Mr. Piedboeuf tells us that they arrive at the same figure as the federal government. Therefore, there is no problem. Let the federal government cut its personal tax revenues by two billion dollars! This would not help you; you would have a supplementary deficit of two billion that you should have filled! I can understand that you prefer to cast a modest veil on this aspect of the Court of Auditors' reasoning. But in this case, we have to do it completely. I repeat that you are acting irresponsibly, because you are postponing an effort on others that you will, in any case, have to make in the very short term. I come to the question of whether or not this unannounced gain of 750 million is structural. The details can be found on page 13 of the general presentation. I am surprised, Mr Jamar, that you were offended today by my remarks, because this is a debate that I am trying to have with you in committee, where I announced the colour by contesting the fact that, for part and even for one euro, you did not have to enter these 750 million in improvement of the structural balance. Therefore, I will be of good importance by reading in extenso this small passage from page 13 of the general presentation. You explain to us that only $375 million out of the 750 was taken into account for the improvement of the balance. In other words, you cut the pear in half and you say: out of 750 million, I take 375 and charge them on the improvement of the balance. We agree, 50% left, 375 million left. What are you doing? Of the remaining 375 million, you take 185 million and make it a reserve. There's still 190 million left that you see as a non-structural gain. What should be deduced from this, Mr. Jamar? I would like to hear from you earlier, since at this stage we have not yet had any clarifications. Can you tell us, of the 750 million unannounced earnings, how much are allocated to improving the structural balance?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip055x.u63	I think Mr Jamar and the government are about to negotiate with the Regions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip055x.u64	Good news. I hope Mr. Jamar can confirm that. And if, in the meantime, you can finally adopt this royal decree which will have to fix the method of determining the state tax and, consequently, the regional additions, you will find me greatly satisfied but unfortunately I do not share the same optimism as Mr Cheron. We'll see. When you transmit your copy to Europe, what will it look at? It will look, not only but certainly, at the evolution of your structural balance. This seems to me to be the most important thing in what Europe controls, as well as the public debt that you have seen the explosion – not necessarily because of you – due to changes in accounting to say it simply. When I read page 13 of the general presentation, he seems to understand...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip055x.u65	Mr Laaouej, on page 23 of the report, Mr Moens says that half of the 750 million lower spill-over is provided for a buffer of 185 million, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, 190 million is regarded as a non-structural windfall. That is where the budget is very cautious. On this point, therefore, the budget is certainly prudent, as the Court of Auditors says. The government is careful.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip055x.u66	Mr Van Rompuy, what is your addition? In what you have just read, of the 750 million, how many are allocated to improving the structural balance? If you tell me zero, it's zero, 100 million, it's 100 million. In this section of the general presentation, how much is allocated to improving the structural balance?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip055x.u67	Mr President, if you agree, I can answer right away. The 750 million, I told you in committee, are the starting point. You're withdrawing $190 million, according to the funding law, for three years. This is imposed on us as a matter of legal prudence. Non-structural character. 750 minus 190 equals 560, which are recognised in structural terms for Europe. The government, in its great prudence, has subtracted 185 million reserves. So there's 375 million left.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip055x.u68	No, Mr. Jamar. The $185 million allocated to the reserve is one thing. But I'm talking about improving the structural balance. Are these 185 million contributing to the improvement of the structural balance, or not?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip055x.u69	There's only 190 million...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip055x.u70	There are therefore only 190 million out of the 750 million that contribute to the improvement of the structural balance. I finally have my answer!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip055x.u71	There's only 190 million people who don't contribute to it. You said you didn't.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip055x.u72	Yes, that's it. Of the 750 million, 190 million do not contribute to the improvement of the structural balance. The rest improves the structural balance. In my view, there is no euro out of the 750 million, which should contribute to the improvement of the structural balance, because they are based on a dispute between the federal level and the Regions, which concerns the estimation of the tax revenues from regional additions to the PPI which will have to be transferred to the Regions. That's where you're making a budgetary mistake. That is where, contrary to what Mr. Van Rompuy, you are not careful: at some point, these 750 million, you may – we certainly say – have to send them back to the Regions. Not a single euro should have been used to improve the structural balance. In my opinion, you artificially inflated the improvement in the structural balance. I think that from this point of view, you are making a mistake not only in the budget but also in the politics, because you are presenting us with a budget that is artificially improved when you know very well that these 750 million are currently based on an unexhausted dispute, a dispute that still does not find a solution between you and the Regions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip055x.u73	Mr Laaouej, I understand that you are wondering whether they are structural or non-structural. What was the basis of the budget, however? The essence of the budgetary change is an improvement in the structural balance. All the reports on this budget and on this budget change say that our country's structural balance improves by 0.65%. This is more than what Europe had asked us to do in June 2014, and it is more than what the High Council of Finance recommended in its recent opinion. In other words, whether a small accent on the left or right should be counted for you or for someone else in the room, whether or not the structural balance should be improved, does not matter. The general line of the budgetary change and the totality of the budget is an improvement in the structural balance. Everyone says the structural balance improves by at least 0.65%.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip055x.u74	Mr Van Biesen, you are a great specialist in the sinking of open doors! I can only agree with what you just said. Indeed, it is good to improve the structural balance. That's what we're asked to do. That is what Europe is asking for. That is what needs to be done because of the need to get out of debt, of course! What I'm telling you is that the figures you are presenting on the improvement of the structural balance, thanks to the 750 million mark, are not on the way. That's all I'm telling you. Now you say the opposite. We'll see later. Indeed, you will have to cross a number of caps. First of all, there is the course of Europe's examination of our accounts. There is also ongoing litigation with the Regions. And you will be caught up in the facts because at some point, we will have the rights recognized, we will have the revenues of the personal tax (IPP) as they enter the state funds, and at that time we will see if, indeed, the IPP in a few months has decreased by 3 billion. Can you imagine yourself? Three billion that disappear like that, in a few months! Do you really think you're not gonna be caught up at some point? Do you really think there's someone who believes in the figures you put forward at the time of the fiscal adjustment and who comes from the fact that the tax administration has changed its sampling? It had initially taken 300,000 taxpayers to take only 30,000, without wishing to give any information to its counterparts in the Regions, who, however, insisted on doing so. Do you really think you're not going to be caught up in the facts? I do not share your optimism, you will understand it. But most importantly, at some point, what we're talking about here is that by artificially improving your structural balance, yes, you're postponing and sending the hot potato back to the Regions. It's one thing. Of course, you don't care. But above all, you are coming to this Parliament with a budget that is not on the way. And this is where we have to take responsibility, not in front of the regional parliaments!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip055x.u75	You disappoint me, Mr Laaouej. You are the man of the numbers and I have great respect for your work on the Finance Committee. You are now talking about figures that you have negotiated with. You were one of the major negotiators of the Finance Act, as Mr Di Rupo's right-hand man. In that capacity, you have been involved. I'm totally behind that. The Court of Auditors has said that there could be a difference of interpretation of EUR 124 million with regard to the EUR 750 million, and there may be differences of opinion depending on the hypothesis. You are yourself the author of the Finance Act. We have received a very complex explanation from Mr De Vis of the Court of Auditors, who knows the subject best, together with Mrs Spinnoy. I think you're the third person to know the law well. You're the Dr. Jekyll & Mr. Hyde, which you blamed me for. The PS has always warned in the past that the federal government needed sufficient funding to ensure that social security could continue to be paid at the federal level. Everyone, including the regions of the region, had to contribute to a general reorganisation of public finances. Now the Finance Act is being applied. The Court of Auditors is talking about an interpretation difference of EUR 170 million and you have come to tell us that this is actually a way to make the region pay. In fact, you would like the federal level to take that on its own account, whereas the funding law does not provide for that at all. You are talking about a structural balance. I am glad that you are concerned that Belgium's structural balance is going down. In your opinion, the European standard of 3% is far too high because it forces people to clean up, leading to a massacre. You've already distanced yourself from that. Now you express your great concern about 190 million euros, or 0.04% of gross national product. Mr Van Biesen has just said that we have made an effort of 0.65%. Everyone wishes us luck that we are on the right track in structural terms. Now there is a hypothesis of 0.03 % or 0.04 %. The Finance Act, as you know, is a prognosis law, because we will not know the results until we have the final figures. You are now proclaiming party politics here, because you do not want Magnette and the PS to have to save in Wallonia, but those savings are made at federal level, which you do not control. I believe that you, as co-author of the Finance Act and as a member of a party that has always been concerned about the federal level, are almost at the same level as the N-VA back then when she was happy in the opposition.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip055x.u76	Mr. President, I'm still listening to Mr. Van Rompuy with great interest; Mr. Van Biesen, a little less. I would not like to claim to reconcile the CD&V with the PS. It's too difficult a task I'm not going to do. Mr Van Rompuy, you take pleasure in attacking the PS, but I am not sure that it is the funding law that is at issue here. The funding law is complex and therefore needs the federal level to provide the core PPI figure. And it must be given by the SPF. There is a dispute here, that no one really settles. One day, the Institute of National Accounts (ICN) will give its version. The Court of Auditors cannot give this figure because it does not have access to it. The ICN may one day reconcile the truth with the truth. Today, the financing law provides that a royal decree must be drawn up in consultation with the Regions. Let us acknowledge that this royal decree, unless this morning's Monitor has published it, does not exist. The fact that it is the special financing law that causes this is intellectually incorrect. In addition, Mr.Laaouej stressed the issue of the $3 billion gap following the 2012 estimate of what the PPI would provide in 2015. As we do not have access to the figures, we are entitled to try to understand why this gap is valid for the Regions and not for the federal level. That's a little amazing! In addition, does the adjusted budget improve the structural balance? Yes. Mr Laaouej's criticism, if I have understood it correctly, is not to say that we do not improve the structural balance but that we do it by building on the sand, since there will be a challenge tomorrow. I come to another element. What has been put in reserve by Mr Jamar and the government, namely EUR 190 million, is not already the admission that he realizes that at some point it will really be necessary to negotiate with the Regions. We can tell a lot of stories, but there has been no negotiation. The federal government seized a boon, thanks to figures from the SPF and the fact that there was an insider legal offence, namely that it had the information first. He said he was going to do a bad political blow to the Regions in addition to a good blow for the federal level. That's the reality! That's what you had to say.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip055x.u77	Mr President, I want to put things back in their place. Firstly, with regard to the remarks made by the Court of Auditors and your propensity to accuse us of taking only what suits us, I think the compliment is rather to return to you. In fact, when the Court of Auditors explains that precisely the calculations made on these 750 million could have been made differently but that by doing them differently, we get the same result to within 72 million, you no longer agree. What did we say during the parliamentary proceedings? We said that if that were to happen and the EUR 72 million had to be returned, they would be. Secondly, we have learned in committee that, pending an agreement, the advances made to the Regions remain the same. Thirdly, we have also learned that there has been consultation, discussion, but there has been a refusal to agree on a method of calculation that could lead to this famous royal decree. We're not gonna change things here. There was agreement, but no agreement was reached. We hope there will be one. I would also like to remind you of the calls for calm that have been made on several occasions by our Budget Minister. He himself explained that this pot, whether it comes to the federal or the regions, is still the money that can be used for the benefit of the population. So there is neither a winner nor a loser. There is, at some point, the need to reach an agreement. This agreement has not yet been reached. We can blame whoever we want, but we can't say that there was no will to have a deal. There have been several meetings on this subject. Finally, as we fire all the wood, obviously the distribution keys are provisional and, at one point, we will have to stop permanently. At that time, yes, we'll make the accounts. No one's contesting it. You estimate that, when we do the accounts, it will cost us 750 million euros. Excuse me, I don't see where you got this from. It's another story! Today, the Court of Auditors tells us that, on this very specific subject, if there is a difference, it may be 72 million. Therefore, if the government has decided, with great caution, to put a little more on the side, I do not see how it can be blamed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip055x.u78	I'll try to answer in order. Mrs Wilmès, we are at the heart of the problem. So I'll take the time to answer you. By the way, I thank Mr Cheron who really summed up the problem I was raising. Mr Van Rompuy, I too have a great deal of respect for you, even if you sometimes fluctuate, for obscure reasons, in the positions you adopt in committee, in plenary or on your blog. But that's your right, and I can't dispute it. However, when you talk to me about the 124 million that should be handed over by the federal government to the Regions, you're talking about a whole other problem that I'm going to go back to. You are aiming for what the federal government owes to the Communities and the Regions, 124 million more because the parameters of growth and inflation have changed. What represents a gain for the federal government should also be a gain for the Communities and Regions. In this respect, the Court of Auditors advises the federal government to increase transfers on things that have nothing to do with the points we are talking about here, namely regional additions. I was speaking here to Mr. Van Rompuy, who welcomed my knowledge of the financing law. Very sincerely, we were tens of us working on this text. As Mr Cheron said, what is at issue here is not the law of financing, it is the calculations of the tax administration, no more or less! That is why – I will now bounce back on Mrs Wilmès' remarks – the Court of Auditors says one very simple thing: "I cannot arbitrate because I do not have the elements of calculation of the tax administration. So I'm going to do what the monitoring committee is doing, and the FPS Finance's research and documentation department is also doing and, from time to time, one or the other official, i.e. a macroeconomic estimate of what tax revenues will be (not what they are) in 2015." This is therefore an anticipation. Mrs Wilmès, as I said earlier, I have not changed my opinion. If you refer to the Court of Auditors, explain why the federal government does not reduce its revenue by 2 billion on the basis of the Court of Auditors' macroeconomic estimates! That's my answer to your legitimate question. In this respect, the Court of Auditors did not reply. Why? Because she's simply not able to do it! However, I repeat, if you refer to the Court of Auditors' figures, it is also important to apply them at the time of the budgetary adjustment and to reduce the federal PPI by EUR 2 billion, which the government will obviously not do. It is claimed – Mr Van Rompuy – that the PS finally wants to impoverish the federal, in other words, complains that the Regions have been dispossessed of 750 million, while the PS is attached to social security. Of course he's attached to it! And that is why, in the negotiations on the sixth reform of the state on fiscal autonomy, we have ensured that the federal state is not impoverished. This was the whole question of the elasticity of the PPI, which increases faster than growth, it was the whole problem of what social security is largely backed up by the tax of natural persons, it is also the desire not to paralyze the federal state in its possible ways of tax reform, in short a very complex subject. That is why we did not want to follow your partners today, who were in favour of a complete regionalisation of the PPI until, tomorrow, a complete regionalisation of social security is undoubtedly possible! But it is not a question of us being impoverished. It is a question of everyone being able to take responsibility in an honest framework, where we agree on how the figures are to be determined and if not, we must stick only to the figures set unilaterally by a tax administration, which refuses to open its books! Actually, we're being taken hostage. This applies both to the regions and to the federal government. Indeed, these 750 million, you will have to return them! We are taken hostage by a quarter of public servants, who have decided, unilaterally, or at the request of a cabinet, not to provide the figures. This is unacceptable! Of course, it is better to have a quarter of public servants than a quarter of generals, Mr Cheron, although we do not know what will be done tomorrow! In addition to this problem of 750 million, the Court of Auditors points out that, thanks to a positive change in the growth rate, from 1 to 1.2 %, the Federal State, in its adjustment, has been able to increase its tax revenues by 256 million. On this subject, we agree! This is an additional 256 million revenue for the federal government thanks to the growth rate of +0.2%. The Court of Auditors then warns that an increase in adjustment revenue for the Federal State also implies an increase in transfers to the Regions and the Communities, and that the change in inflation parameter should be taken into account. It then adds up and says that transfers to the Regions and the Communities must be increased by EUR 124 million. This is another debate, Mr Van Rompuy, and here I am waiting for the government. What has the government done to take account of this particular point made by the Court of Auditors, which I believe is based on undisputed considerations, which you have not contested? I'd like to hear from you and know how you're going to send those 124 million back to the Regions. It's a matter of consistency, Mr. Jamar.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip055x.u79	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip055x.u80	I do not disagree, Mr. Jamar, but today you are the Minister of Budget. The questions are therefore to you. Most certainly, the same questions were asked to your predecessors; they certainly answered them. I'm waiting for your answer today. If you don't want to answer, that's another problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip055x.u81	Mr Laaouej, a very small detail: you asked this question in committee and you were answered. We have told you that, since what is usually done – this year is no different from the others and what is done before – this figure which is not now contested will be dealt with when the balance is paid in Budget 2016. We answered that question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip055x.u82	Mrs Wilmès, thank you, but not all of our colleagues were present in the Finance Committee. You can answer that they only have to read the reports. Of course, each of us reads the reports of all the committees. I rest this question in plenary because I want to have an answer in plenary and because this 124 million problem is added to the 750 million problem. It is therefore necessary to have a comprehensive picture of exactly how much this amount should go to the Regions and the Communities, which, for the time being, is misleadingly improving the federal government's budgets. However, I am seeking further discussion on the issue of the funding law. Indeed, Mr. Jamar, a small point of information aimed at explaining to us where you are, particularly with regard to the preparation of the royal decree provided for by the special financing law, and to what we are going, would allow us, perhaps, to have prospects in the medium term, in the interests of all. Again in the context of the budget revenue, allow me to dwell, for a moment, on two or three aberrations which I have noted and which find their source in the comparison of the tables on pages 62 and 63 of the general statement and on which I have not yet received an answer, Mrs Wilmès. What does it appear when these tables are read, moreover, very interesting? The table on page 63 shows a rather dramatic change in corporate income tax revenue, in this case an increase in the order of 2.6 billion between 2014 and 2015, representing an increase in corporate income tax revenue of 21.9%. This is huge when we compare this percentage to the evolution of economic growth, which, according to the Federal Office of the Plan for 2015, is 1.2%, a figure retained by the government. How can this increase be explained? The explanation can be found on page 62 of the general presentation, but for an amount of $1.5 billion. Thus, there is a reduction in the cost of notional interest up to EUR 750 million. Why? Because OLO rates are falling. In doing so, mechanically, the risk capital deduction rate also decreases. We'll see at the autopsy whether this decrease is confirmed or not. The new measures decided by the Government are also discussed. We have talked about the 100 million banking tax, the 236 million liquidation bonus plus 236 million for the liquidation reserve, the BNB dividend measure and a range of other measures, i.e. 1.5 billion. 1.5 billion to justify this dramatic 2.6 billion change in corporate income tax revenues. So there is one billion left to justify. The question was asked of Mr. Van Overtveldt, who told me that this was the result of previous measures. I then asked him what measures he was talking about, but I did not get an answer. I would like us to clarify this mystery of an additional billion corporate income tax receipts. I would remind you that in 2014 it raised 12 billion. It seems to me legitimate to be able to understand the reason for this leap, not exponential, but rather quantum of this recipe. I'd like to try to help you understand. Perhaps it is because, under the Di Rupo government, notional interests have been drastically tightened and several large companies have been tapped by taxing their capital gains. I am also thinking of two or three other measures that have contributed to the improvement of corporate income tax revenue. Maybe. Mr. Gilkinet is doubting it, and I can understand it. Anyway, I'd like to know, Mr. Jamar, what's going on. For the 2.6 billion, you can explain the billion and a half more in terms of corporate tax. All right. There's a little over a billion left. Where does this money come from? You will understand that, for us, it is very important. Let us continue on the revenue side, where you announce new measures. Despite all your tricks in transferring to the regions, you still need new revenue to improve your structural balance. Here too, we will see that some of these measures have nothing to do with this improvement. First of all, I would like to make a point, which I think it is necessary to repeat here for the record. I am referring to the opinion of the Court of Auditors on your new measures, which in total amounts to EUR 538 million. It's not nothing. I quote: "In general, the Court of Auditors finds that the budgetary estimates of the various tax measures, such as the contribution of the diamond sector, the transparency tax, etc., are largely dependent on concrete implementing rules to be defined at a later stage and implementing decisions to be adapted. In this context, it is difficult to quantify or assess precisely what the budgetary impact will be." In the polite language of the Court of Auditors, it is very clear that the figures used for these new measures are muddy and uncertain. Let us continue reading the report of the Court of Auditors.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip055x.u83	Mr Laaouej, you have a way of interpreting things that will always surprise me. It's like when you called the Court of Auditors' report in the press. Although we were looking for the words you said in the Court of Auditors' report, we never found them. That's all right. What the Court of Auditors says, no one disputes. It's not abnormal. When you have a series of relatively marginal revenues relative to total revenues - M. Van Rompuy explained this to you earlier (108 billion revenue and 500 million) - that these depend on the way in which they are applied and that these rules of application on the ground are not yet known, we can only take into account the parameters we choose. There's nothing unusual about that. The other point that the Court of Auditors also put forward was that all the figures and parameters used had been well supported by the FPS Finance.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip055x.u84	Mr President, indeed, the arrangements for the various revenue which the Court of Auditors had difficulty evaluating are mainly contained in the programme law which we are finalising in the Finance Committee. Nevertheless, the public authority, when announcing in the context of a budgetary adjustment, revenue or new expenditure, must be able to justify it and provide the Court of Auditors, which is our financial arm, with credible figures and assessments. From the outset of the Court of Auditors' text, I personally asked the Minister of Finance about how he assessed the revenue associated with the carat tax. I have also done so in relation to the so-called transparency tax, Cayman. I have asked Mrs Sleurs, who has since lost her skills, about new revenue from tax evasion. And the least we can say is that it was everything but clear. We will have the debate here in plenary after having finished it in the Finance Committee on the programme law as such, but all the additional elements to this initial opinion of the Court of Auditors are in the same direction. The Council of State, for example with regard to the diamond tax, says: "Neither on the basis of the figures provided to us by the government, nor on the basis of the opinion of the Finance Inspectorate, we cannot assess whether the figures are credible. Is this not an illegal state aid scheme? What is the opinion of the European Commission?" The same applies to the Cayman tax. We are talking about 50 million revenue on a discount basis, which is particularly difficult to assess. With regard to additional revenue in the fight against tax fraud, there is no element in the programme law or in any other legislation to come by 21 July to explain what will strengthen our tax administration. On the contrary, we continue to hear from judges, police officers, tax fraud officers who explain to us the extent to which they are being abused by the authority and the extent to which they are being given the means to do their job, which would make it possible to report ten or a hundred times more than the investment made by the federal authority. The Court of Auditors never writes "vasy" in its reports, but that's what that means. These extra recipes are based on sand! You haven't shown since then, and it's been a few weeks, that it was concrete rather than sand!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip055x.u85	We can go on having fun like that for a long time. We have heard the same thing: the Court of Auditors is not in a position to assess, since it depends on certain parameters that it is not in a position to assess a priori. If you've decided to do a reading where you twist his arm, it's your choice. It's your way of interpreting things. She never said that the figures were not credible, that she questioned how these results could be achieved. On the other hand, she said that all these figures were the subject of detailed fact sheets and supported by the Finance FPS, but it was true that she herself was not in a position to do so. That doesn't mean anything more than that. You're going to look for things that don't exist.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip055x.u86	Mrs Wilmès, what is happening with the Court of Auditors is that, when it gives an opinion, the next one is even worse than the first one. For example, for the diamond tax, in the first opinion on budgetary adjustment, the Court said that "budget estimates largely depend on the practical modalities of application to be defined at a later stage". She therefore cannot pronounce herself. Secondly, the programme law provided these modalities. With these arrangements, the opinion became worse, as the Court said it was a possible state aid. It is not that it does not know how to determine the amount, but rather that the amount may be equal to zero, if this measure is considered as State aid. Moreover, it is quite surprising that the government can put this tax in a fiscal adjustment, since it may be state aid. The government itself recognizes this, because it says this tax will come into effect when there is the agreement...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip055x.u87	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip055x.u88	If you're telling me the amount isn't important, it's because you recognize that there's a big problem at that level. You acknowledge that the Court of Auditors has delivered a first opinion which was not very positive and a second which is even worse. I'm glad there isn't a third one!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip055x.u89	Again, as during the hours of discussions in the Committee on Finance and the Budget, I am surprised how the opposition responds to details of estimates and figures. It criticises budgetary estimates of around EUR 426 million compared to some EUR 50 billion in primary expenditure and revenue. The comments on the Cayman tax budget, the extra EUR 100 million for the fight against tax fraud and the carat tax under the programme law, relate, with all good will, to very small amounts in relation to overall budgetary control and the overall budget. The Council of State has indeed given its opinion that it cannot be fully estimated what the expected revenue will be from, among other things, the caiman tax. There are many different reasons for this, such as the difficulty of the estimate. However, the Council of State confirmed, also in its presentation during the discussion in committee, that the government had made a very good effort to budget the caiman tax. Of course, the estimate will not be exact until the euro, because it is a new tax. However, the Council of State has confirmed, in response to many questions in committee, that a very noble attempt has been made to make the budget and that it itself agrees with the government's budgetary effort. As far as the budgetary effort is concerned, the Council of State has no fundamental comments. Any sheet or document to which an estimate is made may be submitted. In any case, it is a very good attempt to estimate revenue. However, you will continue to comment for hours on the very limited amount of additional revenue, I repeat: EUR 426 million on the federal state's total revenue package. I really wonder if you have anything better to say about the substance of the debate and the choices made by the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip055x.u90	Mr. Chair, obviously on the CD&V side, the end of the month is not difficult. If, for you, 533 million euros of new revenue is not much, then we do not have the same evaluation criteria. However, on the CD&V side, when Mr. Geens was asked to evaluate the fairness tax, he told us 220 million. Finally, it turned out to be 100 million. I can understand that you may sometimes have difficulty making budget estimates. But you are not going to accuse us of not being rigorous, of not deepening a number of figures which the Court of Auditors itself considers insufficiently substantiated.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip055x.u91	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I shall begin with a small boltade. Mr Laaouej, you said earlier that Mr Van Rompuy was better on his blog than here on the chair, but you were also better on the committee than on the chair here today. I have been following the debate on the budgets in this House for 11 years and you know that I am an avid reader of everything that the Court of Auditors produces. In that respect, I have some experience to share with you. With regard to this budget change, but also with regard to the budget as such, the Court of Auditors has said that the data have never been communicated to Parliament so detailed and accurately. I must remind you that in the previous legislature certain documents which had to be notified to the Chamber were not communicated and that we had to ask for them ourselves at the meetings. Now there's the documents. A number of documents have to be delivered with each budget and budget change. They weren't there at the last budget change. The President of the Chamber requested them himself at that time. Let us be clear that, according to the Court of Auditors, this has been one of the best-founded budgets and budgetary changes since the last ten years. If people are going to say at any time that they have doubts about numbers A or B, we are really messing with less than 1% on the revenue side and less than 1% on the expenditure side. We agree with the opposition that the banking tax, the diamond tax and the caiman tax are all very important new taxes that do not affect citizens and not businesses, but are primarily going to get the money that can best finance the reduction of charges. Those transactions have been made and have been substantiated. If, for example, the diamond tax chip is checked, it is said in the calculation that the figure is EUR 51 million instead of EUR 50 million. I am sorry that we have entered a million less in the budget on a total of more than EUR 100 billion in income! Let's stay serious in this conversation. You have an ideological opinion and a position. Bring that up, but don't pick up the details. This is substantiated. This budget makes sense and is basically based on all the documents you needed to understand them. Mr Laaouej, I would really like to ask you to confine yourself to the broad lines of your vision of how a country should be governed, but do not fall into small details, where you think it should have been one or half a million euros more or that you could calculate any document other than what the Court of Auditors or others have said. Get back together and fight an ideological battle, but not a fight over figures that you certainly cannot win in this debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip055x.u92	I thank Mr. Van Biesen for inventing taxes that don't hit anyone, neither people nor companies. Now, it is possible to consider that taxpayers who have been assessed should or may not be assessed sufficiently. We will discuss this when we talk about the carat tax in particular. But taxes that don't hit anyone and that make extra revenue are a trick, just like your budget adjustment. [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip055x.u93	Yes, I did. But, more fundamentally, the surprising argument that we now systematically have on the part of the majority government is that the majority of the opinions of the institutions as prestigious as the Court of Auditors and the Council of State are systematically trivialised. As far as the Council of State is concerned, on several bills we have heard several times the argument that it is only one legal opinion among others. [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip055x.u94	Yeah, that's good. Read them completely. The trivialisation of the opinions of the Council of State, the trivialisation of the opinions of the Court of Auditors, yet the specialized institutions, responsible for assisting Parliament in its work, to a point where you systematically despise and deny them, is a worrying drift in the functioning of this parliamentary assembly. This systematic way of disregarding them is not acceptable. [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip055x.u95	That's not true. Have you followed the advice of the Council of State on the nuclear bill? Not at all. Are you going to follow the advice of the Council of State on pension reform? Not at all. So, perhaps, at some point, accept that your certainties are much more relative than you claim.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip055x.u96	Mr President, Mrs Smaers and Mr Van Biesen, we are not talking about the budget here. We are talking about budgetary control. So it is not about the so many billions of euros you are talking about. We are talking about roughly EUR 1 billion. You say that it is not so bad that a few hundred million euros have been wrong. However, this is only about EUR 1 billion. Mrs. Smaers, what you're saying is unlikely. You yourself have just admitted that the caiman tax, the carat tax and the bank tax are only minor interventions. Yes indeed, one could get a lot more out of that. Yes, it's just minor interventions. Mr Van Biesen, you mentioned the documents. First of all, it was not about the previous legislature but about the current budget. Moreover, it was Mr van Groen's colleagues who went to the Court of Auditors for additional documents. You have just said that there is a great deal of improvement in relation to the previous government. You would not have received any documents from the previous government. In your opinion, it was the chairman she had to ask herself. No, it's about the current budget and it wasn't the President they're going to ask. It was Mr van Groen who started asking for the documents. You also received the documents on this budgetary control, because we went to get them. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, when people say that the Court of Auditors agrees with everything, they have not read the Court of Auditors' report, and certainly not the additional documents. Mr Laaouej has just shown what is in the additional documents on the calculation of carat tax. Mr President, you yourself said that you could not accept this as an official document because it was not signed and certain passages were deleted. That's how those calculations were made. The Court of Auditors says that certain calculations cannot be verified for their correctness. So it is not at all true that the Court of Auditors says that these calculations are correct and one can be sure that this will happen, quite the contrary. If you had gone to the trouble of going through the documents that you consider so important and which we have given you, Mr Van Biesen, you would be ashamed that the calculation of this budgetary control took place in this way.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip055x.u97	Mr President, I am astonished to see the maneuvers of members of the majority, who are trying to divert the shot. We are not discussing the original budget. It was debated in December and we said all the wrong that we thought, while proposing our alternatives. When you say you care for a few million compared to the over 100 billion in government revenue and expenditure, that is not what this is about today. We are discussing what you proposed to us in terms of the first budgetary adjustment for 2015. Like other opposition colleagues, I note that, of many of the measures that are particularly sensitive, symbolic, the figures you are proposing are not supported. The Court of Auditors has its own style. She always euphemizes and tries not to have one word higher than the other. The Court of Auditors is a diplomat, part of its characteristics and not only in Belgium. Beyond its opinion, we, the Ecolo-Groen Group for the initial budget, the sp.a group for the adjustment, went to look for the documents on which the Court of Auditors could validate or not validate the government's budget estimates. We note that, out of hundreds of millions of euros in this budget adjustment, your estimates are not credible. They also raise, beyond the question of the budgetary evaluation by the Court of Auditors, obvious legal problems, which can be decoded from the opinions given to us by the Council of State on the texts you have submitted to it under the programme law. It is a constant fact, with regard to various projects already analysed, some of which have already been voted on or will be examined in plenary session, on the part of this government to legislate in a particularly light way in contradiction with the opinions of the Council of State, with the risk of recourse to the Constitutional Court, as if, because, within the framework of your majority agreement, you had decided on certain elements, it had to apply to all Belgians, because you decided it or certain components of the majority had decided it. This is problematic in terms of the rule of law. We are also contesting it! We talked about the diamond tax. Within the framework of the programme law, we can talk about the banking tax, the pension reform, on which we have been hiding all night. We ask for more respect for our accounting aid, the Court of Auditors and our legal aid, namely the Council of State. You're not above the law!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip055x.u98	Mr Maingain, the Court of Auditors has come to the committee. Ministers were present, which was not the case in the past. A day later, they answered point by point. The Court of Auditors has accounted for every figure put forward. The government has done the same, and so have the members of the committee. When you say that the Court of Auditors was not respected by Parliament and by the government, you were not present and you did not read the report either. Besides, I'm surprised. We are having a discussion here as if you were not on the committee. Mr Laaouej, I do not want to make it too technical, but as far as corporation tax is concerned, you say that it will raise a billion more. I read out what the Minister says: for corporation tax, a substantial increase in revenue is expected, because the company's primary income will increase by 7.5%. This growth in profits would logically result in a higher corporation tax. It is therefore logical that a higher amount should be registered here." That is literally what the Minister of Finance says. You're here to say you didn't get an answer? The same goes for the famous chips. Mrs. Temmerman, I was indeed disappointed. They went to the Court of Auditors to get the chips. I thought the chips for the caiman tax and the diamond tax would be a bomb. But those chips I've been looking at just confirm the numbers. (Protests from Mrs Temmerman) Mrs Temmerman, in connection with the caiman tax, you are talking about 50 million. It's about half a billion! How's that calculated? Well, the National Bank has said that there are 60 billion in offshore accounts. This is to be calculated at a rate of 3 % of the return, with 25 % of the return. That's 500 million. Mr Laaouej, the PS has submitted a bill for a capital tax, une taxe sur les patrimoines. What's your margin? At first reading, you said that it would be worth EUR 700 million. Mr Calvo, you have to listen carefully. She would raise 700 million euros. That calculation has been forwarded to the Court of Auditors and the Court of Auditors says that this tax would amount to between 700 million and 2.3 billion. That is the exactness of Mr Laaouej's figures! The PS is submitting a bill on 700 million, but the Court of Auditors says it can raise between 700 million and 2.3 billion. Mr Laaouej, you are here to lecture us on figures, which you know perfectly well how they came about. We discussed it for hours, not only during the discussion in committee, but also in response to questions to the Minister for Finance. Sometimes it was about smaller amounts. The Cayman tax will not be operational until 1 January 2016. Why does it only raise $50 million? This concerns advance payments of professional income, as estimated for the 2015 tax year. That's why it only raises $50 million. How could the Court of Auditors make a calculation at a time when the Council of Ministers had not yet decided on the final percentages of the diamond tax? That's what the Court of Auditors itself says. You give the impression that this is a country of fraudsters and bankers who avoid taxes. You give the impression that we are going to be some sort of Greece with regard to tax fraud, where investigators say they do not have the resources. That's unbelievable. From socialist and green parties, I expected them to have a serious debate on, among other things, the direction we should take with social security, on fair taxation, on the allocation of sufficient resources to departments of authority, on security. This is what budget discussions are for. You will be the master of the debate, Mr Van Hees. The Socialists and the Greens are all in the footsteps of the PTB. They only talk about fraud and abuse. I'm very disappointed. I do not recognize the responsible socialist parties anymore.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip055x.u99	Mr President, I confirm everything that Mr. Van Rompuy just said. I would also like to say to Mr Maingain that we pay so much attention to the Court of Auditors that the Court of Auditors, in its report on budgetary changes, noted that improvements had been made in relation to his initial remarks, of which you had made warm gorges. Moreover, all this has already been discussed in committee. I don't see why we're going back to that again. On the Court of Auditors' comments on revenue: it does not say that revenue is farfetched. It simply states that it cannot attest to the exact amount because the terms and conditions of application must be established by the government. This is the least that the implementing rules need to be established. She doesn't say there's a revenue dispute. She said that when the implementation arrangements were in place, she would be able to verify whether the figures were credible. We believe that these figures are credible. We will take decisions to implement and implement them. Point. The Court of Auditors does not say anything else. There's no point in saying that she says it's vase or, in a potted language, that it's worth nothing. Not at all. It simply says that the way in which it is implemented must be established by the government in order for it to verify its height.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip055x.u100	Ladies and gentlemen, many Members are asking for the floor and, of course, I am pleased that there is a debate. In the meantime, however, Mr Laaouej has been standing here for half an hour without being able to say a word.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip055x.u101	May I intervene, Mr. Laaouej?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip055x.u102	Of course.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip055x.u103	Thank you, Mr. Laaouej. Mr Van Rompuy, the Socialists do not say at all that this country is just a country of fraudsters and banks that are malfunctioning. What we are saying, and you will agree with me, is that the burden should be shared fairly in this country. Silently, Belgium becomes a country where the burden ends only with those who work and where the fraudsters, those who have a lot of money and the shareholders always go free. That is the discourse we are conducting. As I heard you a moment ago in the chair, you are in complete agreement with that. In this respect you will find a partner in us and should not attack us. As far as the diamond tax is concerned, Mr Van Rompuy, we did not know at that time how that tax would be collected. We have simply asked the Court of Auditors what it bases itself on and how it has been able to control how to get 50 million. We then went to the Court of Auditors and got that extract. If you've looked at it, you'll have to admit that you can see that there were different scenarios. In the document there are even cancellations. After all, first the diamond tax would be collected in one way, but then they changed their mind. So there were cancellations and the collection would take place in a different way, precisely to reach 50 million. It is not at all the case that we had to wait until the government had worked this out effectively. There was a calculation, and you saw it yourself, because you said, "I don't take this seriously. Those were your words. But that was the basis for this government and for the Minister of Finance to register the income of the diamond tax. It was assumed that this tax would have to raise 50 million and it was examined which different scenarios could be considered, after which a scenario was chosen. We have received this extract from the Court of Auditors. There is no secrecy about that and there is no other agenda. This is what we're suing. Mr Vanvelthoven just spoke about the way in which a fraudulent sector is treated, by collecting only 50 million, while in the past one company raised 150 million. If these calculations were to be applied to the same firm, 3.8 million would be drawn out instead of 150 million. That is what we are suing, Mr Van Rompuy!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip055x.u104	Mr Van Rompuy, you say that the opposition presents Belgium as a country of fraudsters and bankers. We still have to look at reality in the face. The latter may, moreover, be objected to. In reality, this government, like the previous ones, has acted with a lax militancy for fraud and fraudsters. What is the result of this? Today, international studies show that Belgium accounts for 30 billion in terms of tax evasion, in terms of loss to the State per year. Comparing the percentage of fraud in relation to Belgium's GDP with neighbouring countries such as France, Germany, etc. – I am not talking about Scandinavian countries – we realize that our country is at a much higher level of fraud. In doing so, Belgium is closer to the Mediterranean countries where the tradition of fraud is more important. Our country is therefore pointed out for its laxity, laxity which explains a significant percentage of fraud. If we look at the SwissLeaks case, we can see that the number of Belgian fraudsters compared to the number of French fraudsters, for example, is proportionally much higher. Behind this fraud, therefore, lies an objective reality. This is all the more serious as a government, as part of its budgetary adjustment, takes a measure such as the diamond tax. Indeed, not only does the latter amount to only EUR 50 million – which is, moreover, a problem – but it is also, no doubt, obsolete because no one is making advance payments under the diamond tax today. Moreover, the law will only enter into force if the European Union accepts it. Finally, the purpose of this tax is not budgetary. As has already been said, the government sold it in its budget adjustment, simply to please the diamond industry, which was very much in demand in this area. But it will only help to strengthen tax evasion.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip055x.u105	Mr President, I cannot do this without reacting to the latest comments made by Mr. Van Rompuy. Sir, I regret this because your presentations regularly arouse my curiosity because they include interesting and courageous elements, but you always finish your interventions by attacking certain parties. Today, you believe that there is a form of obsession with tax evasion on our part. Yes, of course, it's an important theme. While you were in the Flemish Parliament to carry out important and useful work, which I do not dispute, in 2009 our Parliament set up a parliamentary committee of inquiry on major tax fraud cases. I invite you to read the report. One of the rapporteurs was your party colleague, Mr Terwingen. There's been a lot of auditions. The conclusions of this commission were shared by all, including the members of your party. The recommendations were taken in dozens. Some have not yet been implemented, but they said how important it was for the Federal Parliament, the authorities, to give priority to the fight against fraud. I must admit to you a huge disappointment with your party, Mr Van Rompuy. For many years, we have had the same Finance Minister who, in our view, has rather contributed to disrupting the fight against fraud, Mr Reynders. I've had a lot of fights with him. The arrival of another party in the Department of Finance, the CD&V, with Mr. Vanackere and then Mr. Geens, was a hope that the issues would be considered differently. But we have not seen this difference, this will in the head of the public authority to fight fraud, and that remains a major priority for us. These amounts amount to billions, twenty to thirty billions, which escape each year from the Consolidated Revenue Fund. They cannot be used to develop public missions, to reduce certain taxes for the benefit of the middle class, SMEs. I cannot understand why you are involved in this trivialisation of fraud, of this non-investment in the fight against fraud, since it is known that a euro invested in the fight against fraud makes it possible to recover dozens of euros, particularly in the field of justice. We were together a couple of weeks ago in the European Parliament. Thanks to the LuxLeaks leaks, there is a general movement today to try to coordinate state tax policies in order to prevent multinationals from taking advantage of the spaces left free in the legislation to avoid paying taxes anywhere, to weaken the states. This should be our priority, including against unhealthy legislation that has been passed by other parties than ours that we must be able to challenge. We need to be able to work together at European level to create a common basis for business taxation, to try to bring rates closer and to prevent some from paying taxes to the detriment of all those who do so honestly. This is an extraordinary budgetary challenge for our country! If you want to call it an obsession, yes, it's an obsession! Tax justice is really an essential thing!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip055x.u106	Mr President, I shall be brief. It is touching to hear Mr Van Hees speak. After all, his indignation is really selective. He is not getting over saying that it is a good thing that the path of graduality is being followed, that, piece by piece, public finances are being cleaned up, that there is hope again for the future, and that economic growth, however early it is now, can get all the opportunities. He is very selectively outraged when it comes to combating fraud. The fight against fraud has not yet been the subject of this kind of debate in any legislature. Half of the meetings in the Finance Committee deal with that theme, which has a nice history with Secretary of State Carl Devlee and various ministerial powers after him, who have worked out the subject. It is also the commitment of the current majority to check, follow up, update and update all these action plans. What is Mr Van Hees doing, however? He can't give a plume for that commitment. He looks almost nostalgic at how the extreme left-wing crap in Greece has led to the total impasse. He continues to stir in the fight against fraud in Belgium, in which he is unable to reach his level. However, administrative fraud by governments organised by left-wing leaders in Greece should not be discussed. That is therefore a very selective outrage. Greece doesn't even want to make the books public. Happily, here we are discussing this subject in full transparency, and there is a prospect of economic recovery and recovery. If you think that even one Belgian would be better served by the slope of the big equal and by locking itself in completely into the scary populism, then you are mistaken and you can join in the Greek row.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip055x.u107	From now on, Mr. Laaouej, you will not be interrupted.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip055x.u108	Thank you, Mr. President. I will reply briefly. Mrs Smaers accuses me of squatting over a few million euros, that this is not reasonable in terms of the overall amount of tax revenue, which is more than one hundred billion euros, and the amount of expenditure. No, Mrs. Smaers. On page 13 of the general presentation, the government itself announced an effort of one billion and nineteen million, to be exact. And it is in the light of this figure, of course, that we must be able to examine the expected performance of the new measures of 533 million. Comparing 533 million to 1 billion, this is almost 50%. Therefore, every million, every ten million counts. Mr. Van Biesen left telling me to do ideology. How so? We're talking about a budget adjustment. In conclusion, I will have to say what I think of the budget, what it translates into political vision. But for the moment, we're talking numbers. I have already said that there is a problem with the 750 million that have been caught in the regions. I have added the problem of the 124 million in other revenue allocated to the Communities and the Regions. I am now talking about new measures. Let me tell you about this, on the basis of the opinion of the Court of Auditors, that the estimates are bogus, that they do not correspond to strictly established facts and that therefore your budgetary adjustment is subject to bail. Mr. Van Rompuy takes some strange arguments. He tells us that we have tabled a proposal for a law on property tax. Yes, indeed, and we sent it to the Court of Auditors for an opinion. And we have had no difficulty in rendering the opinion of the Court of Auditors public, unlike you. Since we ourselves had to go to the Court of Auditors to look for the records of the tax administration and a whole series of other elements in the possession of the Court of Auditors. What did this opinion say, that we made public? He said there was a range of budget estimates between $700 million and $2.2 billion. Looking carefully at the opinion of the Court of Auditors on our proposal for a law, we see that if there is such an important range, it is because the Court of Auditors has made several scenarios. There is one basic scenario, another more maximalist and depending on whether one takes one scenario or the other, it is 700 million or 2.2 billion. We had put in our bill a reasonable approach of 700 million, precisely so as not to run into criticism of far-fetched budget estimates. And the Court of Auditors is right. So we are not afraid of the Court of Auditors. Contrary to what you're saying, we're not making any wrong figures. I can see your technique, which aims at decredivising us, but you will not succeed, Mr Van Rompuy. Always to answer Mr. Van Rompuy on an important point on which I spoke, namely the problem of the quantum evolution of corporate tax revenues, you referred me to the debate with the Minister of Finance. He said – as I said myself in the rostrum – that, for 1.6 billion euros – personally, I had mentioned 1.5 billion without wanting to round up – measures had been decided by the previous government. There are measures of the initial 2015 and the 2015 adjustment for a total of 1.6 billion. So there is still EUR 1 billion that we don't know where it comes from. The explanation given by the Minister of Finance is the growth in corporate primary revenues of 7.5%. This does not yet explain a 10% increase in corporate income tax revenues. We have an explanation of 1.6 billion euros, but we still have to find an explanation of 1 billion euros which must be brought back to 12 billion euros - I round again - that is an increase of 10%. I would just like to say that it is mechanically impossible to justify a 10% increase in corporate income tax revenue on the basis of a 7.5% increase in primary income. Why isn't that possible? Because between primary income and taxable income, you have a whole series of deductions, which I do not re-invent, and that, anyway, you are below the growth of the recipe. You have a higher revenue growth than the growth of the taxable base. However, it is the opposite that should exist. So we can't follow you and let's keep asking for an explanation of the origin of this extra billion euros of corporate tax revenue that is not justified. I would remind you that it is 1 billion out of 2.6 billion euros of growth in ISOC's recipe. Here are some answers. On the other hand, I think that other colleagues have been responsible for clarifying one or the other. Colleagues, I am only on the seventh page of my presentation, which includes 19. I'm sorry. I'm going to try to contract it, but I'm going to announce the color. It's up to you to see if you want to question me or not. I was reading elements of the Court of Auditors' report. You only let me read an excerpt from the Court of Auditors' report. I could read others that all go in the same direction, namely that it was not able to have sufficient elements than to estimate the revenues. On the Cayman tax, for example, I quote the Court of Auditors: "It - the transparency tax, or the Cayman tax - is based on financial data and parameters still insufficiently known to date. This applies in particular to the total of assets falling or falling under measurement, estimated yield, the taxable basis, the extent to which advance payments will be made and which constructions will or will not be replaced by other structures." All this to tell you that a little modesty, a little humility on the benches of the majority and the government would not harm the clarification of the debate! The nuance better serves convictions, Mrs Wilmès and Mr Piedboeuf! You may say that if the Court of Auditors is not in a position to make estimates, it is not so serious. No! We are talking about adjustment, about the quality of adjustment, about the credibility of the budget because, at some point, you will have to be accountable to Europe and you will be caught up in future budgetary terms. So, as much as doing a rigorous job now. If you have taken the trouble of reading the records of the Court of Auditors which I have transmitted to all colleagues, you will agree with me that these records do not impress anyone. A fiscal return is set politically by the government and cans are arranged to get there, twisting reality and forcing the line! Anyway, I'm sorry to tell you, but you're in the approximation. Let us go into the details of these measures. As far as the liquidation reserve, the household prepayment washer, is concerned, you expect an additional 236 million, Mr. Jamar. Maybe you'll get them? I don't dispute that figure. Indeed, you take 10% on the profits that will be reserved. Your tax administration has been looking for some statistics here or there. You make a contribution, 236 million in the pocket, that's great! Except that I do not see in your budget adjustment where you have taken into account the retroactive effect of the measure. Indeed, you reverse the measure over two previous years. The question I ask myself is what will be the impact on the 2015 household discount for dividends that will be distributed in 2015 since in terms of discount, the taxable period corresponds to the tax year that itself corresponds to the fiscal year. But since there is retroactivity, the measure will cost more. Why? Because what is subject to assessment will not be subject to a personal expense at the time of distribution. You're going to tell me that I'm wrong on the grounds that people don't need to distribute right away and that, if they're smart, they're going to wait to benefit from the discount. That's right. Mr. Piedboeuf is happy because he's already getting ready and seeing how he's going to do it! No, I'm kidding. But then, Mr. Jamar, with regard to your 236 million, we agree that people will optimize. The Court of Auditors says so, like the tax administration, and warns you: "Warning! You will have an increase in revenue, but a decrease in the future, and even a decrease immediately." Why? Because, regardless of the optimisation by some people who will reserve and wait before distributing, others will not distribute. In this regard, you lose a discount on furniture. That is why the Court of Auditors sees it as a shift in revenue, not a structural revenue. You have not taken into account what we and the Court of Auditors have been able to tell you; I find this regrettable and warn you of the damage that this will cause. Mr. Van Biesen's gone. We will now be able to move forward on a more political and ideological level. Who asked you for this retroactivity with respect to the liquidation reserve? At first, you didn't think so. When preparing the original 2015 budget, you did not have a retroactive effect. How can this change be explained? We've talked a lot about the diamond lobby, we'll come back to it, but who asked you to reverse a measure that will be costly for the Treasury? Is that the Voka? We can assume that. Are these other interest unions? You have to tell us. This measure appears to be relatively generous in a context where you are demanding considerable effort from the population. I'm not going to run the inventory again. I understand better that the Voka believes that it no longer needs a tax shift, since it already has one and that it already benefits from a tax reform, a gift through the reduction of the personal discount on distributed dividends. Let us not turn around the pot: those who will profit from it are the shareholders. And I'm not trying to blame anyone. In a general context where index jumps are practiced to the detriment of millions of workers, pensioners and recipients, such a tax gift for one category of the population is very surprising – perhaps not for you, but for us. And beyond the amazing character, it's certainly revolting. There is something that is not admissible, nor understandable, that even goes against what we are entitled to expect from you, namely that you are slowly beginning to set the stage for tax reform. As we know, a tax reform requires a change of base. There are not thirty-six bases: there is the wage bill, the profits of the enterprises, the consumption and the financial income of the capital. The signal you've just sent is that you've reduced the tax on capital income and the tax on furniture. Under the previous government, we had tried to move towards a standardized rate of household discount. This is no longer on the agenda today. This shows what interests you will have in future tax reform. I come to the carat tax or diamond tax. I see Mr Gilkinet is in good shape, he's going to talk about it at length. Mr. Van Hees will come back to the diamond lobby. So I am not going to dwell on that aspect. But I'm going to tell you a couple of things. It is paradoxical that you show this measure with pride. You're proud of the carat tax, the diamond tax. This is a rather unarming over-circumvention. I'm really surprised. I thought you were going to be pretty close to the walls. No, you guarantee it perfectly! We know the arguments. According to Mr. Piedboeuf, it will bring back, we make additions, 20 million today, or 25 million, plus 50 million, it will bring back 75 million, etc. That's a first argument. Second argument: Mr. Van de Velde – the Van de Velde Institute of the N-VA – who is not here, said that we must help this sector, which accounts for 30,000 jobs and 5% of GDP. He assumes that this is state aid for a sector. He's on camera, bravo, Mr. Van de Velde! At least he says things the way they are! Third justification: it is a difficult sector to control. We can't do it. Fameful justification! Let's take them in order. First of all, it is a sector that we must help. There are a lot of areas we need to help. In fact, we should ideally help all sectors, provided they create employment, provided they do not behave unfairly in the distribution of the cake between profits and wages. Moreover, we have helped sectors. Who benefits from the professional discount exemption for teamwork, night work? Of course, this is a general measure; however, we know that it will greatly benefit the automotive sector for example – I am speaking here to our Flemish colleagues. When you make a professional discount exemption on scientific research, who will it help? This will help all leading sectors in the petrochemical industry, pharmaceuticals, everything that brings added value. Of course we are helping sectors, but we are doing so with general measures. Here, you take an area, the diamond sector, and you say, "This one, we're going to help him specifically." Why him, why not others? This is where you sin because you also openly display the fact of being the relays of a lobby, of a sector. To the detriment of what? To the detriment of the principle of equality before taxation, which is a very simple principle: in a comparable situation, whether you are a natural person or a company, you pay the same tax. This is equality with regard to taxation. Here, you organize the law to create inequality in the face of tax, you create a privilege. This privilege, I do not see what justifies it being reserved for one sector rather than another. Where you're hurting our entire tax system, and that's the most serious thing, is that you're asking people to pay their taxes and be tax citizens. People, in fact, every month on their salary sheet see a professional discount deduction. The self-employed person has his or her VAT return every three months, even if he or she is a tax collector, and every year he or she has to file his or her return and advance payments. He knows what he is, the self-employed, the entrepreneur. Workers, whether employed or self-employed, are aware of the reality of taxation. How do you want them to join our tax system if on the other hand, you come here to clarify that you have taken a specific measure for diamond dealers? You undermine the very foundations of our tax system, which is based on citizens' adherence to tax, to the right contribution to the state. It's not from today. This is how it works: for people to pay a tax, they must perceive it as being fair and necessary. Here, you demonstrate that you adhere to an unjust state. You are promoting an unjust state. In a post office or in a store, if there's a line, people will agree to line up. Unless there's someone out there who's out there. That they will not accept. They will find this unfair. First come, first served. We're in line like everybody else. Here, there will be those who will make the line and those who will not. It's serious! And I want you to be able to measure the scope of what you're doing. You justify yourself by saying that it is difficult to control the diamond industry. Many sectors are difficult to control. Go to a tax inspector and ask him if it's easy to control a restaurant. It is very complicated to control a restaurant, to re-establish turnover, to evaluate stocks, purchases, etc. It is not because we confess a weakness or impotence that we come to create privileges. This is an aberrant way of pursuing a tax policy! You lack expertise at FPS Finance, Mr. Jamar? Recruit, create a task force! That's how you're going to do it. For the rest, we know that there is legal uncertainty. This may be state aid under European primary law. You admitted it. But you still put it in a program law and in the budget. To legal uncertainty, you add budgetary insecurity. You're doing double, but in the wrong direction. This carat tax does not honor your government. It will be one of the many stigmas that will strike your forehead with the seal of economic, fiscal and social injustice. We'll have warned you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip055x.u109	Mr Laaouej, your speaking time is almost up.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip055x.u110	Mr. President, I was interrupted for almost an hour.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip055x.u111	I've timed!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip055x.u112	I see the MR's obstruction technique has been successful! I'm not sure the count, Mr. President. Maybe I think I'm being treated unfairly. Cayman tax or transparency tax. Where it would have been possible to finally see a positive step, when we read the bill carefully, we realize that in reality, you have concocted a gruyère, a sieve. Why? First, the obligation to report offshore structures will only apply to offshore structures that pay a tax of less than 15%. [[Why 15%, why not 20, why not 25, why not 34%, like in Belgium?]] First element. Moreover, in order to determine this rate of 15%, it will be necessary, by fiction of the law, to take account of all Belgian rules. The Belgian rules - notional interest, patent deduction, carry-over of previous losses, deductible dividends and everything else - will be applied fictly to the Cayman Islands to see whether the offshore structure pays or not more than 15%. It's aberrant. When I ask the Minister of Finance, he answers that it is in the name of the principle of equality. Belgian legal structures and foreign offshore structures need to be treated equally. It's a pleonasm. No, I don't! The breakdown of equality exists as soon as a person decides to organize internationally with respect to his assets and income. The breakdown of equality is in the behaviour of the person who organizes himself internationally. It doesn't hold the road. Another element relating to equality or inequality is that legal structures in Belgium are either the tax of legal persons or the tax of companies. They are therefore controlled, verified and known by the Belgian tax authorities. This, unfortunately, turns your Cayman tax project into an unacceptable gruyère. You really think you're dreaming about reading the text. As far as the 50 million are concerned, the Court of Auditors is not alone in saying that it cannot carry out the checks. I'm also telling you in this gallery. I come to the fight against fraud, since I am being asked to speed up. You're adding $100 million to the budget adjustment, of which $70 million comes from the permanent adjustment you put in place. All this is rather strange, but above all shows that the government's fight against tax evasion is not a priority. You started hard with the dismantling of the secret commissions. The Court of Auditors, of which it is said that it is not serious if it fails to give an estimate, taps in the mile when it achieves it. For the secret commissions, she had announced that you were going to lose 113 million euros, whereas at the initial, you had planned revenues of the order of 30 million. Weary war, you thought maybe she was right. What we are telling you is to listen to the Court of Auditors. Don't rely too much on your new recipes, because their estimate is subject to bail! Continuing to move forward in the wall is rather unfortunate! In addition, you are announcing 100 additional agents at the ISI. When we dig, we realize that these will be internal landslides. We must also talk – I appeal to the basic common sense of the majority – about the OECDFO which you are about to disintegrate in its own sense as well as in its figurative sense. Don't make that mistake! OECDFO has been able to stem some of the major tax frauds. I am thinking in particular of the VAT carousel. This has enabled the federal state to earn hundreds of millions of euros each year or rather to avoid losing them. In conclusion, approximate figures, a holding up on the Regions - which you will see in the near future -, measures encouraging tax fraud with the dismantling of the tax system of secret commissions, gifts and privileges granted to sectors, retroactive laws to please some, this is the sad record of your fiscal policy and your policy! In view of your electoral promises, I would like to address the MR in particular, we were expecting you on a tax reform favourable to working income. But we see nothing! Or rather so! We are witnessing an index jump that will deprive workers of 2.5 billion wages and will undermine pensions and allowances. We were also waiting for you in the field of the fight against tax fraud and we see you arriving with a privilege for diamond dealers. We see the dismantling of taxation on occult commissions, the possible disintegration, I hope not, of OECDFO and a Cayman tax that no longer looks like anything. We were hoping for more tax justice. You've cut taxes on capital income. You told us you were a breaking government. Yes, but this is about breaking equality before the law, breaking tax and social justice. You're actually the crack government. I am not referring here to the nuclear issue, Mr Cheron. I am talking about the fissure at the urgent need to combat tax fraud. I am talking about the crack in cooperation with the Regions, which you deliberately despised. I am also talking about this crack that is breaking with our fellow citizens who do not understand that they are being taken away from purchasing power and income, while privileges are being granted to others who are more affluent. I have therefore expressed all the evil that I think of your economic policy, which stems from a certain ideology: the economy of supply, and which leads you to believe what the Voka or the employer tells you, that in return for a fall in capital taxes, a fall in social contributions, an index jump, you will have recovery and economic growth, as if by magic! No doubt we will see the revival of the growth of dividends, but certainly not the growth of jobs. All this has a human and social cost that you do not take into account, as you do not take into account the alternative proposals that we have made to you. You prefer – and you seem to assume – the politics of small and big gifts to a few lobbies and a few wealthy ones. You'd rather go after the most fragile. You choose to impoverish the workers and garnish the cash drawer of the shareholders. This is the sad reality of a government that, to fiscal and social injustice, adds an economic blindness as confusing as it is revolting.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip055x.u113	Ladies and gentlemen, I would remind you that each speaker is entitled to thirty minutes' speaking time, not including, of course, interruptions. I'll chronometrate it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip055x.u114	Mr President, I will be much shorter. In the meantime, I know from experience that this doesn't mean I won't be standing here for long. I will certainly be much more positive. What is the purpose of budgetary control? That's to see if we can go back to the agreed trajectory. That is the case here. There are two things I would like to begin with. Firstly, that budget is on the path of the Supreme Court of Finance and, secondly, it is in line with the stability programme. For my group this is very important, because we have always assumed that the accounts must be correct. We note that this is the case. There is definitely a change here. How does one do that? People do that in a classic way. There are a number of windfalls. That's always been the case, even in the past. This time economic growth is 1.2 % instead of the originally estimated 1%. There are also a number of setbacks. That's always been the case. For example, there is a lower dividend from the National Bank and there are lower tax revenues. There are some surprises. This has often been the case in the past. The big surprise, although it's not really a surprise for me, comes from the special financing law, the famous 750 million we've been talking about here a few times. Some states have strongly criticised this 750 million. The federal level would transfer the bill to the Länder. It is very credible that an N-VA Minister of Finance would do that. That would be strange in itself. I note that the Court of Auditors has also calculated this using an alternative method of calculation and has seen that there is a deviation of less than 1%. The Minister for the Budget has been dealt with fiercely on this issue. The Minister of Finance has been dealt with even more vigorously. What do I notice? If the Court of Auditors calculates that by another method, clearly stating that this is another possibility to do so, there is a deviation of less than 1%. That means that this criticism was largely, if not completely unfounded. There has also been much to do about the EUR 750 million. I can only see that this EUR 750 million is ultimately being used in a sensible way. A buffer was set up for half the amount, for EUR 375 million. I have heard here a few times say that there is continuity with the previous government. I also note that there are a number of divergences with regard to the previous government. What has the budgetary conclave done? A number of fiscal measures have been taken, which have already been widely addressed here, but which are ill-advised fiscal measures. They're all measures that don't hurt the middle class. They are not measures that impose additional burdens on those who already have to pay so much. An example of this is the viewing tax or cayman tax. It would now be worth EUR 50 million. At cruising speed, that's 460 million euros. It is said that there were proposals in the past. That's right, but they never became law. We'll do it. Now, in the end, it will be legislation. That is to say that the great assets hidden behind legal constructions abroad, because that is what it is about, will now also contribute. This means that we will broaden the tax base. The problem in Belgium is that the base is too narrow and the rates are too high. This is an example of broadening the base. There is also an important ethical dimension, because it concerns capabilities that have hardly contributed or not contributed so far. This aspect is very important to my party, because it is legal constructions abroad that have to be declared. If one does not report it, then one is in illegality, then one is in fraud. This fraud can therefore be detected and prosecuted. For my party, whatever one may say about it and claim that tax fraud is zero tolerance. I come now to the second example of what is strongly criticised here, but what I call a sensible tax, namely the diamond system. This is a flat-rate fixing of the taxable result at 0.55% of turnover. It is clearly not a charge of 0.55 %. They say this is a gift. I wonder which sector actually thinks it is a gift if we have to pay 50 million more in taxes. This is a gift consisting of an increase of 350 % in the tax. It is therefore strange that the diamondaires in the time when they did not receive gifts pay 20 million in taxes and that at the time when they do receive gifts they pay 70 million in taxes. That is a very curious idea of the concept of a gift.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip055x.u115	It's the sector itself that thinks it's a gift since it sabbed champagne! Mr Vuye, I refer you to a note studied yesterday in the Finance Committee, which comes from the FPS Finances on the basis of a previous draft bill by Mr Geens, which had the common sense not to make it a bill. He himself was particularly cautious about the figures announced in terms of new revenue and said that some fraud cases updated by the ISI have led to tax revenues much higher than the additional €50 million you are announcing. You do not say, and the reasoning is identical with the Cayman tax, that you offer in return for this contribution a legal certainty, a kind of diamondica pax, which is really problematic. Being unable to control an economic sector, you tell him that you are going to move on to a flat-rate tax system, which is far below the profits made. It's not for nothing that the area rubs its hands! Other economic sectors would like to be treated in the same way! As far as the Cayman tax is concerned, it's the same thing. You say that you extend the taxable base but, on the one hand, you do not do so according to the origin of the funds or the past and, on the other hand, you accept a tax rate that is particularly preferential since from 15% of taxes paid in the countries hosting these offshore companies, no tax will have to be paid in Belgium. You say that you are going to make contributions from financial structures that did not contribute (for more than EUR 60 billion of Belgian property held abroad) but they will legally pay far less taxes than in Belgium. You're creating a new loophole, a new tax avoidance route. You have copied existing legislation in the Netherlands. There are other types of legislation that we have put forward in the Finance Committee that actually make it possible to charge in Belgium the whole of the tax from which the tax paid in the country concerned is deducted. This is much fairer and it will make these tax havens inoperative as they will become uninterested in tax matters. That is, if a company has real economic activities in a country considered as a tax haven – which can happen – it will pay in the country concerned its share of taxes and the balance in Belgium. Instead of letting these billions escape, we can repatriate them to Belgium. The two measures you are quoting, those of which you are so proud, those which you consider to be the translation of future tax justice in Belgium, because you are a party that is truly committed to the fight against fraud, these measures are not credible in the light of these criteria of tax justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip055x.u116	Mr Gilkinet, the answer to your comment on the Cayman tax is very simple. According to you, a new escape route is being created. We're not creating anything. That route's been around for a long time. These are legal constructions abroad, which have been there for decades. These are routes that have been used for decades. You know exactly what I'm talking about. According to you, a new escape route is being created. We're not creating anything. On the contrary, the Cayman tax will ensure that people who are in a legal construction there.................................................................................................................................................................................................... What's the problem with that? It's the first time it's happened. Those concerned are not in Belgium, so you should not apply the Belgian rates. They're not in illegality either. The route has been in place for decades, but from now on a certain tax will be imposed on those concerned. As far as the diamond tax is concerned, one can of course work with very high rates. One can do that, of course. That's fantastic, so you can say on paper: look how we tax the diamonds. However, it is only on paper, because in reality only EUR 20 million are collected. What happens now? We are moving towards a more efficient and effective tax which will also be collected. That tax is 3.5 times higher than what you think you can achieve. You reach 20 million euros. The other system reaches EUR 70 million. There is therefore no point in imposing higher rates when you know very well that you cannot collect these taxes. Fair taxation is not only about tariffs, but also about the possible collection of taxes. When one cannot collect a tax, it is not a fair tax, but a stupid tax.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip055x.u117	Mr President, I see that the diamond-makers have a lot of supporters in this Parliament at the moment. That's good. It is indeed a natural product. This carat tax is in fact a resignation in the face of the difficulty of controlling a rather powerful sector, capable of exercising a lobby and which has even created in this parliament a diamond club.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip055x.u118	We're not part of that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip055x.u119	On the Flemish side, only my colleagues in Groen refused to be members. It is a resignation, for lack of means, for lack of political will in the head of the tax administration as to the ability to control the sector. With regard to the Cayman tax, indeed, offshore foreign revenues were not taxed. Don't tell me it was legal! This is one of the conclusions of the Committee of Inquiry into Major Tax Fraud. The means had to be put in place to ensure that these incomes of Belgian citizens were taxed simply on a normal basis. In this case, what you are doing is legalising what was illegal – as was done previously in the context of tax regularisations – against a tariff that is particularly advantageous to the people concerned, since you have set a minimum rate of 15%, including tax benefits (notional interest, patent income, excess profit regulation). Against a minimum income – I prefer this income to be in Belgian state funds rather than abroad – you will actually legalise active forms of fraud that are unacceptable. In the context of my first parliamentary question to the Minister of Finance on the subject, I was struck by the amounts involved: '56 billion euros', he mentioned to me, apart from three countries where it can be estimated that there are also a lot of these constructions, namely Switzerland, the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg and the United States. It's huge! The ambition you have in this area is clearly insufficient and you are creating new routes of tax evasion.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip055x.u120	Mr President, I think Mr Vuye has said something very remarkable with a loud applause from the majority, in particular that taxes which cannot be collected are unfair taxes.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip055x.u121	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip055x.u122	I'm talking about what you said.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip055x.u123	(...).
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip055x.u124	No, you just noticed that the diamond tax came because it is better, because taxes that cannot be collected, you find unfair taxes.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip055x.u125	Those are indeed not fair taxes.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip055x.u126	Do you know why the taxes on diamonds weren't collected? Because the diamondaires went abroad with the winnings. The SwissLeaks and LuxLeaks show that. Most of the files concern files of Belgian diamondaires. This is also apparent from the BBI's notes to the Minister, who also confirms that. So there are two possibilities for that determination. Either it is used to tackle these fraudulent practices, which was the slope of the previous government, or it is decided to give the diamondaires a gift. That is what the current government is doing. The message you're giving is next. The tricky thing for me is that you are just giving that message at a time when the SwissLeaks and LuxLeaks are coming out at a time when we are closing the loopholes at international level. At international level, the shortcuts are blocked, which is the merit of many countries, of the European Union and of the OECD. Just at that moment, so at the moment when we can catch the fraudsters, you are throwing at the fact that taxes that we cannot collect are taxes that we should actually abolish and that we really will not collect anymore. You no longer choose to tax real profits, which is true for everyone in this country.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip055x.u127	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip055x.u128	That's true. For all companies in this country, I am not talking about bakers and hairdressers, the real profit is the basis of our tax system. That is what this government is abolishing for a very specific sector. We think that's unfair. You think that's fair and that's your right. But please do not allow CD&V to come here and argue for fair taxes if you are going to give a tax gift in an unfair way to an industry that constantly proves that it is secreting its profits abroad.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip055x.u129	Mr Vanvelthoven, I feel the need to intervene again, as I did earlier on regarding the accuracy of the Court of Auditors and so on. Firstly, you have a point when you say that this form of tax calculation is unique. That is correct, it will be the first and only sector where the profit is to be calculated in proportion to the turnover multiplied by a percentage. You're right about that. In many other flat-rate schemes, we talked about this in the Committee on Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development, this is calculated on the basis of a number of quantifiable elements. A baker's is about the kilos of flower, and a bone-cutter's is about the pieces of meat. This is actually about determining the turnover on which a percentage is calculated. You're right to say it's a unique system. However, you are wrong to say that this system would have been created because it is now being closed internationally in order to avoid the international escape to avoid taxing profits in Belgium. What you're saying is wrong. It is also wrong to say that in the past more was collected by, among other things, the fight against tax fraud. I proposed that Mr Crombez, along with all the other secretaries of state responsible for tax fraud, should come to our committee. Then they can tell us how much has actually been collected after the fines and the taxable base you have just mentioned about Omega Pharma. In this context, Mr Vuye is absolutely right when he says that it is indeed very easy to record certain things, to say that there has been fraud and to impose a fine. However, the only thing that matters is how many of those fines are actually paid and how much the State int. Exactly where justice lies. Today, 1001 fines can be issued or 1001 calculations can be made on what a particular sector still has to pay, but if one doesn't pay for them, there is no point in referring to them. That is why this government has rightly developed a system. I also admit it's a unique system. I hope that Europe will accept this. I am asking questions because it is a unique system, but it is the only way to make this sector contribute more to the taxation of this country. It's the only way! One can think of 1001 other ways, but Mr Crombez did not find one, nor did Mr Devlee at the time. No one's found another way. This government has developed a system whereby it will pay EUR 70 million instead of EUR 20 million. That is the reality, and that is the only fact.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip055x.u130	Mr President, I would like to repeat briefly. When it comes to major tax fraud, we believe that this does not end with the imposition of a tax and a fine, perhaps with the question of whether it will be possible to recover it. For us, this ends with the prosecution in the court of those who committed major tax fraud. If we are so consistent, all the gentlemen and ladies who think they can escape taxes will know that they can go to jail for this huge tax fraud. That will discourage major tax fraud. What is now before us is anything but dissuade. Justice fails in this area. Isn't it fairer to impose correct taxes on a correct profit? Those who cheat have to pay and go to jail. Isn't that the logic itself? Let us go down that road. That, however, is what this government is abolishing. Fraudsters no longer have to pay taxes on real profits, and if they are cheating they must not go to jail, that is clear.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip055x.u131	It was agreed in the Conference of Presidents that those in the Chair may replicate comments in the debate. So I will. Mr Gilkinet's comments on the diamond club have been quietly dismissed. Nor do I bring up Tomorrowland against Mr Calvo. (Protests from Mr Calvo) Mr Vanvelthoven, you are making a very interesting connection between the diamond system and SwissLeaks. Let us think further about the concept of fair or sensible taxation. Mr Hervé Falciani, the man on the basis of SwissLeaks, said at the time that it was very difficult to tax capital, because capital is very volatile. It is particularly difficult to tax profits in this difficult sector, as you advocate. After all, profits are moved very easily. What's his solution? He provides a solution for taxing turnover. So what happens here is exactly what SwissLeaks' whistleblower recommends. Exactly! I suppose it's a sensible tax, isn't it?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip055x.u132	This is an essential point, also within the framework of the procedure for the European Commission. Mr Vuye, I hear you saying that this is a sales tax. You refer to the whistleblower who, as a solution, proposes a sales tax. [[I have heard the Minister of Finance in the Chamber and publicly say that it is not a sales tax, but a profit tax.]] That is a fundamental distinction for Europe. I can now hear you say, referring to the whistleblower, that this is a sales tax. I am pleased that this has now been noted in the report.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip055x.u133	One can use the turnover as an easy way to tax. What is happening here is a flat-rate fixing of the taxable result. It is a flat-rate fixing, based on turnover, of the profits that are made. By the way, all normal tax laws are applied. The turnover is indeed used to achieve an effective tax that will generate 350 % more than John Crombez could have done. That hurts. I know. I can imagine that. You're gonna be awake from that performance nights.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip055x.u134	Mr Vuye, you say that we have to tax on turnover, because if we tax profits, we can see a move of profits. But that is one of the problems of this tax! With the diamond tax, the Antwerp companies being taxed on a flat-rate basis, there will be a shift in profits from the other companies to the companies that will be taxed on a flat-rate basis. So we're going to see a double effect. Not only will the companies taxed flat-rate pay nothing, but the others will pay nothing if they belong to the same group. I do not agree with this principle, but let us accept that they are taxed on a flat-rate basis on the basis of their turnover: the question then arises as to how high. How are we going to fix it? According to a still mysterious percentage for me. Still, some argue that this process will double the current recipe. But if you make a million euros, you declare 1,000 euros and you are taxed on 2,000 euros, the increase will indeed be impressive since the amount of the tax will be multiplied by two. But we must see the reality behind all this. If you want to tax on the basis of turnover, determine the percentage by referring to companies that have been subject to a thorough tax check and a consequent correction with a profit of not more than EUR 1 000, but EUR 1 million. Set your ratio by taking into account the companies that have been audited and have been subject to this type of correction. In that case, maybe we'll get a little closer to reality.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip055x.u135	Mr President, Mr Crombez's balance sheet points to 1.8 billion euros in terms of additional returns thanks to the fight against tax fraud in less than three years. Comparing this figure with the government's anti-fraud budget, there is no picture. I am even afraid that the government's forecasts are far too optimistic about the impact of the measures it has taken.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip055x.u136	Mr Van Hees, you are talking about a sense of reality, but one must have it. You should be aware that this is a sector of which you assume, on an ideological assumption, that profits from usury are being made. That is no longer the case. This sector has been in crisis since 2007. At the moment, this sector still provides 32 600 jobs. Those who hold 32 600 jobs in Belgium are particularly important to us. What will you do in your system? You will destroy 32 600 jobs, but you will be entitled to 32 600 benefits. You like that, you love that, because you think it is much better to pay benefits than to keep jobs. The result of your reasoning is that you will miss 70 million in revenue for the Treasury. I think you're getting a wonderful result.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip055x.u137	Mr. Vuye, we need to be consistent. Either you say that what you're doing is seriously taxing this sector so that it pays the tax it has never paid so far, or you think it's necessary to help it because it's in trouble. In any case, you cannot hold these two speeches at the same time. It's one or the other! Either you seriously tax them or you consider that they need help in the form of a big tax gift. Now you use both arguments. It's incomprehensible!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip055x.u138	There is, of course, a very large ideological difference between the N-VA and your party. We care about saving jobs.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip055x.u139	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip055x.u140	You want to give a tax gift to help the job, right? Then say it!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip055x.u141	Do you have the floor, Mrs Temmerman? I don't think so, but go ahead.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip055x.u142	Mr Vuye, if you want to help the diamond sector, and you can make this speech, then you have to give it a subsidy and, to do so, knock on the right door, namely, the Flemish Region. This can be a grant of whatever kind you want, but make it clear! Don't come and present us with a tax privilege that looks like nothing in legal terms and sends a bad signal to taxpayers!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip055x.u143	That is really not the issue, Mr Laaouej. If these jobs are saved, it is not because tax privileges are given, but because legal certainty is provided in that sector. Companies need legal certainty. The companies are not all looking for fiscal cutting edge technology. What they do want is legal certainty and a degree of consistency in the legislation. This is now being offered to the diamond sector. That will ensure that those 32 600 jobs are maintained effectively.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip055x.u144	You trivialize and legalize fraud – these are the words of Mr D'Hondt of the FPS Finances – in a sector that is fraudgevoelig, which is particularly susceptible to fraud. We saw him in the HSBC file. Mr Vuye, I do not deny the fact that some economic sectors need specific assistance to develop, to create jobs, to respond to social and environmental challenges. I simply identify them elsewhere than in the Antwerp diamond sector. I think the reasoning is right: in the case of public aid, it is necessary to target those sectors which need it most, which can create activity and condition the aid granted. We did the analysis of the programme law in the Finance Committee yesterday, it was tailor-made, at all levels, by the sector. In case of fraud, it is the tax administration which has the full responsibility of identifying the evidence. This particularly sensitive diamond sector is not being asked to prove that the diamonds that are sold come from the correct channels of respect for human rights and payment to the countries of origin. Here you have decided that this sector is the alpha and omega of the economic model that this government wants to defend. I'm surprised! We are facing an absolutely extraordinary energy challenge, which creates jobs. In the non-market sector, hospitals, support for the elderly, there are plenty of things to do, there are really subsidies to be given that will result in job creation, which will reduce unemployment, improve the well-being of our citizens. And you choose to give the diamond sector conditions of privilege! This speaks volumes about the nature of the alliance that is in power in Belgium today.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip055x.u145	Privileges which represent a tax increase of 350 %, Mr Gilkinet, are very strange privileges. I also find it very strange that you apparently assume that the whole sector is cheating. By the way, you just added that there are apparently human rights problems as well. Then prove it before you launch such serious accusations into that sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip055x.u146	I contest this reasoning on two levels. Firstly, if there is a problem of tax collection in the diamond sector, it is not by giving it privileges that we will solve it, but by developing more effective control mechanisms. Secondly, with regard to tax revenues related to the diamond sector, according to Mr D'Hondt's note from the FPS Finances, the few cases of fraud that could be carried out to the end by the ISI, which is unfortunately too rare in Belgium, reported more than the announced revenue of 50 million. Revenues from successful fraud cases must also be taken into account. They're too rare. If we developed better means of control, I think the revenue would naturally increase. There, you give legal stability to a sector. You are making a diamond pax that is not justified in comparison to other sectors which, I believe, need more support.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip055x.u147	I assume the definition of privilege for you is an increase of 350 %. You are free to use that definition; there is freedom of expression. I'm just taking note of that, but allow me to say that I don't use that definition. So much for my comments on the diamond system. We are also satisfied with the contribution of the financial sector and with some aspects of the fight against fraud. There are also additional savings in primary expenditure and the operating costs of social security. We also welcome that. No one can be opposed to seeking greater efficiency in the operating costs of social security. What is also unique and at the same time reflects the strength of change is that in budgetary control there has been an eye for job creation. That is a particularly important element. It is a win-win situation for those involved, because work is the best guarantee not to fall into poverty. For the government, there are fewer expenditures and more revenue from the moment there are more people at work. The best example is the eight thousand start-ups for young people, which will lead to a reduction in social expenditure of EUR 80 million. I would also like to comment on a few legal observations made by the Court of Auditors, including on Justice. The Court of Auditors has problems with the fact that late invoices are charged for the years to which the expenditure relates, namely 2011 to 2014, and not the current year. According to the Court, this is not in line with the strict accounting management, for there is no accountability and no control. But what are we doing here other than checking the rules? So I do not share the very formal, formalist concern of the Court of Auditors; I am concerned that late invoices from the Court of Justice will be paid and that citizens will eventually receive the money they are entitled to. Allow me to say that the statement by the Court of Auditors that that booking method would not allow control is nonsense. We are in the process of parliamentary control of these specific measures in the budget. Like institutions such as the Council of State or the Court of Cassation, the Court of Auditors has a few evergreens. One of the evergreens is the interdepartmental commission, which would be contrary to the principle of budgetary speciality. In that context, I would remind the Court of Auditors that once, decades ago, there were rules about the rules. Now one looks at the purpose of a rule. What is the purpose of the specificity of the budget? That is precisely the possibility of parliamentary control. We are talking about such a limited amount that it does not make parliamentary control impossible at all. On the contrary, any well-thought-out government will set up an interdepartmental commission in times of reorganisation to cover unexpected expenses. The principle of speciality in the budget, contrary to what the Court of Auditors says, is certainly not an absolute rule. I come to my comments on a number of departments which are of particular interest to my group. As far as Home Affairs is concerned, we are very pleased that there is extra money for the police, who are responsible for our security. We will not send any more special forces to Verviers with used weapons eight years old and were taken away by the Dutch special forces. We are particularly pleased that these police officers are getting the equipment they deserve and need to take care of our safety. Another aspect is asylum and migration. Murder and fire have been shouted, because Secretary of State Francken would not succeed in meeting his ambitions for lack of resources. Now extra money is provided for repatriations and for staff for the closed centres. The results of Mr Francken's policy are there: there are 500 fewer prisoners in Belgian prisons, because he is more quickly turning out illegal criminals. In the first six months of 2015, he deported 662 illegal offenders, which is more than the total number of deportees in 2014. That is an important result. Furthermore, the budget allows further work to be done on the Council's waiting lists for foreign nationals' disputes. There's a huge waiting list. That is inhumane and above all irresponsible, because today's waiting lists are tomorrow's problems and the regularizations of the day after tomorrow. If we want to avoid tomorrow's problems, we must ensure that the waiting lists disappear. A new judge has been appointed so that the framework is finally complete. There are funds entered in the budget for the catching-up cells. For a number of months now, the Council of Foreign Ministers has actually been working on reducing the backlog. Then I come to my last two comments, in particular on the future, with a question of vigilance, which is very important for my group. The recent OECD report has already been quoted by Mr Van Rompuy. He said that unit labour costs decreased by 1.1 % in the first three months of 2015. That is the strongest decline of all OECD countries. This can only improve for the second quarter. This will improve, as this will be enhanced by the effects of the index jump, which are not yet there, by the effects of wage moderation and by the decline in patronial contributions to 25%, to which Mr Van Rompuy also referred. All this is hopeful, in the sense that there has been a change and that there is now a change of course. I would like to end with a slightly less positive note, in particular the question of vigilance. That has not yet been discussed here. We note that the number of asylum applications has increased by 50% in the last two months. In June, the number of asylum applications also increased by 50%. In two months' time, therefore, there are a thousand more asylum applications. This month we have already received some 1 900 applications. There are a few days left, so we will probably end up at 2 200 to 2 400. We notice that the influx is rising again. On behalf of my group, I would like to stress that it is a task of the entire government and of all parties of the majority to ensure that the necessary tools are put in place and that the necessary precautions are taken. We must not end up in the same situation as in 2010, when we will act at a time when it is too late. It presupposes that precautions and tools are put in place at the level of dossier handling so that, with due regard for all rights, the dossiers are decided in a normal manner and without undue delay. As far as reception is concerned, Fedasil must provide shelter worthy of modern democracy, humane reception with a special focus on the most precarious persons, namely unaccompanied minors.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip055x.u148	Mr Vuye, I would like to make two points. First of all, I would suggest that you make available to all Members of Parliament the figures you may have requested from your own State Secretary, so that we all have the same information. Secondly, I understand your argument as a question to provide sufficient resources for a humane asylum and migration policy. If this is done in a humane way, then of course we support it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip055x.u149	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip055x.u150	I haven't said that for a while. If that is your conviction, I will not stop you from throwing them into the debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip055x.u151	Mr Calvo, continue your intervention.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip055x.u152	Mr President, Mrs Van Peel was chasing me, but I am not being distracted. (...): (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip055x.u153	Let Mr Calvo speak.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip055x.u154	Apparently, Mr Dewael has more problems with freedom of speech every hour.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip055x.u155	Mr Calvo, get to the point.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip055x.u156	Mr President, I come to the conclusion that Mr Vuye seems to be asking for more resources for a humane asylum and migration policy. Can you describe that a little more? Does that mean that your group will be tabling an amendment to enable these resources to be used, or is it a blank cartridge that you are launching from the seat of the speaker? Finally, I think it is an important point because people in need must be helped in a humane way, Mrs Van Peel. However, it also makes a few comments about a discourse that your party has used for a long time before, namely that it is possible to delete everywhere, that the government lives on a large scale and that there is space everywhere. You've been drawn to the election with the Moesen norm. All public expenditure would be frozen in nominal terms. That was perfectly possible. Now the N-VA ministers stumble on each other's feet week after week to ask for more resources for their departments, of which we are aware. I am pleased that you are confronting the practice, taking responsibility and, as all the administrations do at all levels, finding that it is not easy to cut. That is three points. You have a lot of seats in Parliament. I wonder whether you will turn your questions into a specific question, in particular an amendment to this budget.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip055x.u157	Mr Vuye, I attended a meeting of Foreign Affairs this morning, where Secretary of State Francken made it very clear that tomorrow there will be a note in the nuclear cabinet. In that note, the forward-looking policy or the vigilance, as it is put forward, will take shape. He will very explicitly ask Selor to set up a recruitment reserve A1 because it is expected that an influx will occur, similar to the situation in Austria. He will ask for an increase in a budget rider at Fedasil to be able to finance that policy. A number of Level C people will also be recruited. If we want to organise a humane asylum policy, there must be means to do so. I just find it a little weird that we are discussing an adjustment of the budget here today and that a note will be submitted tomorrow to the nuclear cabinet to ask for funds. The budget must have a vision for the future, which will not be on the government's agenda until tomorrow and probably later.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip055x.u158	Mr Calvo, it is not at all the case that the additional resources requested would not be known or withheld in the wings. I was also present at the same meeting this morning, Mrs De Coninck. It was a statement by the Commissioner-General for Refugees and the Stateless. Secretary of State Francken has indeed made a move there. He will go to the nuclear cabinet and he wants to present a note in which he asks to be vigilant. We need to be ready if there is to be a very rapid increase in the number of asylum seekers in the future, as is currently the case in other European countries. He has indeed set the example of Austria, where the number of asylum applications has risen from two thousand to eight thousand per month, in a very short time. Such an increase has a major impact. He simply says that we must be vigilant, but that we will not spend the money now. We just want to make sure we're ready. We shall do no more than that, Mr Calvo, Mrs De Coninck.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip055x.u159	Mr Vermeulen has already replied to Mrs De Coninck's question. What is it really about? It's about avoiding the Austrian scenario. We are therefore saying that there must be vigilance here.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip055x.u160	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip055x.u161	I know, Mrs Temmerman, that the first time I will be able to answer a question in your eyes will probably be in 30 years' time.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip055x.u162	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip055x.u163	I mean that it will never happen that I have answered a question in your eyes. I will always have answered next to the question. To be honest, I have already accepted that. As far as the vigilance note is concerned, I gave the explanation. It is very responsible that we say, at a time when it is still possible, that we must now be vigilant. We do not want to achieve the Austrian scenario, with a sudden addition of a thousand per month. We must be vigilant about this. Mr Calvo, you just mentioned my sources. I think it's wonderful that you know it. I just want to give you an answer to that. There is one aspect that Members of Parliament and journalists have in common, namely that they cannot be obliged to disclose their sources. I very much appreciate your question, but what my sources are, I know and you don't know. I don't intend to reveal my sources either.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip055x.u164	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip055x.u165	Mr Vermeulen did not mention them.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip055x.u166	Mr Vermeulen spoke of your sources, but that was not the most important of my speech. I do think that your call for vigilance is an important political fact, even if it becomes more and more clear that the N-VA is being confronted. I repeat the fact that its own electoral programme in the field of public expenditure is unfeasible. That was something that could exist in theory, but not in practice. As soon as you take on responsibility, the public services are given a concrete role, the officials are given a face and the tasks are given a concrete form, you note: tens, they are not all sitting around with their fingers, tens, something is being done with that money, tens, those policemen need a uniform, tens, they need office chairs to be replaced, tens, they need digitization... Perhaps that is the time, Mr Vuye, when you simply acknowledge that public spending matters: to take people in, to ensure security or to ensure social security. What you have said about this during the election campaign is still the discourse that we must continue to save, say at last that this is not really possible. Perhaps you can now admit that continuing to save cannot be done or that it is not so easy to pit away every euro you have to pit away, that in practice it is much more difficult than you thought before the elections. In this respect, N-VA's policy participation has been positive.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip055x.u167	Mr Calvo, I will reply to your comment. I can understand why you think that another party's program is utopian. After all, you have been going to the elections for decades with a utopian programme, so it is perfectly normal that you think that another party's programme is also impossible. Mr Calvo, your reasoning may not be correct. A temporary investment will allow us to speed up processing, reducing the number of people in asylum centres and, at the end of the journey, bringing that money into the account, it will cost you less than originally. However, you cannot understand that reasoning, I know that. However, by investing now, it is possible to obtain profits because the procedure is moving faster, resulting in fewer people in asylum centres. In the end, it will prove that we have less costs.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip055x.u168	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip055x.u169	I've done my best to explain it simply.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip055x.u170	That may be stated in the report. I can reassure Mr Vuye that I understand his reasoning. Mr Vuye, your reasoning supports what I have said. Sometimes it is good to invest, because that public money is spent for a certain purpose. I just wanted to take this opportunity to say that it is a good thing that the N-VA discovers it from the ground up, so that today you no longer cook with theoretical fabrications such as the Moesen norm, where all expenses are frozen because that would be perfectly possible and because otherwise money is thrown. No, today you discover that public spending also has a purpose. Public investment supports people in the field, for example in the areas of asylum and migration, and this is useful. I'm glad you found out. Some of the N-VA programmes still need to be improved, and perhaps they will evolve, but one point has already been lost, for which thanks. That is a good thing, because that makes the debate more interesting and richer. It also makes the N-VA a party with more experience in the field.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip055x.u171	Mr President, allow me to reply to what Mr Calvo and Mrs De Coninck have said. Mr Calvo, I think your speech is very good. What I mean is that it may happen that there is a need to invest in order to achieve savings in the end, and we as a party have never opposed that. Apparently, you've only read or not read our program with half an eye, or you've made a caricature of it. Nowhere in our programme does it say that such investments cannot be made. However, we do not want expenditure to lead to an increase in public debt or expenditure to be a waste, because we are opposed to it. We are, of course, never opposed to investments which ultimately lead to savings. Why would we be against that?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip055x.u172	A little historical knowledge is not unimportant. An old socialist, Mr Vande Lanotte, will not blame me if he has solved a refugee crisis once. It's not that new. Just so we're clear, I appreciate what Secretary of State Francken wants to do about efficiency. People who ask for flights and asylum must be treated much faster and better, with a faster result if they have applied for asylum. Secretary of State Francken announced this morning that it would be discussed at the heart of the matter. You don't say that so explicitly here. You're in the majority. I feel that you are announcing this here in order to take the other majority parties in the bathtub.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip055x.u173	What is your question, Mrs De Coninck? I don't mind answering it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip055x.u174	I apologize if I wasn't clear. I'll do it in my teacher style. I note that during the budgetary negotiations you are announcing some unrecorded items. It seems that tomorrow it will be discussed with the ministers at the heart of the matter, or at least with the Vice-Presidents and the Prime Minister. Do you have a deal yet? Or are you exerting pressure on the other majority parties to release the funds for the crisis that could possibly arise, as you are vigilant as you are?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip055x.u175	Mrs De Coninck, your question was so easy that I probably didn't hear it. I do not see where you see a problem in that regard. Secretary of State Francken is a member of the government. He announces that he apparently wants to go to the nuclear cabinet with a note. I suppose he will, too. I myself do not speak on behalf of the government, nor am I Theo Francken's spokesman. I am speaking on behalf of my group, who is sitting there. I declare, on behalf of my group, that we find that there is a problem in this area. We have certain information about this. We have certain sources of information about this. We ask the entire government to be vigilant on this point, because it is an important point for my group. That's all.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip055x.u176	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip055x.u177	That's the first time. Mr President, that must be included in the report. That is the first time Mrs Temmerman has said that it is clear and that I have answered a question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip055x.u178	Mr Vuye, everything is in the report. Please continue.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip055x.u179	I would like her words to be included in the report in bold. I'm actually done with my speech. This vigilance is needed. My group will look carefully at this point. We would point out to the government in this respect that there is one word of order, in particular vigilance. Do not let things get out of hand as in Austria. Don't let things get out of hand like in 2010.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip055x.u180	Mr President, I have only thirty pages. Mr. Laaouej had nineteen.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip055x.u181	You have thirty minutes.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip055x.u182	But I speak fast and since I will not be interrupted, it will go fast. First of all, I would like to say to you, Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, that the MR welcomes the agreement reached within the government in the context of this budgetary control. This adjusted budget takes into account the need for more action in favour of employment, justice, security and fraud, while taking into account the current economic context. The budgetary changes also comply with the commitments made in the previous financial year and respond to the observations of the Court of Auditors made in the original 2015 budget. You have heard it at the reading of the report and I would like to stress it again: during the preparation of this adjusted budget, the government has shown its coherence and its working strength. This is proof that the government is working as a team and achieving results. I would also like to highlight in particular the preparation, formulation and synthesis of the Budget Minister, Hervé Jamar. As laid down in the procedures, the Court of Auditors has indeed made certain observations on this adjusted budget, as it has done for the initial budget. In its report, the Court of Auditors confirms the prudent and serious nature of the budgetary adjustment prepared by the Government. She also highlighted how the government had responded to the comments it had made on the 2015 initial. Where the Court of Auditors had pointed out the shortfalls in appropriations, the Government had made a solution in the context of this budgetary adjustment. I would also remind you that the Minister for Budgets confirmed to us, during the work in committee, that with regard to the appropriations which were not increased during this budgetary adjustment, solutions could be found internally. Mr Laaouej, kindly, you are asking this government for modesty. Let me ask others for intellectual honesty about the opinions that have been issued by the Court of Auditors. As I said, the Court of Auditors carries out an exercise every time a budget is presented. What does she have to do? It must give a verifiable objective opinion on the validity of the figures advanced, as it always does. It therefore made a series of comments on the figures for certain new measures, arguing, it is true, that it was difficult for it to decide on them, given the difficulty of understanding all the operational elements of these new measures a priori. There is nothing unusual about this with all due respect to the Court of Auditors. It also notes that all these figures are supported by detailed calculations from the Finance FPS. We have already discussed a great deal about the provision of 750 million euros. I'd like to go back because it's important. I would indeed like to recall, as I have already said in my speeches, but I would also like to remind you more formally here of the call for the appeasement of Minister Jamar, who has indicated, several times in committee, his desire for a peaceful dialogue between the entities. He also said that in this case there were neither winners nor losers, and that these were means for the entire population, without distinction. I would also like to point out, as has already been said, that this is the pure and simple application of the special financing law voted under the previous government and that, pending the agreement - it is important - the advances paid to the Regions do not take account of this decrease. In any event, the difference between the calculation made by the Court of Auditors and that of the Government is only 1%. It should be added that the Government has shown all the necessary caution in this matter by imputing only part of this sum on its budget, which the Court of Auditors has welcomed. I would be remiss if I did not mention the famous interdepartmental provision, which was the subject of so much discussion during the preparation of the initial budget. We were told that it was badly done, undervalued, etc. I would like to take this opportunity to tell you that at the time, it was valued at 296 million. Today, after budgetary control, the same amount is estimated at 151 million. And, at this point, only 16% of this envelope has been allocated, proof of the correctness of the budget minister's estimates. Let's talk about the content. This adjustment remains on track and our government remains on course. It respects its European commitments, ensures the credibility of our country and continues its efforts to clean up while giving air to sectors that need it. Thus the budget agreement contains various measures in favour of SMEs, Horeca, youth employment, security, justice and a strengthening of the fight against tax and social fraud. My esteemed colleagues will speak further in terms of justice, security and employment-related measures. As far as I am concerned, I would just like to make an image-based stop at measures that we believe are fundamental to the MR. Start-up measures are designed to help start-ups take off. Three measures are important in this context: - the tax shelter, which provides for a tax reduction to the person who acquires new shares of an undertaking that begins; - a loan exemption, always for start-up companies, allocating EUR 15 000 to the first tranche via crowdfunding, thereby supporting this type of financing; - partial exemption from professional discount, also for start-ups. The MR fully supports these new flagship policies for SMEs, which are working to revive our country's economy. I pointed out in committee that a study by the European Commission points out that SMEs are responsible for 85% of the newly created jobs in the Union. In Belgium, in 2013, SMEs accounted for 99% of enterprises, 68.9% of private employment and 61.6% of value added. The importance of the measures taken by the government was confirmed a few weeks ago by the Federal Planning Office in its Economic Outlook 2015-2020 report. What do we learn in this report? First, there is good news for the economic health of our country, its businesses and its people, demonstrating the relevance and value of the federal government's actions and leadership. Several positive elements emerge from this report: the recovery of growth, which, although moderate, goes hand in hand with a steady increase in employment and a decrease in unemployment, at its lowest level since 1991. With regard to justice, our government has been working to find a solution to the backlog of invoices. It is clear that this effort must go hand in hand with the implementation of a procedure to allow for the timely and timely payment of invoices that still arrive. In addition, there is an additional 37 million unblocked staff to meet the current workload. During this budgetary control, great attention was also paid to the security of all our citizens. A new interdepartmental provision of 200 million is foreseen to cover non-structural expenditure exclusively related to security and additional staff appropriations.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip055x.u183	Mrs Wilmès, when we talk about security, and it is of course very important to devote all the necessary resources to it, we are also talking about the fight against financial crime. Therefore, I would like to know what you and your group, the MR, think of this disintegration project of the OECDFO with a view to decentralizing it in the various boroughs. I would like some clarification in this regard. I am not out of the question, since it is a question of seeing, through the means provided by the Ministries of the Interior and Justice, what is the political will of the government to combat financial crime, which is a segment of our security policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip055x.u184	You may not be out of the question, but rather before the subject. No proposals have been submitted in this area. I suggest you discuss it again when there's one. An important point in the dynamics of this government is to stop looking at entrepreneurs a priori as fraudsters, while actively tackling tax and social fraud. I already hear remarks when I say that the ISI will indeed be strengthened in the very short term with the arrival of 100 people, in order to be able to cope with the workload required by this struggle. Moreover, it should be borne in mind – as has been said on other subjects – that the keystone of this policy is the automatic exchange of international information. You will see, as I do, that the government is fully in line with this dynamic. This afternoon, we discussed tax revenues at length. The government plans to step up the fight against tax fraud to the tune of EUR 100 million; the anticipation of the transparency tax, to 50 million by 2015 to increase to 120 million from the following year; the introduction of the diamond tax. These various measures have just been the subject of much debate. For me, we will not be done talking about it and exchanging our respective views on it. That said, the government's work has not yet been completed. That is why my group encourages him to continue his efforts to revive our economy, create jobs, and thus sustain our social security while keeping the budget heading by 2018. In fiscal matters, as in all the policies that the government is putting in place, it is important to stay on course. The credibility of our country is at stake. Investor confidence in the stability of our decisions, creating jobs, whether large or small, is a key factor in the health of our economy. The MR welcomes the fact that, through the work done, this government endorses this principle of common sense. Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, as you will understand, our group will support these budget adjustment projects which allow for important new initiatives without any additional burden on citizens, while respecting the structural budgetary balance in 2018.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip055x.u185	Ladies and gentlemen, after Mr Van Biesen we must take a technical break. For the organisation of work this evening, we shall confine ourselves to discussing the budget. We will finish the rest of the agenda tomorrow.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip055x.u186	To be sure that we have the right information, so that we can organise ourselves: is the proposal for a law on the fight against the activities of vulture funds placed first on the agenda of tomorrow?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip055x.u187	Yes. Is everyone okay?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip055x.u188	Ladies and gentlemen, I hear from the President that you need a break after my speech. So I'll try to stretch it for you until the break. Mr President, we have heard many interesting speeches today. Before I come to the point of this budgetary adjustment, I would like to make a number of comments. First of all, we had very interesting and technical debates in committee, but today we are once again being seriously damaged by points which have very little to do with this draft law. I have just heard a number of proposals which have been made in no way in amendments. Furthermore, I have just heard the leader of the N-VA argue for more resources for asylum and migration. However, I have not seen an amendment on this either. I am therefore sorry that this debate is being abused and does not lead to talk about the essence, particularly the state economy of this country. In other words, let us get to the point: how should we put this country on the right track? Before I really go into this debate, I have to say that a lot of speeches are being made about the justice of our tax system. I hear the opposition say that a lot. Mr Laaouej, Mrs Temmerman, Mr Vanvelthoven, Mr Gilkinet and Mr Calvo, all say that our tax system must become fairer. Ladies and gentlemen, may I just say that all the groups have jointly approved this tax system? We have one of the most just tax systems in the world. It is very strange that a liberal should say that, because we should a priori think that any form of taxation is unfair. However, we have one of the most equitable tax systems. We have progressivity in our personal income tax, we have a fixed corporate tax rate and we have taken a number of clear and smart fiscal measures to create economic growth. We have one of the most just tax systems in the Western world. To say here that we need a fairer tax system is actually curses in this hemisphere. That's what I was gonna say. It would therefore be better if everyone reviewed their reasoning and accepted our very intelligent but above all fair tax system and developed it further. In the light of this budgetary change, we are taking a number of fundamental measures today which may well be a break with the past. Indeed, we are taking measures which introduce additional taxes without affecting citizens and businesses. Today there is a whole series of measures ahead, which we will discuss further in the context of the discussion of the programme law. The Cayman tax will already yield EUR 50 million this year. At cruising speed, this will be 450 million to half a billion. We have never been able to achieve this tax revenue before. I'll come to the bank tax. Is there anyone in this hemisphere who thinks it is unfair that this government should introduce a bank charge of EUR 100 million, which the banks have to pay in addition because we saved them here? After the financial crisis, we took on our responsibility to support our economy through banks that were able to redistribute the necessary funds. Is there anyone in this room who thinks this banking tax is unfair? I'd like to hear it. Of course, one can always discuss the size, but this remains an important tax which will make the financial sector contribute to the financial resources of our government.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip055x.u189	We find it logical, healthy and normal that the banking and financial sector contributes to the overall effort to which all Belgians are subjected. I do not share the view expressed yesterday in the Finance Committee by the Finance Minister that a point of no return would have been reached in terms of the contribution of the banking and financial sector. In the light of the Minister's remarks, I will put the announcement of the profits made by BNP Paribas Fortis and transferred to its French owner of more than 1.5 billion euros for the last year. I will take into account the amounts paid for the efforts which are proportionally much higher that are demanded of all Belgians and especially to a large part of the most fragile of them. Compared to the scheme contained in the programme law by means of an amendment, the Council of State once again draws heavily on the legislator's fingers by believing that the formula decided, i.e. to reduce the ability to deduct equity through notional interests, is more than problematic in law since it creates different categories. This also means that it is not a net contribution from the sector but a less ability to deduct notional interest. The Council of State also said that it was not for the government to set the rates, since that was what was provided for in the text. We have had a fundamental problem since the beginning of the existence of a bank tax, it is not proportional to the risk posed by banking institutions. We are asking for a lower level of tax than the smaller banks, which are on average more linked to the real economy and are less risky. Other countries have chosen to increase the number of institutions to allocate risk and, on the other hand, require a greater contribution from larger institutions by encouraging them to increase their own funds. I say yes to the principle of a contribution, I say bof with regard to the amounts and I say that the government is wrong as regards both the quality of the legal texts and those which bear more burden and which deserve differential treatment.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip055x.u190	Mr Gilkinet, I think you are mistaken. First of all, it is going to be a bit technical, but I would nevertheless like to say that the current banking tax approach takes account of the inequality that would arise if only the savings volume of the banks were to be taken into account. The banks for which very little effort has been made and which have indeed survived the financial crisis due to risk management are better protected by this new formula. In the system you are proposing, they would have been linear, all for the same thing. This would have been a bad thing for the smaller banks and savings banks. Another system has been developed which takes this into account. Secondly, you said once again that Minister Van Overtveldt is one of the strongholds of this government. However, I would like to agree that, if Minister Van Overtveldt had said at a certain point that the banks had already contributed too much, a few seconds before, he did not reply negatively to my question whether the installation of the banking tax should be accompanied by a compulsory dividend payment of profits for those banks that have benefited from State aid through the capital structure. I am referring specifically to Belfius and BNP Paribas. Those banks should drain a large part of their profits to the government through a dividend distribution. I spoke at the committee about almost EUR 200 million that both banks could contribute annually, as long as they are in our hands. You know my position on this; I think it is important to get them sold as soon as possible. Minister Van Overtveldt has made it clear that negotiations are being conducted to obtain an additional dividend from these institutions, so that one has the banking tax, on the one hand, and a dividend flow from the banks in which the government has participated, on the other. In this way, the burden is distributed more fairly in relation to the efforts made by the federal government for the different banks as such. That would be a fair element. The bank fee shall take into account the specific situation and risk management of the banks. Moreover, the banks in which we intervened at 100% in the capital should pay a dividend to the government. That dividend would be around EUR 200 million on an annual basis.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip055x.u191	I refer to the statement made by the Minister of Finance in the presentation of the amendment on banking tax yesterday in the Finance Committee. His text was forwarded to us by the services and the minister explicitly states that he believes that the sector has contributed sufficiently. I do not ask for any better evolution in the minds. As for the system we promote in this area, we propose a system inversely proportional to the place on the market of the establishments concerned. The smaller the place, the lower the relative rate of contribution payment. On the other hand, systemic banks with a larger share of the banking market, above 15%, will have a proportionately larger contribution. I believe that the smaller, more secure banks, which are more closely linked to the real economy, specialising in market segments that deserve a specific approach, should be encouraged. Their model must be seen in the light of the problems we have experienced since 2007-2008.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip055x.u192	Mr Gilkinet, I have what the Minister said in committee yesterday. First of all, it concerns an additional contribution of 100 million. But right now, he says, the taxes of the financial sector are towards EUR 1.4 billion on an annual basis. You always talk about the one hundred million, but actually it's 1.4 billion. He continues: "This means that these taxes tend to be limited and that there is little or no margin for further tax increases in the sector, given the challenges, including profitability, that the sector will face in the coming years, given the financial and global environment." He refers here to the requirements of Basel III and Solvency II in relation to the higher capital base and explicitly states that he has taken care that there is a balance between large banks and small banks. The large banks account for about two thirds of the bank levy. So any of your arguments is wrong.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip055x.u193	We will continue to discuss the programme law in relation to the banking tax. I have made my position clear here. Firstly, I believe that the banking tanks are fair, because they take account of the size of the banks, the volume of savings and the savings banks. Secondly, there is an additional plea for the dividends of the banks in which we have a public participation. Today we should have discussed the fact that we are on the right path with the budget change, as we had presented it to Europe. Remember that we are only a few months away from the area where sanctions are threatened, because certain budgetary standards are not being met. Apparently that has already been forgotten in the hemisphere. It can only be established that we are on the right track. I have just made it clear and clear what the essence is, the story behind the budget change: the structural balance is falling by 0.65%. That is better than what Europe asked us to do in June 2014 and more than what the High Council of Finance recommended to us. The key question is, in the end, whether we are on the right track, and that is our concern, with the proposals, in order to achieve a balance in 2018. Well, we are indeed on the right track to strike a balance in 2018. Our party is allergic to budget deficits; it is extremely difficult for us to achieve a balanced budget as quickly as possible. There will then have to be a long way to go, with smart taxes, as we are introducing today. The cayman tax, the bank tax and the diamond tax are very sensible taxes. We had a discussion earlier. The diamond tax is a fair tax, asking a sector to pay more than before. We don't just hit mea culpa with that. No one, neither John Crombez, nor Carl Devleuwe, nor Mr Clerfayt, the former copain of Olivier Maingain, has ever managed to treat the diamond sector fiscally correctly. We are now able to do so by introducing a system which is clear, transparent, more correctable and clearer to analyse. The government will therefore be able to ask for a contribution of EUR 50 million higher than before. I'm sure that's from now on forever. In other words, EUR 50 million is added every year. It is essential that we take such measures. I repeat that these are measures that do not harm citizens and our businesses. That's the essence of the story. To these fiscal measures, we are responsible for each party's opinion that this may be added to its list of economic strengthening measures. I'm talking about the plan for start-ups, which gives young start-ups oxygen, the tax shelter and the partial exemption from the company levy. Night work in e-commerce will also be made possible. In the catering industry, extra earning is flexible and cheap. Through growth jobs, we increase the opportunities of low-skilled young people in the labour market. We are thus also responding to various European comments. Finally, there is a very interesting transitional measure for the liquidation bonus. In addition to the economic strengthening measures, there are also a whole range of social measures. That's the essence of the story. I am pleased that the Minister for Social Affairs is here to listen. After all, we have included a lot of social corrective measures in the current budget amendment. We have introduced economic strengthening measures and socio-corrective measures. For example, in the social domain, mental health care is a very catching-up operation. We also discussed flexibility in the labour market earlier. We also had a very long discussion in committee on the financing law and its consequences for the regions. Mr Laaouej, I heard you very well. There are good points in your speech. You know the file pretty well. You've been involved in this on and off. We know the file a little bit too. It is fundamental, and the government should also be convinced that at fixed times, prior to budgeting, budgetary controls and budgetary revisions, there is consultation with the Länder in order to reach an agreement on the correct calculations. I spoke with Mr Calvo about the Consultative Committee and the report to the Chamber on it. It might not be a bad thing, should we advise the government not only to make some employees of the FPS Finance responsible for the calculation of the amounts to the Länder as a result of the financing law in the coming years, but also employees of the Länder. It is good that the amounts are clearly discussed in advance rather than revealing them after one night conclave. Dealing with each other in this way is not conducive to federalism, which we really need in our country, so that every state and federal government in our country can talk on an equal footing, with the right information and in a spirit of cooperation. This should also have been done on the night when it was found that less money would be transferred to the Länder by means of the Finance Act. At that time, the government should have organized an important consultation with the Länder. That makes sense in a federalism of cooperation. It is not, however, because such consultation has not been organised, that one or the other may refuse to contribute and remain in its position. The financing law has been passed by almost all parties in our country, by the four major movements, Liberals, Socialists, Christian Democrats and Greens. In other words, it would be better for us in future to find a formula for applying federalism of cooperation also in the budget and the impact of the financing law, so that there can be no discussion about it and no hundreds of methods are needed to do the calculations again. The parameters are fixed. Anyone could have known what the result could be.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip055x.u194	Mr Van Biesen, I am glad that you have said once again that it would be good if we were to have a more structural feedback from the Consultative Committee. We too would like to see a majority in this House for this. The Prime Minister was not very enthusiastic about this, but Parliament and you in particular can be very convincing, so let us get to grips with it. A second point I would like to make is that your plea for federalism also sounds like music to me. You have mentioned a number of groups who wish to enroll in federalism. However, I have to say that one of your prominent coalition partners does not show this attitude at all. You say about the Finance Act that this must be done properly among large people. Mr Vuye has also written an article on knack.be. I note, however, that your coalition partners are not at all so enthusiastic about this federalism of cooperation and taking care of ambras in the Belgian stand. There too, I have to say that the majority is not on the same wavelength and does not immediately make the most administrative, forceful, united impression. Cooperation federalism, please, but I have the impression that you still have some work in your own coalition to convince the people of it. I have noticed this in the discussion on the Finance Act.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip055x.u195	Mr Calvo, I have said that the four major movements in this Parliament have approved the financing law and that it forms the basis for the way in which, for the next few decades, the division between the different entities in this country will take place. We must follow that closely, but always in consultation with the Länder and the other entities, so that no one gets any surprises. Where an entity does its budgetary control at a given time, there should be no difference in the figures used. This is an adult cooperation federalism, in which everyone in this hemisphere must register. So I was talking about economic strengthening measures and social measures. There is also the fight against social fraud. The government has decided to continue this fight hard. In concrete terms, phenomena which distort competition and affect our social security systems are being tackled. That is why we are working on an improvement in data mining and our Secretary of State Bart Tommelein is given the necessary resources to realize the proceeds. There is also the fight against tax fraud. Fraud undermines the justice of our system. This is why the government has put in place a better monitoring of compliance with the tax return, increased exchange of information between Member States and the further development of data mining. The fact that we are really serious about tax fraud can also be said in this hemisphere. There has recently been a change of government whereby we have put the fight against tax fraud in the hands of one of the strongholders of this government, Mr Van Overtveldt. I am firmly convinced that the results of this struggle will certainly matter. There's a difference from the old days. In the past, the discussion did not last long, because there was very little in it, but with each budget change, one amount was adjusted, namely that of tax fraud. In one year, tax fraud has been budgeted at 600 million. The Court of Auditors stated in its report that it could not find any justification for that amount, either in a sheet from the FPS Finance Office or at the Treasury Inspectorate. That was to put the Court of Auditors in its report. Today there are detailed calculations for amounts of EUR 20 or 50 million. At certain moments, our Minister for the Budget has even given answers to budgetary changes in the order of EUR 100 000 to EUR 150 000, as specific questions were asked. This is in stark contrast to the past, when the final chapter on tax and social fraud was 600 million, without any explanation in the texts or in the budgetary texts that have been tabled here. The Court of Auditors then had to say that it could not give any advice on this because it knew nothing about it. As a result, we have had almost everyone in the last four legislatures as Secretary of State for Tax or Social Fraud. At one point there was one secretary of state, later there were two. The last one was John Crombez. I shall go back to a period in which we had two Secretary of State, Mr Clerfayt and Mr Devlee. Each year they held a separate press conference on the outcome of tax and social fraud. You will remember that, Mr Jamar. The two figures were fundamentally separated. In the case of tax fraud, one State Secretary included all the corrections, modifications and additional charges that the FPS Finance included in its normal budget. The other only looked at the result that the BBI could have captured. However, what everyone forgot, until then Secretary of State John Crombez, is that there is a fundamental difference between, on the one hand, the determination of tax fraud and its fixing in a certain amount and, on the other hand, the actual collection of tax fraud. That is why, as I have just done, I would like to recommend that the four former State Secretary for Tax Fraud be invited to our Finance Committee with each of their reports, in which they can indicate the amount they have fined and how much they have only collected. That could open the eyes of many, and it could fundamentally change the debate. We have had a similar discussion about the millions that would be collected as a result of tax fraud in the diamond sector, but let us be honest: the amount collected is very small. I have already talked about taxation. Intelligent measures do not take the citizens, and certainly not the businesses. The banks make a fair contribution. We are in a very difficult period today, and I understand that various statements today were a little bit out of the world, to express it in the terms of Thé Lau, who left us today. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to end by saying that we are beginning to feel that we are on the right track. We feel that we will achieve a budget in balance and the budget deficit will be close by 2018. That road has gone down. Everyone agrees that the structural balance improves fundamentally each year, this year by 0.65%. We feel that the middle class, the middle class, governs our country better than ever before.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip055x.u196	Ladies and gentlemen, the President-in-Office of the Council has asked me, as the oldest Member in years I have just as many years of seniority as Mr Dewael, but count on more years to take over the presidency of this sitting. He asked me to continue the meeting. Some Members have been removed from the list of speakers. I now give the floor to Mrs Karin Temmerman. Mr Gilkinet, Mr Dispa and Mr Maingain were then given the floor in the general discussion. A number of speakers will then speak on the sub-topics.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip055x.u197	Mr President, I am the only one present since the beginning of the sitting. Would it be possible to interrupt the session?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-24-54-plenair-ip055x.u198	We interrupt the session for five minutes for technical reasons. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on June 24, 2015 at 7.20 p.m. The sitting is closed. Next meeting 24 June 2015 at 7.20 p.m.
