ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic150x.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, we shall begin with the questions. Many fellow Members have already turned their question into a written question. There are also a number of fellow Members who have postponed their question. I promised Mrs Temmerman that she could ask her question first because she would have to go to another committee and could not be present next week.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic150x.u2	Minister, according to the government, the tax shift that will happen in the future would be of a size of EUR 5 billion. We must stress, however, that this is EUR 5 billion in five years' time. It is actually only EUR 1 billion a year out of a total of EUR 100 billion overall. That's actually not that big. That's barely 1%. And yet people are talking about that big tax shift, up to there. But in a lot of communication, including this weekend at VTM, you say: "We have already implemented 2 billion euros of tax shift with this government." My question is very simple. We know the composition of the EUR 2 billion, but you say that it has already been implemented. Then it must be about other matters than those we have already heard. So my question is what is the EUR 2 billion tax shift that has already been implemented? Where and when was that decided? What exactly does that mean?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic150x.u3	As early as its composition in October 2014, the government decided to reduce the tax burden on labour by EUR 2 billion, i.e. 0.5% of GDP. It was decided to do so through the deduction of flat-rate professional costs for employees and to increase them in two stages, namely in 2015 and 2016. To reach an annual amount of €900 million by 2016. This is clearly a reduction in labour costs on the part of the worker. As there was no index jump in 2015, according to the current outlook, but a substantial reduction in charges was implemented, we have thus encouraged purchasing power. As far as the reduction of charges for companies is concerned, it is possible to reduce the burden on the employee, but also on the employer's side............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... These tax reductions are financed by compensatory measures on taxes on capital, consumption and eco-taxality for the period 2015 to 2018. In relative terms, capital contributes most to the financing of the reduction of charges, i.e. all together for more than EUR 1 billion. More specifically, the liquidation boni introduced by an early levy at a rate of 10% instead of 25% for an amount of EUR 500 million. Other measures were taken with regard to the tax on stock exchange operations, EUR 80 million, and with regard to the viewing tax on legal arrangements of EUR 120 million. We know from recent estimates that with these EUR 120 million we have been conservative and that the proceeds may be multiple. But that can be further assessed and analysed. Moreover, in 2015, an additional effort of EUR 100 million will be required from the financial sector, banks and insurance, essentially by limiting the notional interest deduction. This additional contribution from this sector will continue in 2016 with an additional EUR 50 million, in addition to the EUR 100 million of 2015. In addition to capital, consumption and eco-taxality also contribute to the tax shift of EUR 2 billion. A number of measures were taken on VAT, totalling EUR 200 million and excise duties, totalling EUR 700 million. With regard to VAT, it concerns the abolition or weakening of tax favor regimes in order to harmonise better the taxable basis as established by Europe, without prejudice to e-commerce and to the performance provided by plastic surgeons and to the renovation of homes which are to be at least 10 years old from 2016. The excise duties were indexed and, in addition, excise duties on diesel, tobacco and alcohol were increased, always taking account of the situation in neighbouring countries and the frontier trade. I hope that I have given you a more concrete insight into the first EUR 2 billion tax shift.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic150x.u4	Mr. Secretary, I knew everything you said, of course. That's nothing new. I made it very clear in my question that we know the composition. You and your government are constantly saying that EUR 2 billion has already been realized at the moment. But all I hear are things that have yet to happen, especially with regard to the tax shift of capital. Those are only intentions, those are things that you have entered in the budget, but they are not yet there at all. So it should not be said that EUR 2 billion of tax shift has already been done at the moment. That's not true at all. The only thing that has happened is the savings in pensions, as far as capital is concerned. Everything else has yet to happen. It's okay to be a little honest about that. Also what you mention about VAT and so are things we know. It is about what has already been achieved.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic150x.u5	We discussed the order of business this afternoon and there is a preliminary draft programme law with fiscal provisions coming up with a lot of these things: the caiman tax, the diamond tax...They will be voted in this Parliament at the end of May and will deal with the dates previously foreseen. In the first round of the tax shift is the bank tax, the caiman tax,... The flat-rate deduction that has already been approved and will also apply next year. You will have a great deal of work before the summer to discuss and approve these capital taxes in this House. Perhaps to show that it is not enough, that is another matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic150x.u6	Mr President, that is precisely my point. I'm glad you're answering instead of the Minister. In many discussions now on the tax shift, the Minister and this government, or representatives of this government, or representatives of the majority parties, says: we have already done so much tax shift at the moment. While this isn't right. There has indeed been a budget and we still have to vote on it. We must then say that we intend to and do not say that we have already done such a large tax shift to capital. Certainly these measures on capital are yet to be implemented, and they are not yet in place. Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, we have already voted on the index jump.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic150x.u7	Mr President, the Finance Committee is not the ideal time to practice 1 May messages. Let's be honest. Let us stick to the item on the agenda, in particular to the Minister for Finance.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic150x.u8	I think the answer was clear. We can read that tomorrow, and then we can get rid of any misunderstanding about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic150x.u9	Mr President, Minister, I would like to ask you about this following articles in the press concerning the sale of Greek bonds by Fortis as being at very low risk. Indeed, in 2009, as Greece enters into recession, BNP Bank continues to sell Greek bonds as robust German bunds. The good father of the family who, at the time, connected to his PC banking could discover that the Greek share was among the favorite bonds of this type, classified risk 1. This obligation is now worth only 17.88 per cent of its value. As a result, it has lost more than 80% of its value in five years and has a C/D rating. In March 2012, customers were offered to replace their obligation with a basket of 24 bonds. On the basis of the articles, it is more than 1,500 Belgian customers who would have been victims of the bank's practices. Minister, this is an example for me. This is not without reminding us that consumers are never sufficiently well informed and protected in the face of the banking and financial world. I take the case of Greek bonds, but we have already seen that other products could also have had that kind of influence. Improvements have already taken place in this area at Belgian and European level, but these measures need to be stepped up. Can you briefly explain what your government intends to do for better protection of the financial consumer?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic150x.u10	Mr Crusnière, thank you for your question on the protection of financial consumers, to which I attach great importance. With regard to the specific case to which you refer, I can tell you that an analysis is currently being carried out by the Autorité des services et des marchés financiers. In addition, you will have read the press release in which BNP Paribas Fortis contests the claim that it has proactively sold to its customers a share of its own Greek sovereign debt portfolio or Greek bond portfolio. An analysis is under way on this subject. Unfortunately, I can't give you any conclusions yet.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic150x.u11	Thank you for your answers, Minister. My question was indeed based on the article you mentioned. But it focused on the measures you plan to take to better protect consumers. I heard in introduction that it was a priority for you. Unfortunately, there are many other cases than this one, and I will continue to pay attention to the measures you will take. I hope they arrive soon.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic150x.u12	Minister, the federal government has made important decisions in favour of the redeployment of free zones. As I was concerned about the progress of the Walloon government in reporting, Minister Marcourt replied that this was ongoing. Minister, can we be informed of the status of this issue in the Walloon Region?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic150x.u13	Mr Piedboeuf, the free zones that the Flemish Region has defined are the only ones that have been proposed to me so far. They will enter into force from 1 May. Negotiations to conclude a cooperation agreement between the Federal State and the Flemish Region, covered by the Act of 15 May 2014 implementing the Competitiveness, Employment and Recovery Pact, resulted in an agreement signed on 3 April, which will be published this week in the Belgian Monitor. The other Regions have not indicated to date that they are interested in the conclusion of such an agreement. At the end of December, my office contacted the three Regions. In January, a meeting was held with their respective representatives. The draft law and the draft cooperation agreement were discussed at the Consultation Committee on 28 January. I am not aware of the list of free zones designated in Wallonia. A request by the Walloon Region for the delimitation of an aid zone would, moreover, have no reason to be at this stage, since Article 16 of the aforementioned Law provides that a Region may propose free zones only if it has previously concluded a cooperation agreement with the Federal Authority – which is not the case to date.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic150x.u14	Eternal Regrets! I hope they won't!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic150x.u15	Question No 3600 by Mrs Griet Smaers is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic150x.u16	Mr. President, Minister, the role of the Maintenance Claims Service in the fight against poverty and the role that can affect single-parent families in particular is essential. The mechanisms are known. It is known that legislative changes have resulted in a review of the revenue limits for access to SECAL advances. It is known that children with disabilities now count twice as much for the increase in the ceiling per dependent child. It is known that the maintenance creditor will no longer have to bear a share of the administrative costs and that they will be fully charged to the maintenance debtor or contributor. However, the Service's performance is unfortunately weakened by the fact that the human and budgetary resources allocated to the Service are probably insufficient. Moreover, Mr. Pacolet, an expert, university professor at KUL, who had led in 2012 the survey entitled The budgetary impact of the granting of advances by the Maintenance Claims Service, had noted that the proper functioning of the Service lacked an additional appropriation of some €8 million. You have not been able to grant it in your budget. The Court of Auditors had also pointed out during the examination of the 2015 budget that, at the very least, the expected increase of 1.2 million compared to 2014 was not sufficient either. You suggested that the situation would be rectified during the budgetary control last March. This does not seem to have been confirmed. You now suggest that the means would be sufficient until the next budgetary control, in September 2015. However, you have also made it clear – in committee in April, it seems to me – that since the new income ceiling came into force since 1 January this year, 1,134 additional requests had been made for child support payments. This brought the number of children likely to be assisted or assisted last March to more than 16,000 cases. We are facing a real problem of insecurity. You mustn't hide it. For some families, finding some tens or hundreds of euros more per month to pay the contributions due from the food creditors is essential in their budgetary balances. Is it worth recalling that more than half of the households with children with CPAS are single-parent families whose head of household is most often a woman (80% of the cases)? Based on a monthly average of 31,600 households with children using integration income, some 17,000 single-parent families move to CPAS each month. It can be estimated, without all of these single-parent families necessarily benefiting from the SECAL intervention, that many of them should be affected by the proper functioning of this Service. It was also noted that the SECAL evaluation report had not been prepared since 2010. However, there is an obligation to prepare an annual report for the attention of the Ministers of Budget and Finance. These opinions could also be forwarded to Parliament. Minister, what structural measures do you intend to take to improve SECAP benefits to those most in need? How will you possibly cope with the lack of budgetary resources for this Service? In addition, do you consider that the SECAL is now in a position to comply with the 30-day time limit set by the law for its intervention in respect of applications, provided that they are duly established and not questionable?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic150x.u17	Mr.President, Mr.Maingain, in December 2014, SECAL paid €1,966,000 to 15,159 children for advances in December. For the month of April 2015, it is an amount of 2,167,000 euros (a little rounding up) for the benefit of 16,659 children. Since the Act of 12 May 2014 entered into force on 1 January 2015, the number of beneficiaries of advances has therefore increased by 1,500 children, in more or less 1,200 cases, without being able to determine the exact proportion directly related to the new revenue ceiling. SECAL has a period of 30 days after which it must have notified the maintenance creditor of its decision to intervene. Since this is a legislated time frame, the necessary instructions were given to the office to ensure that decisions were made on time. In addition, if no negative or positive decision is taken, the system automatically sends the positive intervention decision on the last day of the deadline. The members of the assessment board have been appointed or appointed for a period of six years. Since the appointment decisions date from 2005 (Royal Decree of 17 September 2005 and Ministerial Decree of 23 December 2005), the term of appointment ended in 2011. Since then, the evaluation committee has therefore been unable to meet properly. As a result, no report has been prepared. In any event, the procedure for re-establishing the commission is under way. As proof, the presidents of the political groups received a letter asking them to let me know their candidates. Once the commission has been established, it will be able to resume its activities and prepare its report.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic150x.u18	Thank you, Minister, for these statistical and procedural clarifications regarding the initiatives taken, in particular, to reconstitute the evaluation committee. I take it from the minister's response that, with the staff available to him and the budgetary resources allocated to the mission of the Maintenance Claims Service, he can cope with the increase in the number of cases but also with respect to the legal deadline. We'll check it in the next few months. That was not the opinion of the expert, nor that of the Court of Auditors. But the minister seems to suggest that he can enforce the deadlines by his administration, since he says that he has reminded the administration of the statutory time limit.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic150x.u19	Minister, in reading the 2015 Financial Services Operational Plan, I can only note that the means will be reduced. It's not a surprise. We know that you are only applying uniform measures to all departments requested by the government. However, 40 to 50 per cent of the workforce working in collection and collection services will, depending on the age structure, have left the tax administration by 2020. This information, combined with the drastic savings put in place, makes me think that there will potentially be more public servants in these departments, which are essential to the proper collection of taxes. What says good tax collection says good budget performance, as a reminder. Therefore, Minister, is there any plan to strengthen the framework of these two segments of your administration in the near future? Is there a specific exception to the non-replacement of staff in these departments?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic150x.u20	Mr Crusnière, a circular will be approved on the basis of the decisions taken by the Council of Ministers. It will define the final staffing envelope of the FPS Finance and the methodology for the 2015 Personnel Plan. Recruitments and promotions will only be executable upon approval of the 2015 personnel plan, with the exception of the introduction of an individual file. With respect to the General Administration of Perception and Recovery, we can expect many departures in the coming years. If all 62-year-old employees decide to retire, we will have 535 departures by 2020. This is why the General Administration of Perception and Recovery is working hard to make these processes even more efficient, in particular by continuing to digitize and standardize them. In addition, last February, a request was made to derogate from the recruitment freeze to allow us to recruit more quickly collaborators in the profile that correspond to the functions critical to the General Administration of Perception and Recovery: data miners and business analytics to enable us to advance in the digitalization of processes. The General Administration of Perception and Recovery still has 135 recruitment authorizations, in accordance with our 2014 personnel plan. The FPS Finances has already finished organizing its selections in collaboration with the Selor and today has reserves of winners ready to enter service as soon as the recruitment freeze is lifted and the 2015 staff plan proposed and approved. As for the ISI, this government's decision to provide for 100 additional recruitments is clearly in line with its absolute commitment to effectively combat fraud, focusing on large-scale tax evasion. In principle, these are new commitments in Class A1 for which a budget of EUR 4 million is foreseen. Part of these commitments may be replaced by the principle of internal mobility emanating from the AG Taxation, provided that it receives the compensation necessary to carry out corresponding recruitments. This immediate contribution of experience could only have a positive impact on the expected budgetary surplus value. The new officers will hold a university degree in specific fields (lawyers, economists, ICT specialists or accounting experts) which show a particular motivation to work in the ISI services. The greatest consequence of these commitments will naturally be the training of these new colleagues. A specific programme will be developed by the ISI with internal and external training as well as a junior-senior back-up programme in the field. Selections for these additional recruitments are underway and will be carried out largely before the summer break. The new employees are scheduled to enter service in early September.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic150x.u21	Minister, I thank you for these answers, which, however, remain worrying, given the figures for departures by 2020. You also quote a number of commitments. But, as we know, commitments will unfortunately not cover all departures. We also know that more and more are being asked of finance officials. Improving processes is obviously a lead, but it will not be the only one. I know that tension is growing among finance staff. I invite you, Minister, to be attentive to his requests and to keep in touch with the trade union organisations because I feel that the pressure is starting to rise. It is an administration that works very well and that we need very much. We really need to be attentive to the needs of our staff.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic150x.u22	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the professional federation, I was informed that some printing companies are asking questions about the operation of Fedopress. In particular, questions are asked about the fact that no VAT is charged on contracts for other public institutions, including BIPT and the Home Affairs Office. In addition, only working hours would be charged, not raw materials. You will understand that my question is directed towards combating unfair competition. The above-mentioned facts would create unfair competition, which would make it virtually impossible for commercial companies to reclaim contracts from the public sector. Mr. Secretary, are you aware of the way Fedopress works? Can you inform us about who controls Fedopress? Can you inform us about how Fedopress still processes the goods it doesn't produce with other purchases in the system and apparently doesn't pass them on to the government? What specific measure do you propose to exclude this form of unfair competition?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic150x.u23	Mr President, Mr Van Biesen, the Council of Ministers of 26 September 2009 decided to centralise the distributed printing infrastructure of the FPS Finance in order to increase efficiency and, of course, to reduce costs. Fedopress is responsible for printing and sending all, often personal and confidential, what is called volume documents, such as the hit notes. Since 2012, all federal administrations have been able to use Fedopress' services in the broad sense of the word. Fedopress depends on the logistics department of the FPS Finance and is subject to the mechanisms of management control and internal control. The machinery and staff are paid by the FPS Finance. Other federal government agencies intervene only for the variable costs incurred in carrying out the production, namely paper, printing forms, products, click prices, electricity and maintenance. These are purchased, including VAT, through public procurement, in accordance with current legislation in this area. Fedopress does not call on external firms to produce printed matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic150x.u24	Mr Minister, that does not, of course, mean that I do not have an answer to my question. If they produce prints for BIPT or the Home Office, for example, do they bill the raw materials with VAT? I'm not talking about the equipment and the staff. Of course they buy with VAT, like any government, but how do they bill it? Do they have a VAT number? Should they charge VAT? I also understand, of course, that certain private players might be able to carry out part of this work even cheaper than their own services. My question is, therefore, whether it is the responsibility of the public authorities to keep a printing company alive or to subsidise certain services which may be cheaper to provide by the private sector. My question is whether she works under the same conditions. You said it wasn't. The equipment and staff are paid by the FPS Finance and the other services pay only the paper and raw material. Is that billing with VAT?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic150x.u25	Mr Van Biesen, to be absolutely sure that I am giving you a correct answer, I will come back to this. I want to be absolutely sure of the accuracy of my answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic150x.u26	Mr. Secretary, I have an Antwerp day today. You'll have to forgive me. The financing of the diamond activity is at the heart of that activity, even more than the legal certainty you have taken the initiative on tax matters. The financing of the diamond requires not only knowledge of the diamond sector, but also credit that is competitive with Dubai, India or Israel. As a result of the financial crisis, the new European risk-weighted capital requirements have been tightened, making lending more difficult. Due to the imminent closure of the Antwerp Diamond Bank, clients are forced to open a commercial account with another bank. Exclusive clients of the ADB get until the end of May to fix this. Apparently, it is also very difficult to open a commercial dollar or euro account for diamond transactions with other Belgian banks without any credit. Especially the smaller diamondaires face difficulties. The diamond dealers with a foreign lead emigrate, because they can't do otherwise, to Tel Aviv, Dubai or even Mumbai. The diamondaires with Antwerp roots get no or no answer, even from the banks that were saved a few years ago with a lot of public support. We are talking about a sector that is important both locally and above ground. We are talking about 8 000 jobs. It would be 34 000 jobs derived. If this would trigger movements around trade, this will also have an impact on the upcoming carat tax. These questions have come from several discussions, Minister. I believe that exceptions have already been made at European level to the conditions imposed on State aid in the event of economic disruption. I know that the previous government has already tried with the European Union and the European Commission to request an exception and an extension of the Diamond Bank and therefore survival. That attempt didn't work out. Was anything done with this economic disruption at the time? If not, it seems to me to be trying to reopen the discussion with the European Commission and to consider whether, on the basis of this disruption, which might arise, an exception can be obtained and the Diamond Bank can be continued. Perhaps it is important that there is apparently a very negative attitude of the banking sector towards the diamond sector. It is even whispered that the OECD would advise against the banks, which seems rather strong to me. The rumor is, however, whispered. So I'm throwing it here. However, the fact is that it is difficult for the sector to obtain both funding and current accounts. My question is as follows. If the first option does not succeed, namely to reopen the conversation, can we perhaps start the conversation with the banks we control ourselves, in order to find a solution? I have another creative suggestion. I can see you laughing. You've probably read them already. A great deal has to do with the balance sheets of the banks. The value of the assets generated by the very high value trade is actually an insurance problem. Would it be possible to involve the Delcredere department in one way or another? In fact, it is a question of financing goods from different origins from far away and coming here in the meantime. There's no grip on those goods. It seems to me that it is a potential piste to involve the department of Delcredere. Are you therefore prepared to record this with the department of Delcredere?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic150x.u27	Mr President, Mr Van de Velde, you asked a lot of questions. Firstly, I will answer together the questions about possible commercial objections that Belgian banks would raise against opening bank accounts for diamond transactions and the possible OECD stance in this respect. I asked the National Bank of Belgium about this, which made it very clear to me that no one has so far informed the NBB of any commercial concerns raised by banks regarding the opening of bank accounts for diamond transactions. In the same vein, I have also been formally confirmed by the National Bank that it does not know that the OECD would have made a similar recommendation. I come to your question about the possible reasons why Belgian banks refuse to take over the activity of the ADB. Neither the National Bank nor the FSMA intervene directly in this. It is up to each individual bank to decide whether the opportunity is there for developing a particular activity. Of course, the National Bank, as a supervisor, is investigating whether a bank, which carries out or intends to carry out such activities, has the necessary professional knowledge, adapted organisation and financial standing to that end. Of course, this has nothing to do with the diamond sector in itself. This is a general rule which, of course, also applies to the sector you are talking about. In the past, the supervisor has also issued special instructions for the management of the specific risk derivatives linked to the financing of the diamond sector, which are still applicable and relevant today. These are primarily recommendations on sound management practices for lending to the diamond sector, taking into account the characteristics of the sector such as the need for appropriate safeguards and the avoidance of what is then called excessive stock financing. I have a brief and clear answer to your question about possible influence with Belfius and BNP Paribas. It is not up to the government, but to each individual bank, independent of its shareholder structure, to judge the opportunity for developing certain activities. As regards the European Commission and the Commission's ruling that the current shareholder of ADB is inciting the cancellation of the activities. Following the state aid granted by the federal and Flemish authorities in 2008/2009, KBC is implementing the European validated and strictly controlled restructuring programme. This restructuring plan imposes a number of important disinvestments, including KBC's participation in the Antwerp Diamond Bank. In the absence of candidates, the European Commission extended the original timing of the sale in 2011, but also decided that, if there were no sales, KBC should proceed to a rundown of the Antwerp Diamond Bank's activities. In 2014, the proposed sales to the Chinese group were ultimately cancelled, mainly due to concerns by the regulator. In line with the decision of the European Commission, KBC is now gradually and ordered to build credit files and other activities. This will be done, inter alia, through the proposed merger by absorption, which will include the Antwerp Diamond Bank in KBC Bank nv and the settlement of outstanding credit files within KBC Bank.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic150x.u28	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Unfortunately, I remain somewhat hungry in terms of solutions for the traders. I think we should look at that again. Nor did you answer my creative proposal on Delcredere.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic150x.u29	I'll think about that creatively.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic150x.u30	I would ask you to investigate this, if possible. I believe that this can provide a solution to the issue of guarantee, to which you rightly refer. My proposal, of course, is specifically aimed at one sector, I am aware of that, but it could be helpful.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic150x.u31	Mr Van Biesen, this is a very complicated question. Do not make your explanation too technical, as it is in the written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic150x.u32	The question is difficult, but the answer can simply be yes or no, Mr President. Mr Minister, my question concerns the withholding tax, which in certain cases still exists at the favourable rate of 15%, rather than the very heavy rate of 25%. It is referred to as the VVPRbis scheme, which was introduced from 1 July 2013. One of the conditions is that the dividends are paid or granted to shares acquired thanks to the new cash injection. A previous version of Article 269 also provided for a reduction in the withholding tax on dividends paid or granted to shares issued from 1 January 1994 to represent share capital and corresponding to contributions in cash. The first VVPR scheme was therefore abolished on 1 January 2013. Mr Minister, with regard to the first VVPR scheme, the tax administration accepted that shares resulting from the conversion of a claim, whatever its form, are considered as shares representing a contribution to money. Will the tax administration show the same willingness or goodwill with regard to the application of the new and current Article 269?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic150x.u33	Mr Van Biesen, you promised a short answer. I'll keep that up. The measure you are referring to is intended to attract new capital for SMEs. Only the contribution to money is envisaged. The conversion of a claim does not involve fresh money made available to the company. Therefore, capital increases resulting from the conversion of claims cannot qualify for that rule.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic150x.u34	So the answer is no?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic150x.u35	The answer is no, but with a little explanation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic150x.u36	Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic150x.u37	Mr President, Minister, this question concerns the new declaration form which was placed online yesterday and which can already be filled in. It is specifically about the box in which it is written ""Are the statutory details of the account at the central point of contact with the National Bank of Belgium reported?" In that box, a taxable person must declare his external accounts. It was always intended that the FPS Finance would send an invitation to all taxpayers who stated in the personal income tax declaration that they had a foreign account. The taxpayer would then have to communicate the name of the financial institution and the country where these foreign accounts were opened to the central point of contact. This notification was to be made within two months from the third day following the invitation sent by the FPS Finance and at the earliest within two months from 1 November 2014. However, according to certain taxable persons, these invitations were never sent. Mr Minister, I have the following questions. Are you aware of that? Will those invitations still be sent? Are there any taxpayers who, despite the fact that they have not received such an invitation, have reported their foreign accounts to the central point of contact? If so, can you tell us how much taxpayer did this?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic150x.u38	Mr President, Mr Van Biesen, pursuant to the law of 25 April 2014, the FPS Finance will in the near future send an invitation to the taxpayers concerned to communicate to the central point of contact with the National Bank of Belgium the data on foreign accounts, the existence of which is indicated in the personal income tax declaration for the tax years 2012 to 2014. These taxable persons will have two months from the third day following the invitation to submit this communication to the CAP. My administration today has no knowledge of the fact that taxpayers would have spontaneously communicated their foreign accounts to the CAP.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic150x.u39	Were those invitations sent?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic150x.u40	I have to check, but I don't think so.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic150x.u41	So the answer is no?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic150x.u42	Probably, but let's check it out. Then we're sure.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic150x.u43	Do I get an answer after that?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic150x.u44	Of course.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic150x.u45	Mr President, Minister, perhaps the answer to this question will be given in the programme law and my question is a little premature, but I would like to ask them today. The liquidation reserve can be set up for the first time in respect of tax year 2015. To Mr Wouters' oral question on this subject, you replied in February that the profit to be charged for the financial year must be transferred to one or more separate accounts of the liability and that it is of secondary importance in this respect to which separate account of the liability is precise. As a result, you confirm that it is possible to establish a separate sub-account within the statutory reserves that qualifies fiscally as a liquidation reserve. The federal government is now developing a scheme allowing SMEs to make their 2012 and 2013 profits eligible for the creation of a liquidation reserve. However, a company can only allocate every euro of its profits once. There are many SMEs that have already allocated part of their 2012 and 2013 profits, including to legal reserves. Mr Minister, does Article 184c of the Income Tax Code 1992 allow the legal reserves created from profits of 2012 and 2013 to be affected to book them on a sub-account that qualifies fiscally as a liquidation reserve? If the scheme is extended to the profits of 2012 and 2013, when does the period for calculating the period for maintaining the liquidation reserve begin? Is that also the closing date of the taxable period that coincides with the accounting year for which the amount of the profit to be allocated is clarified under the heading "Salary profit processing'? Suppose a taxpayer wishes to make maximum use of the liquidation reserve, is it correct to calculate the maximum investment reserve on the profit after the corporation tax of the three taxable periods?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic150x.u46	Mr President, Mr Van Biesen, the government has decided to extend the possibility provided for in the Programme Act of 19 December 2014 to the post-tax liquidation reserve to profits after tax for the financial years 2012-2013. The detailed arrangements for this enlargement are currently being worked out and will, of course, be discussed in detail later in this committee. Once all the modalities have been approved, it will be communicated and I will be able to answer your questions in more detail. However, I can already tell you that the period for the calculation of the period for the maintenance of the liquidation reserve is beginning to run from 2015 on the 2012 profits and from 2016 on the 2013 profits.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic150x.u47	Mr President, I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. [[microphone not enabled]] (...) will of course be clarified.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic150x.u48	Minister, it is interesting to consider two initiatives and see whether there are any overlaps or overlaps and whether one can be arranged with the other. It's specifically about the cayman tax. We all know the methodology proposed and the finality of the measure, including the declaration of foreign structures. There is also the initiative of the Assistance Directive at European level. Here, too, we are dealing with the automatic exchange of financial account data. There are also broad definitions, where expensive legal arrangements, such as trust funds, are integrated. They also want to further develop the OECD Reporting Standard. The translation of these objectives will also have to be done in Belgium by the end of this year. It is specifically about an intertwined approach to constructions in tax havens such as the Seychelles and the Cayman Islands. The intention is that the year after year is evolutionary and expanded. I also think it is important that the identification of natural and legal persons is made. It is also necessary to examine how the assets have been built up, where the social seats and residences are. The information must be transmitted automatically. These are matters listed in that assistance directive. That's why I have the following questions: When will the transposition of the Assistance Directive be discussed here? Is this linked to the effect of the caiman tax? Or should the Cayman tax precisely implement this directive? Does this coincide entirely with the Belgian level? Does this directive make the obligation to declare easier with a view to the Cayman tax? Will we set the bar a little higher with our idea of caiman tax compared to the European assistance directive? Is there any danger of overlap here, or will the two be dealt with together? Will one be a good European pupil and a good tax-justed pupil in this respect?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic150x.u49	Minister, you have been finalizing the Cayman tax for some time now, part 2. I understand that we will soon be discussing this in this committee within the framework of the programme law. The Cayman tax would apply from the 2016 tax year, revenue year 2015. According to some commentators who seem to be well informed or less well informed, the design of the Cayman tax would provide that the new tax system for legal constructions would be introduced retroactively. Meanwhile, in their 2014 tax return, 1 262 taxpayers reported that they were involved in a legal arrangement. You have already said in an answer to a parliamentary question from me that a control action in that framework can only be carried out at the earliest from the 2016 control period. I do not agree with that, Minister, because I do not think that anything prevents the administration from checking the declarations before they have been returned. I think this is more than desirable in cases where the administration has taken note of the fact that a taxpayer is involved in an offshore structure. That involvement seems to me to be a risk element that legitimizes a control action. Moreover, this is independent of the Cayman tax, which introduces a new tax regime and controls in this respect. This is about the origin of the power in the structures. I would have liked to have heard from you whether you can confirm that the design of Cayman tax provides for the retroactive introduction of the new tax regime for legal constructions. If so, can you explain that? What tax years will be taxed when the Cayman tax will be applied for the first time? With regard to the legal arrangements indicated, I would have liked to know if you are prepared to give the order to start earlier monitoring actions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic150x.u50	I will answer Mr Deseyn's questions first. The draft law regulating the communication of information on financial accounts by the Belgian financial institutions and the FPS Finance, in the framework of an automatic exchange of information at international level and for tax purposes, will be submitted to Parliament before the summer recess. Council Directive 2014/107/EU of 9 December 2014 amending Directive 2011/7/EU as regards mandatory automatic exchange of information in the field of taxation is implemented by this draft law. The draft law aims at communicating the financial information requested by Belgium to the competent authorities of the partner countries. The automatic exchange of financial information provided for in Directive 2014/107 transposes the standard established by the OECD on the automatic exchange of information on financial accounts in the field of taxation at European level. The exchange covers the different categories of investment income. The applicable standard requires the communication of information relating to natural persons, but also aims to limit the possibility whereby taxable persons use entities or legal arrangements to evade their reporting obligations, as the financial institutions of the participating countries will be obliged to look through screen companies, trusts and analogue structures, in order to identify the final stakeholders. As a result, the information received by Belgium in this context will enable the tax payers' declarations intended by the tax check to be verified and the persons who do not fulfil their reporting obligations to be effectively identified. The application of the Directive as amended and the use of the information received will thus make the Belgian scheme more efficient. Mr Vanvelthoven, the provisions relating to the look-through fee have no retroactive effect and apply to the revenue allocated to or payable by a legal arrangement from 1 January 2015. As regards the withholding tax or the withholding tax, this is paid or payable on the income from the first day of the month following publication in the Belgian Official Journal. It is true that, from a legal point of view, nothing prevents the administration from checking declarations before the collection. However, as you have already been informed, on the one hand, the available data are not yet definitive and on the other hand all the elements relating to the organisation of a possible control action need to be examined. I would also remind you that for the 2014 attacking year, the administration has an investigation and attack period which expires on 31 December 2016, in order to effectively carry out any necessary checks and corrections. This period may also be extended by four years in the case of infringements committed with fraudulent intent or for the purpose of harm. I therefore think it would be premature to launch a monitoring action on this issue in 2015.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic150x.u51	Ladies and gentlemen, the Minister must leave at the latest at 6:00 p.m. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Vanvelthoven's 3722 has been converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic150x.u52	Mr President, Minister, a few days ago, a newspaper in the north of the country mentioned the fact that an arms trade would be organised from Ostend airport to Libya. According to Libyan sources, the weapons transported would benefit the Islamist coalition opposed to the official Libyan government. Clearly, United Nations inspectors have also reportedly raised suspicions about Ostend. Indeed, it is reported that, at the end of last year, "suspect objects" would have been pointed at loading vouchers. The United Nations reportedly asked the Belgian authorities for explanations, which would then not have found any anomalies. Mr Minister, do you confirm the information that the United Nations has contacted the Belgian authorities regarding possible questions about shipments from Ostend? What action has been taken by the Belgian authorities, the Ostend airport, the customs service and the intelligence services? Does Customs have sufficient means to effectively control this type of suspicious cargo? How can we ensure the final destination of such arms shipments, for example in transit?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic150x.u53	Mr Crusnière, my department has not been contacted by the United Nations about this transport to Ostend. Following a security exercise, full control of goods destined for Libya was made mandatory. Goods remaining on board the aircraft are, in principle, not subject to customs control. Actions are envisaged to ensure that all goods, including those remaining on board, are physically, randomly or on the basis of a calculated risk analysis. This will be achieved through the use of technical means and scan equipment, in particular backscatters.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic150x.u54	Minister, thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic150x.u55	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Philippe Blanchart's 3742 was postponed to the next meeting. Mrs Els Van Hoof is not present and her question No. 3744 is deleted. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Konrad Degroote's 3760 will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic150x.u56	Mr President, Minister, two years ago the previous government introduced the evil called "fairness tax", by imposing a 5.15% contribution on the distribution of dividends by multinationals. I am not saying that this tax is wrong because the objective was null and void, but because the scheme was inoperative and did not meet the stated objectives. This seems to be confirmed since, for the 2014 budget year, while your predecessor expected a return of €215 million, according to the Finance FPS calculations, the proceeds of the said tax would be capped at only €100 million. According to a tax expert interviewed on the subject, multinationals "have made sure that they are no longer under the conditions that pave the way for this tax". I draw attention here to the fact that a tax that is easily circumventable is not a good tax. Minister, do you confirm that the performance of the fairness tax for 2014 is significantly lower than your predecessor's forecast? What amount does it amount to? Do you confirm the figure of EUR 100 million? What is the expected recipe for 2015? What strategies have companies used to avoid this tax? Are you considering reforming the scheme in order to make it more effective?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic150x.u57	Mr President, Minister, the previous government introduced a minimum corporate tax a few years ago in order to prevent large multinationals from escaping tax. Clearly, this minimum tax did not achieve the expected return in 2014. Some large companies would have sought and found the parade to avoid this tax. This is obviously not a civic behaviour and it would be necessary to remedy it. Minister, do you confirm the poor performance of the fairness tax? Do you confirm the information about an adjustment on the part of businesses in order to avoid this tax? What strategies have been put in place? Don't you think it would be important for you to act to address these tax avoidance behaviours that, in addition to being completely incivious, have a negative impact on the state budget?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic150x.u58	Gentlemen, the fairness tax system was introduced by the Act of 30 July 2013. This plan applies from the 2014 tax year. With respect to the budgetary revenues from this measure, all corporate tax contributions have not yet been enrolled and the control periods have not yet expired, so it is premature to draw definitive conclusions regarding the performance of the measure for the 2014 tax year. However, on the basis of the first data, a review of the return on this tax is required. For the time being, the tax administration expects a return of EUR 100 million for the 2014 tax year. An update of the above-mentioned performance will be possible in the course of September 2015. As the monitoring of the application of this provision for the 2014 tax year is still ongoing, it is currently not possible to draw any lessons in this regard. In general, legal and regulatory provisions in tax matters are subject to ongoing evaluation by the Finance FPS. At this stage, and in view of the answers to the previous questions, there are no plans to amend the legislation on fairness tax.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic150x.u59	Thank you, Minister. We haven't learned much more. I think that, in order to correct our corporate tax system, we had to work first and foremost on the notional interests that create this problem of non-taxation of certain companies, particularly multinationals. The path that has been chosen does not seem to me the right one, not that these actors should not be involved, but that must be done differently.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic150x.u60	Minister, thank you for the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic150x.u61	It's 5:55 p.m. Mr Laaouej, Mr Gilkinet and Mr Vanvelthoven are still present.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic150x.u62	Mr President, Minister, we learned a few weeks ago that the government wants to introduce a tax on the diamond sector, also known as a "carat tax". The government's argument is that this would raise EUR 50 million, instead of the amount of EUR 20 million that would be the current contribution of the diamond sector to corporate tax. However, part of this sector has already shown that it has little to do with its contribution to Belgian society. In recent months, massive tax fraud in the diamond sector has been the headlines. It would probably have been better to continue to provide the necessary resources for the tax administration, including the Special Inspectorate of Taxes, to monitor this sector effectively and regularly. A few days ago, the press told us that this new tax would be 0.55% on sales. The sector would no longer benefit from notional interests. The net margin in this sector is estimated to be between 1% and 1.5%. Minister, I am rather puzzled by this announcement. Has there been an agreement with the diamond sector on this tax? If so, what is this agreement about? Can you tell us the terms? Has the Special Inspectorate of Taxes been consulted or has it given an opinion on the proposal you are making? To what extent will monitoring and surveillance of this sector be strengthened? Could you tell us where this low profit margin of 1 to 1.5% comes from? How is it determined? You are talking about turnover tax because notional interest can no longer be charged; but can other transactions in the calculation of corporate tax be imputed to the result obtained before and after the application of the rate of 0.55%?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic150x.u63	Minister, I asked you from the moment you left the conclave about the nature of this "diamond" tax. You told me at the time that she was still under study but that we were moving towards a flat-rate turnover tax. Since then, according to articles published on 21 April in the Standaard and Le Soir, we know the tax rate to which the turnover of these companies will be subject, namely 0.55%. However, it is customary for companies to be taxed on their profits and not on their turnover. It is therefore surprising that there is a derogation in favour of a sector which already enjoys many other advantages. In any event, this new regime raises a number of questions and raises questions in particular with regard to the tax burden on SMEs, which create local employment. Minister, can you tell me what the tax system currently applied to diamond dealers, in terms of VAT and corporate tax, is? What is its origin? Do you confirm that you intend to apply a tax rate of 0.55% of its turnover from now on? What justifies such a different method of taxation than that applied to all other undertakings? What counterparts have been discussed with the sector in the context of the implementation of this tax? Have transparency commitments been made by the diamond sector? Have any fiscal peace commitments been made by the government to the sector? What control mechanisms will the FPS Finance still have in relation to this sector? Has the government requested and obtained an agreement from the European Commission on this new taxation? If not, will the Commission be asked about this specific scheme?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic150x.u64	Mr President, Minister, we have indeed understood that during budgetary control the government decided to introduce a separate tax regime for the diamond sector, i.e. no longer a tax on profits, which is the usual way of taxing companies, but a tax on sales, carat tax or diamond tax. It is a proposal that the diamond industry has been running around since 2012. In the Antwerp Diamond Masterplan they formulated this themselves. The previous government has kept that from happening. This government is now following the proposal of the diamond sector. Soon we will discuss it, as soon as we have the text. However, I understand that the administration would have taken a position in a note addressed to you, warning that the switch from a profit tax to a turnover tax or flat-rate tax could lead to increased fraud sensitivity. I would have liked to have heard from you whether you could explain what is in the note and whether this committee and the Members of Parliament could have access to that note in preparation for the substantive discussion that we are about to have.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic150x.u65	Gentlemen, the government decided, at its budgetary conclave last March, to increase the diamond sector's tax contribution by an overall net annual amount of EUR 50 million. To draw up this project, we have met with the sector and we still want to meet with the European Commission. I am sorry that not always accurate or incorrect information is already circulating in the press. Currently, diamond companies are subject to the common corporate tax system. In addition, approved diamond companies which have in the past updated their inventory against the payment of a 4.5% contribution are currently liable for an additional 10% contribution in the event of non-compliance with the condition of unavailability imposed in this respect. These contributions are not deductible for professional expenses. I would point out that this regime was introduced by the Act of 26 November 2006. So it is certainly not the first time that a government has taken a measure that only applies to the diamond sector. In view of the particularities of the sector, previous governments have also taken such initiatives. I can only point out that the fact is that the diamond sector will contribute much more tax than ever before. At the risk of being a little technical, I can remind you that the VAT Code exempts from tax since 1971: first, the delivery of fine pearls, gems and similar goods made to persons who are exclusively traders in these goods, as well as inter-Community imports and acquisitions of these goods made by those traders; secondly, the provision of services relating to these goods supplied to the same persons. In establishing this exemption scheme, the legislator wanted to avoid a large tax credit to the traders concerned, knowing that, if the transactions were subject to tax, they would be deductible. In addition, diamond sales by such traders are most often destined abroad, since they are exempt from VAT in the case of exports of intra-Community deliveries. In these circumstances, the periodic VAT declarations of these traders could give rise to a systematic VAT credit which would be subject to refund without special arrangements. Mr Vanvelthoven, you can rest assured. We have taken into account the different views expressed for the development of this project. The aim is for the diamond sector to contribute to our country's tax regime in the most correct way possible. I would ask you for some patience for the draft that will be proposed and discussed in this committee under the programme law. I'll ask you, too, gentlemen. Laaouej and Gilkinet, to wait a little longer to discover the project that will be presented and discussed in this commission within the framework of the program law. You will then be able to find answers to your questions and discover the different modalities of this contribution from the diamond sector. The notification package for Europe will start very soon. We have already had informal contacts.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic150x.u66	So, a call to patience, Mr. Laaouej.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic150x.u67	Mr President, we will see more clearly when we have the text on the practical arrangements. At the same time, I was asking the minister about the existence of a protocol signed with the sector, as at the time the government had done for the Horeca. A protocol had been signed with this sector in exchange for a reduction in the VAT rate. Obviously, I haven't had any answers yet. I will therefore come back with the question. In the same way, and we had talked about it at the beginning of our committee work, obviously the Special Tax Inspectorate was not re-solicited on the new bill in draft. I wonder whether this has not been done. That's a little too bad. Is there not a structural underestimation of turnover and reported profits? Rather than a flat-rate tax, should the means of verification in this sector not be redeployed? This is done in other sectors, such as casinos, where there is a quasi-permanent presence of the tax administration. Why, in the diamond sector, could we not have a deployment of the same nature given the extent of the fraud found there? I will come back to that in the debate on the bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic150x.u68	Minister, as you did in plenary, you are trying to get us to take jackets for lanterns, that is to say, to try to show us that there will be an additional contribution from the diamond sector when it will benefit from a regime of favour that other sectors of the economy could claim tomorrow. It is a sector that is particularly sensitive to fraud issues, as some cases have shown. This can only appear as a resignation of the FPS Finance and the Minister of Finance in their mission of good tax collection. Because it is difficult to assess the benefits of the sector because it organises itself to avoid taxation, we will grant it a concessional regime. We have to think the opposite way and ask ourselves how we can ensure that this sector, which is certainly very important, contributes to the financing of collective functions, to the extent of its benefits. I was very interested in reading your administration's opinion on the subject, which, in itself, was surprised that it had not been asked by the government for an opinion on the subject! This is not a good way to work and you are announcing that it will be drowned in a program law. I wonder, in relation to the symbolic importance of this text, whether it would not be more appropriate to take on this legislative act and to propose a text on this taxation on the diamond sector. In general, when you slip something into a program law, you have things to hide or you don't want to take on. I have seen this since I worked in this Finance Committee in 2007. If you can still change something, it is to assume with the government this tax system, which is a concessional scheme!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic150x.u69	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. I will only be pleased when you tell me to be able to assure me that you have taken into account the different views of the administrations. But in order to have a good debate in Parliament, it would be useful if we too could have the notes from the administration. I said this earlier in connection with the work on the tax shift. You had to think about that. Mr President, I would like to advocate that we have all the documents that are now with the Minister in the debate and which lead him to the draft he is preparing. The documents must enable Parliament to conduct the debate properly and to make the right decision.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic150x.u70	The remaining questions will be discussed next Wednesday.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic150x.u71	Mr President, I would like to ask my question. Turn 3770 into a written question, if I can get the answer now. [[Assent]]
