ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-10-54-plenair-ip085x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-10-54-plenair-ip085x.u2	At the request of the Government, I propose to you the draft law amending the Law of 15 December 1980 on entry into the territory, residence, establishment and expulsion of foreign nationals, No. 1506/1, to be entered on the agenda of this afternoon's plenary session. At the request of the Government, I propose that you include in the agenda of this afternoon's plenary session the bill amending the Act of 15 December 1980 on the entry, residence, establishment and removal of aliens, No. 1506/1. Mrs. Sarah Smeyers will report orally. Sarah Smeyers will report orally. I have received amendments to this bill. I have received amendments to this bill. I propose that these amendments be sent back to the Committee on the Interior, General Affairs and the Public Prosecutor, who will meet immediately during the oral questions. I propose that you refer these amendments to the Committee on the Interior, General Affairs and the Civil Service, which will meet immediately during the oral questions. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-10-54-plenair-ip085x.u3	Mr President, I shall make two points. For groups that cannot attend both meetings, this is unacceptable in terms of democracy. We are waiting in plenary for in-depth debate on the bills. We are gradually becoming accustomed to the government's strength. Groups with fewer than five Members must be allowed to exercise their democratic rights. We have to stop the world's "sniffing out of the face," excuse me!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-10-54-plenair-ip085x.u4	Mr Hedebouw, I am afraid there is no solution to this problem. I'm afraid you'll have to make a choice. The decision on this approach was taken by consensus in the Conference of Presidents, hence.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-10-54-plenair-ip085x.u5	Mr President, excuse me, it is a consensus among the parties present in committee that is being achieved despite us. For unrepresented groups, this is not the case! I have a very simple technical solution: put it on the agenda next week. Today, Thursday, 2:15 p.m., and we have no idea of the exact agenda for next week's work, nor of the bills that the government is going to propose to us, particularly in connection with the tax shift and the nuclear rent. We cannot do our parliamentary work properly. I am counting on you to defend the interests of the smallest groups, please!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-10-54-plenair-ip085x.u6	Mr. Hedebouw, that was my second announcement. After the plenary session, there will be a Conference of Presidents. Immediately after the plenary session, we are holding a Conference of Presidents, precisely in order to achieve what you have designated in relation to the tax shift, energy and so on. I will have you and the other small groups immediately informed of the decisions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-10-54-plenair-ip085x.u7	Mr President, Minister, you once missed a high-speed train to Osaka. What we do not intend to miss in our country, neither we nor you, is the high-speed train of e-commerce. Furthermore, you and the government have repeatedly promised us that you would enter that high-speed economic train before 1 January 2016. Today is December 10th, and we still have 21 days until December 31st. That gives us 14 days before we're ready for the turkey. While we are sitting on the turkey, we do not want to establish that we export wealth and jobs abroad. The Netherlands is abroad in this matter. We won't. The Netherlands looks at us like a thirteenth province, which can stay the night. They will take the jobs, prosperity and commerce. We will not allow that. You have increased the locomotive of the economic high-speed train of the e-commerce, by putting some cars on it. For us too, social dialogue must be possible, if it is constructive, if it brings added value and if there is serious work to be done on an agreement. Unfortunately, however, we have to note that this is not happening today. In view of the foregoing and the calendar, I have the following questions, Minister. How does your initiative develop bilaterally? What is your plan of action to ensure that the promise is implemented, in particular that in 2016 we will give the e-commerce high-speed train every opportunity to fly? If we do not, we will lose prosperity and jobs in our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-10-54-plenair-ip085x.u8	Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask that the oral questions be listened to and that the talks be held in all kinds of other places in this building; there is room for that. Should we be able to listen to each other, we might be able to learn something from that too. Isn't that right, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister? You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-10-54-plenair-ip085x.u9	Mr President, I shall be brief. Mrs Ceysens, it is true that the trains in Japan are running on a punctual basis; if you arrive there a few seconds late, the train has already left. Thank you for reminding me again. This could perhaps lead to a different debate with other questions. However, that was not at the heart of your question. At the heart of your question is e-commerce. You started the train and you ended up flying. One thing is clear: until the end of this year we have had the opportunity to resolve this by means of social dialogue. I understand you're getting a little impatient. I am also, by the way, because I would like to find a solution on a case-by-case basis as soon as possible, especially in this case. You yourself said that today is 10 December, which is right, and that we have until 31 December, as agreed; that is right. Those 14 days and that turkey are irrelevant. It is important, however, that we have strongly encouraged the social partners to reach an agreement. In one joint committee, in particular the distribution and retail sector, there was a serious problem which blocked business. I do not know which game is played by whom, but I am convinced that an agreement between the social partners and the introduction of night work can boost e-commerce. I agree with you that it is better to regulate it in that way than through one sentence in the law. We have until 31 December and until then I will work hard to convince the social partners with the arguments you are raising, such as employment. If that does not work, I will draw the consequences and see what we will do, because clear agreements were made in the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-10-54-plenair-ip085x.u10	Minister, it is good that you used clear language and said that the promise remains what it is. Sometimes that is important, because one could raise questions with politicians and with promises made, and assume that the turkey may not be eaten as hot as it is served. Well, I can tell you that the turkey is hot on your plate and time is ticking. There is your renewed promise and we are all looking forward to the end of the year. As of 1 January 2016, we will wake up in Belgium, e-commerce country.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-10-54-plenair-ip085x.u11	Minister, you proposed that people who are ill should get back to work more quickly by financially punishing them. A sick person who would not participate in your plan would lose 10% of his benefit. You know that we do not agree with that, Minister. Honestly, I don't think I'd be much better off if I had a burnout and someone forced me to get back to work soon without being cured. You're gonna make me fall back faster and stay home longer. You have now asked for the opinion of the social partners of the Group of Ten, which is a good thing, because it is the employers' organizations and the workers' organizations that will eventually have to implement it. They also know the situation best. They have now reached an agreement. They also say that you better wait for the voluntary return to a job, or to the current job. My question is very simple, Minister. I've had to ask you several times this year. Will you accept the agreement of the social partners or not?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-10-54-plenair-ip085x.u12	Mr President, Prime Minister, the least we can say about this is that the government has at least divergent positions. You plead for the voluntary return of long-term sick, disabled and disabled people. And your government colleague's royal decree goes in another direction, since this is a mandatory return, with a very clear sanction to the key if the return to work is not done. Faced with such divergent positions by the government, we welcome the responsibility of all the social partners, who have been able to agree on a common and above all intelligent position. It would be crazy if a sick person, simply because they no longer have a contract with an employer, were automatically considered a carrot, a cheater, which one of the two royal decrees of the government, sent to the social partners, advocated. My question is very simple: will this government respect and implement the full agreement of yesterday's G10 or not?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-10-54-plenair-ip085x.u13	Mr. Speaker, Mr.Minister, I had addressed this question to the Prime Minister, but it was referred back to you. Why? Because, last night, we learned from the press that the social partners told you and Minister De Block about the results of their negotiations and the common sense agreement they had reached. It was also said that you had decided to defend this agreement before the members of the government. A little later, we heard representatives of the N-VA, members of your government, saying that they wanted to recall what they call "accountability", that is, the forced return to work, with sanctions for those who would not. Will this government follow the common sense agreement of the social partners, who have understood well, both workers and employers, that for occupational reintegration to work, there must be an improvement in the health of the worker, which is within the medical field, but also a mobilization of the worker, the employer for the adaptation of working time and of the workplaces, and also of colleagues? The penalty is of no use but to exclude and exhaust workers and employers. I hope the Prime Minister has given you his answer because what I want is the government's position. Yours, we've known her since yesterday.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-10-54-plenair-ip085x.u14	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin with a series of situations. The Government received the Group of Ten on 15 October 2015 with an agreement on the supplementary pension. In fact, we have done this in full, as the social partners have asked us to do. There were two issues that the social partners had not yet resolved, in particular economic unemployment and the reintegration of long-term ill. We have told the social partners, in consultation with everyone, that they should sit down and try to reach agreement on these two issues themselves. We have given them the time until the end of November, but we are generous and would give extra time if necessary. The social partners in the Group of Ten have concluded two agreements. Yesterday, they presented Mr Maggie de Block and myself with these two agreements. For those who still think that the social partners are unable to reach agreements, here is proof, there are two. Something about time, but with extensions they have concluded those agreements. The first concerns alternative savings in temporary unemployment. They have put forward concrete proposals for strengthening the special RSZ contributions through the mobilisation contributions and the fight against abuses. That is a very clear agreement they have reached. The second agreement concerns the reintegration of long-term ill. You know that it is a shared competence of my colleague Maggie De Block and myself to take further steps. They have also reached an agreement on this issue. Mrs Fonck, the agreement is very clear: we are going to organise a multi-disciplinary system on a voluntary basis. We have also negotiated on costs, etc. That is the content of both agreements. I understand you'd like to provoke a verdict. In the federal government, we agreed to communicate as soon as possible. Tomorrow there will be a meeting of the core and the Council of Ministers. We are continuing to work until the end of the year to bring this to the government table as soon as possible. We shall consider how this should be interpreted. The Prime Minister has already said here that we are very sensitive to agreements between the social partners, but I hope you will also give us time to look at this dossier in the federal government. We will then take decisions which are possible on the basis of both agreements. I hope that the social partners will conclude a great deal of social agreements in the next few days and after, because I think it is a very strong signal. I cannot currently answer the question of the government's position because it was agreed to discuss this in the government over the next few days.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-10-54-plenair-ip085x.u15	Mr Minister, to all those who doubt that agreements can still be concluded between the social partners, you say that this is proof of the contrary. For the sake of clarity, I never doubted that. However, I doubt the commitment of this government to implement the agreements of the social partners. You have to ask yourself what you're doing. Is it intended to implement the agreements of the social partners? They know the situation on the ground best. It's about long-term sick people who want you to return to their own job or who want to give you another job. You have nothing to do with forcing sick people or forcing employers to take in sick people they don't want. There is an agreement that wants to focus on the voluntary nature. I would ask you to simply accept this agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-10-54-plenair-ip085x.u16	Mr Deputy Prime Minister, thank you for this extraordinary answer, which is not one! In a way, you just started the festivities. I'm not going to try to convince a convinced man. That is why I addressed the question to the Prime Minister and not to you. The Prime Minister did not respond. There's no agreement. There's no decision yet. I can hear it. Instead, I would like to turn to the other colleagues of your majority. For long-term patients, disabled people, disabled people, the important thing for you is first of all their label: either they still have a contract with an employer or they are unemployed. In the background, you only look at that. But the stakes are not there. The challenge is first and foremost to consider their illness and their ability to return to the labour market. I am sure that there are long-term patients and people with disabilities who will accept and move towards reintegration into work. Stay on a voluntary basis and without sanction. It will be eminently more respectful and, I believe, eminently more effective than all the convoluted formulas you can imagine.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-10-54-plenair-ip085x.u17	Deputy Prime Minister, I see that the Prime Minister did not give you his answer and that you are embarrassed with my question. You will have to say and remember the importance of the agreements between the social partners and your hope that agreements that respect both employers and workers will be implemented; in fact, in your government today there is no consensus to respect the agreements that would be reached between the partners. This is a way of minimizing their importance in the consultation processes. If you do not comply with this agreement, it means that obsessive fantasies of accountability, punishment and exclusion outweigh a true will to work for all and working conditions that allow everyone, at any age, to occupy a suitable work place, so as to avoid a constant increase in the number of workers with disabilities. You don't pay attention to these things.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-10-54-plenair-ip085x.u18	Mr Minister, 60 years after King Baudouin gave a gift to the Saudi king Faisal 2000 square metres in the Cinquantenaire Park through a lease agreement, the traditional political family has finally woken up. It has been realized that something is going wrong with that Great Mosque in the Cinquantenary Park, led by the Islamic Cultural Center that depends on the Muslim World League. Meanwhile, they hold a third of all mosques. They are also financed through that centre. Hundreds of Muslim teachers were thus eventually appointed and trained. Same thing for hundreds of imams preaching everywhere. But now maybe we're gonna close that mosque. My question to you is what is happening now. Is that lease agreement broken or not? That's your jurisdiction, the control of the Buildings. Will there only be a non-binding investigation to cover up the case permanently? Minister, closing a mosque will not make a difference, but it would at least be a symbolic act. However, be aware that it will not be much more than symptom control. Through the Muslim World League and this central mosque they have been able to radicalize young people for sixty years. We have been able to spread the salafistic and wahabitic message. About a third of all mosques were owned and financed, with all the consequences. The problem is much deeper, you know. Mosques are hate palaces, mosques are military barracks from which the jihad is organized against our society. So there will have to be much deeper and much harder cuts than just in that one mosque. Today, I would be pleased if you, as Minister of the Interior, had the courage to do that one symbolic act and at the very least to break the lease agreement with this mosque.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-10-54-plenair-ip085x.u19	Mr Dewinter, first there are a few points on the i. The transfer agreement was made not only with Saudi Arabia but also with Morocco. So there are three parties, the Government of the Buildings, Morocco and Saudi Arabia. One of the government's 18 measures is indeed to monitor all mosques closely and to close mosques where necessary if they are indeed breeding grounds for hate preaching and for imams with bad intentions. This is one of the 18 measures that will be transposed into a legal framework as soon as possible. Following the questions that were asked or the theories that were taken about the famous Grand Mosque at the Jubilee Park, I asked the Security of the State to do a survey and to report to me what is happening in that mosque. Can't you accept that? I can be quite clear on this: on the basis of the State Security Report, I will take a decision on this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-10-54-plenair-ip085x.u20	Minister, for 60 years this mosque has been sowing through all its secondary organizations, including the King Fahd Complex, which publishes the books, including in Dutch... Your State Security does not seem to have that at all, but I have, for some time now, thanks, among other things, to Peter Velle's association of ex-Muslims. The path of the Muslim was published by the Great Mosque and, like all other writings in Dutch, spread over dozens and dozens of mosques. In that book you can read how to throw homosexuals from high roofs and tall buildings, how women should wear the burqa, if not stoned in adultery and the like. You and your State Security should read that book. Then you will know that we should not have waited 60 years to do what had to be done and that we should not have waited until today. At the moment, this mosque, with its tentacles and organizations, holds about one third of all mosques in Flanders and Belgium. She finances and supplies the imams and teachers of Islamic religion. That is the reality today. Today, you're going to study and we need a report from State Security. What have these State Security and your services actually done in the last 60 years? Waiting for the attacks in Paris and the Jewish Museum to act? That is truly unheard of. I'm not gonna take that answer. That mosque needs to be shut down immediately, today.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-10-54-plenair-ip085x.u21	Mr. President, Minister, recently, the Prime Minister called for a national union to combat terrorism. All parties have acceded to it. Today, there is evidence that some are riding alone and going from their opposition. The press reported the latest and not least: the recruitment of many police officers. I subscribed to it. That's a very good thing! But police officers who do not have one of our national languages and do not require a diploma, is that reasonable? Are the consequences of such a proposal being measured? A few months ago, the press reported an infiltration of the Brussels police. In addition, in the latest cases, a police officer was arrested for links, it seems, with the Islamist and radicalized milieu. During the searches in Verviers, uniforms of police officers were found in the personal effects of alleged terrorists. So, Minister, are you going to have access to the approach of your majority partner, who will provoke many reactions and appeals, so much will the discrimination between candidates who will apply to the police? I am convinced that in the long run this will cause problems. Do we want a quality font without being levelled down? What scares me is that at the next stage, I would not like to see the same procedure followed in order to supplement the State Security force.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-10-54-plenair-ip085x.u22	Mr President, Mr Carcaci, the general conditions of eligibility for selection for police officers, the various police functions and the selection and recruitment procedures are established and known. I don't intend to level them down. Not at all! This is not a guideline for the police. Moreover, some argue that, in order to combat radicalism and violent extremism, a diversity within the police force is appropriate. That's why I launched the pilot project in Antwerp, whereby we're going to recruit, look for candidates to join the police, not change standards. The aim is to convince candidates to join the police and participate in the exams. This pilot project will last two years. After the first six months, an evaluation will take place and perhaps we can extend this project to other cities. I have received requests from Ghent, Vilvoorde and some Brussels municipalities as well. In the event of a positive evaluation after six months, we will be able to increase the number of participating cities. In any case, I confirm to you that we will not lower the standards to enter the police.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-10-54-plenair-ip085x.u23	Minister, thank you for your answers. We must take strong measures, but above all measures that reassure our fellow citizens. This is very important and our fellow citizens deserve it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-10-54-plenair-ip085x.u24	Mr President, Minister, following the mission from B-FAST to Nepal a good six months ago, you promised the Chamber an evaluation of that mission to Nepal and to B-FAST. As Mr Ceysen has just calculated, the year will end within 21 days. That is why we come back with that question. Today an article was published in Gazet van Antwerpen and in other newspapers. The title of the article reads: "Audit makes firewood from organisation B-FAST.' That's not nothing. I can only base myself on the article, because that is all we have at the moment. The article states that the intervention team of B-FAST, which expands in the event of foreign disasters and crises, is itself in crisis. The problem seems to lie in the cumbersome structure, coordination, organisation and communication between some people. Despite this lack of organisation, B-FAST has been successful. These successes are due to the commitment of individual employees during the projects on the ground. Minister, I would say that you are lucky to be able to appeal to such a large group of people, which still makes it possible to achieve success. There was a remarkable case in that article, a matter that bothered our group. I open the newspaper to quote correctly: "Various parties report situations of material disappearances and suspicions of personal use of material." I therefore refer to the question raised by our group last summer about the cost of the missions. That is why I have three questions for you. Firstly, when can we, as Members of Parliament, look into this audit? Secondly, what are the comments in the audit? What measures are you going to take and what measures are you going to take? Thirdly, you will investigate these allegations, and if so, how?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-10-54-plenair-ip085x.u25	Mr President, Mrs Bellens, first of all I would like to thank all the volunteers from B-FAST for their commitment during the various interventions of the past few years. It is very important to stress this. The success of B-FAST is due to the actions of the volunteers. After the intervention in Nepal, we said that we would do an evaluation. An audit is part of an evaluation. Yesterday there was an Inter-Kabinette working group and the next day an element of this evaluation takes the press. That's always the case in Belgium. That's nothing new. I will go to the government with the audit and with other elements of the evaluation to decide on a real reform of B-FAST. I said that yesterday in the Committee on External Relations. We're working on the evaluation, and I'll get the Chamber some more documents. I hope this will be possible before the end of the year. A second phase followed, with a real restructuring of B-FAST. I asked for an independent audit. It is normal that there are criticisms about the organisation of a team. I am going to the government with an evaluation, which will include other elements besides the audit, and then I will come to Parliament for the next phase, the restructuring of B-FAST.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-10-54-plenair-ip085x.u26	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your reply. We look forward to that evaluation. You're saying there might be one before the end of the year. That means you don't have much time left. I am free to make some suggestions for the evaluation. Perhaps you could look at how things work abroad and see if we can work more closely with civil society. I did not get an answer to my question about the cost. My group believes that such serious accusations should be investigated. The N-VA Group will table a resolution requesting an audit by the Court of Auditors.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-10-54-plenair-ip085x.u27	Mr President, Minister, of course I am not going to ask you to comment on the substance of the matter. That would make no sense inasmuch as it is a question of telephone contacts between Salah Abdeslam and a prisoner in Namur prison. However, given the flow of information that we are drinking daily, it seems to me important to take stock of the situation in prisons, a situation which the population does not understand well. Minister, in principle, detainees cannot have a cell phone in their cell. However, in the light of contacts I have had with prison guards, it seems that this rule is not respected. In doing so, is it effectively prohibited for an inmate to have a gsm in his cell? What procedures are in place for monitoring and searching cells? As has already been mentioned, would it not be interesting to have an external body in charge of the control of the cells, knowing that it may be difficult for the guards to carry out these searches because of the pressures that may exist or because this may affect the relationship between the detainees and the guards? In addition, the public may also be surprised at the way in which one enters a prison to visit an inmate. A problem may arise to the extent that it is necessary to be able to consider both individual cases and the observance by all of the rules of a State governed by the rule of law. What is the control of family members? To the best of my knowledge, in this case, a piece of identification or a document establishing the family link is sufficient. What documents are required by the prison management for visitors who are not part of the inmate's family? I am referring to the problem that we would have had in Namur prison. What about when a prison visitor is listed and listed on the Ocam? Are the prison authorities informed of this? Is it true that the Directorate-General for Prisons has this list and that it is up to the Directorate-General to decide whether or not to transmit the information? What should be the reaction of the prison management if the prison manager knows that it is a registered person? What follow-up is given to this type of prison visit?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-10-54-plenair-ip085x.u28	Mr President, my colleague, it is indeed forbidden for detainees to have a gsm in their cells. Prison wards are supposed to make regular sweatings, i.e. searches in the cells. When it turns out that an inmate has a gsm, he is subject to a disciplinary investigation. As you heard in the media, an investigation will also be conducted to determine how he received this gsm. With regard to the right of access, parents and relatives (spouse, guardian) can always have access by showing their identity card. If there are customized indications that this visit could pose a serious threat to law and order or security, the visit is refused, even to relatives. In the case of third parties, friends, visits are in principle not granted where there is no legitimate interest. In the present case, Mr. Abdeslam allegedly justified a bond of friendship and was not denied access. He visited twice, in August and October 2015, a detainee at Namur prison. At that time, there was no further investigation into him by the Federal Public Prosecutor's Office, which closed his case on 9 June 2015. He was still on the Ocam list under category 5, but only the central prison administration has this list, precisely to control the detainees but not the visitors. I hope that in the coming months we will be able to vote on this new law which introduces a dynamic database on a "need to know" basis. This will provide prison administrations with access to this database to monitor both visitors and detainees.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-10-54-plenair-ip085x.u29	Mr Minister, I thank you for clarifying these few technical points on the one hand and for having already launched the debates for the future, so that the controls will take place inside and outside of the visitors and the people visited.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-10-54-plenair-ip085x.u30	Mr President, Madam Minister, this issue has already been raised in a question to Mr Kris Peeters. My party is concerned about the career reintegration of long-term patients on a voluntary basis. You said in committee on 1 December that sanctions could be imposed, but that you were open to voluntary action. However, the N-VA and your own party are not taking advantage of this solution, as they advocate a compulsory path of reintegration. I therefore hope that you will be able to influence the Open Vld so that it follows the terms of the agreement concluded by the social partners. The mandatory nature of the reintegration route has, quite logically, an impact on the formulation of budgets. The measures announced by the government were intended to save 51.5 million for the employee scheme. The Court of Auditors noted that INAMI had not confirmed these figures because of insufficient data. In committee, you said that the budgetary impact of the reform was based on the assumption that, in the long run, eight hundred people with disabilities would return to work. Are these estimates based on the possibility of a mandatory integration route? I'd like you to tell me and thank you in advance.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-10-54-plenair-ip085x.u31	Mrs Caprasse, we were aware last night of the agreement reached in the Group of 10, which was obviously good news. After the social agreement, a political agreement is needed. As Minister Peeters said earlier, we are going to do in the next few days. Our experts are analysing in detail the agreement of the social partners. At first glance, questions arise in budgetary terms. In any case, it is important for us to adopt a personalized approach, because the path of reintegration must be tailor-made, as provided for in the government agreement. It takes a truly individual and detailed accompaniment. This person must be able to participate fully in professional and societal life again.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-10-54-plenair-ip085x.u32	Thank you, Minister. Proposing a path of reintegration is a commendable step. Making it mandatory is less so. There is a non-social and non-ethical aspect to this measure. I very much hope that you will try to reach an agreement with the social partners, who do not seem to share your position.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-10-54-plenair-ip085x.u33	Mr President, Minister, this morning we were informed, and I hope you knew before us, of a fraud of a fairly large scale on the furniture discount. We know that in Belgium the system is quite simple for those who invest, since the discount is levied at source. Nevertheless, at the level of foreigners, it is different; they may ask, in order to avoid double taxation, to recover or not to have to pay the deposit. It is likely that some people would have claimed undue reimbursement of this discount using fakes. Mr Minister, we are talking about EUR 200 million, although there are rumours about much larger sums. Do we already know what this is about? What's the status of trying to get rid of that money and get it back? How long has this fraud been going on? There appears to be increasing repayments, which has led the services to question themselves. Is it not possible to put in place a system that could prevent such things? Has this ever happened in other countries? If so, which ones? Otherwise, how do they avoid this kind of fraud?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-10-54-plenair-ip085x.u34	Mr President, Minister, you were very successful in the Finance Committee when the anti-fraud plan was discussed there this week. That is a very sexy theme, with which you win twice, namely more resources for the state treasury and work towards fiscal justice. It was said that this would allow EUR 425 million per year to be raised. However, some of the reports that have reached us lately suggest that it could be much more. What happened? If the profits are distributed and dividends paid, there is a liberating withholding tax at the source. It must no longer be declared as a taxable basis. The problem is that when someone can prove that he has already been valued elsewhere, for example in another country with which a treaty has been concluded, he can recover it from the Belgian State. It now appears that a great deal is being recovered without the Belgian State systematically verifying whether effective payments have been made and at what rate. You said in committee that there is indeed a problem and that it is escalating. That raises the following questions. Is there never an annual verification? Not even on a random basis? Will the increased transparency in the exchange of financial data with other countries help to put an end to this problem? Are Belgium and Denmark the only victims, or is this a widespread phenomenon in the European Union? How will you organise stricter controls in the future in order to collect all the funds to which the Belgian State Treasury is entitled?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-10-54-plenair-ip085x.u35	Mr Mathot and Mr Deseyn, fellow Members of the Finance Committee know that, two days ago, when I explained my plan to combat tax fraud, I indicated that there were remarkable movements concerning the foreign recovery of withholding tax. Let me put it this way. The possibility of reimbursement is provided for in the tax treaties, in particular in order to avoid double taxation. Very recently, however, we have seen a large increase in these refunds. Everything indicates that this is an important fraud. In Denmark, moreover, there is a similar phenomenon. In summary, the assembly used can be described as fraudulent in so far as shares are resold several times on the same day, and each person who owns these shares can request, on that day, each time, the repayment of the movable deposit via intermediary undertakings. The Movable Discount is collected only once while the refund is claimed, according to the above process, several times. I immediately asked my administration to do everything in its power to strengthen this ongoing investigation. According to the first data, it is indeed about several hundred million for the total of these files. A distinction must now be made between the cases in which fraud is effectively committed and those in which it does not, and then there is a need to act accordingly. Given the ongoing investigation, I cannot provide further details. I will inform Parliament of developments as soon as we have an exhaustive view of the extent of fraud and the procedures used. We will examine the initiatives that will need to be taken to strengthen the system and the legislation. Of course, I will do what is necessary to do that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-10-54-plenair-ip085x.u36	Minister, thank you. I can understand that you are silent if an investigation is under way. However, checking if this is done elsewhere may be interesting. The amounts are far from insignificant. That's disturbing! We hope to obtain information soon enough on this fraud and, therefore, to discuss it in the Finance Committee with a view to possibly making proposals to put an end to this kind of practice.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-10-54-plenair-ip085x.u37	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. You will see that every favour needs a certain degree of control, otherwise things will get out of hand. Often benefits are granted on the basis of a double taxation convention. I believe, Mr President, that perhaps we are dealing with a system error, including in the Chamber, because all these treaties are dealt with in the Committee on External Relations. It would be a good thing to be able to look in detail in the Finance Committee as well about what these treaties are about. That is the work that needs to be done here in this House, but I would again like to make a plea for the work of a genuine F Committee. You will examine that fact, which can report exactly all these constructions and assemblys to Parliament, so that appropriate legislative work can follow. I wish you every success in monitoring and increasing control capacity, because this will enable us to recover a lot together.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-10-54-plenair-ip085x.u38	Mr Minister, it can be said that according to the latest actions of the multinational BNP Paribas, the Belgian population has been blurred and feathered three times. The first time was in 2008-2009, when Fortis was rescued by the Belgian state. The taxpayer always pays for this rescue. At the same time, the Belgian government of the time had sold Fortis to BNP Paribas. I quote Morgan Stanley who, at the time, said, "BNP Paribas had Fortis for nothing!" The French newspaper Le Monde said: "BNP Paribas can thank Belgian taxpayers." What do we see today? Second theft: Fortis announces the loss of 1,050 jobs, in addition to previous layoffs. Since 2001, 6,000 jobs have been lost. The bank's unions said it was unacceptable. Third flight: a dividend payment from the Belgian subsidiary to its French parent company of 2 billion euros "to restore profitability". Mr Minister, by making this huge gift to the French multinational, the Belgian bank is reducing its own funds and its own capital ratio. This is worrying because, according to De Tijd, BNP Paribas was already, of the four Belgian banks, the one with the lowest equity funds. From 12%, it increased to 10.33%, whereas the National Bank had recommended not to decrease but to increase this ratio to ensure the soundness of Belgian banks. Therefore, Minister, can you assure us that Fortis does not have a real credit problem today and that we are not moving towards a new disaster, where Fortis would again knock on the door of the government and that, because of the argument too big to fail, this one will still come to its rescue? Given that the Belgian state is BNP Paribas' number one shareholder, what does the government intend to do directly in relations with the French government or perhaps in relation to your finance counterpart? What do you intend to do in your capacity as BNP Paribas' first shareholder at the board level to change the French multinational on redundancies and the payment of these dividends?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-10-54-plenair-ip085x.u39	Mr President, Minister, BNP Paribas Fortis has quite a bit of press coverage in the last week. First, the new 2020 vision was proposed. Basically, 1 050 jobs will disappear. In other words, an important effort is being made by the staff. Yesterday there was a sudden announcement that an additional special dividend of EUR 2 billion will be paid to the parent company BNP Paribas. The fact that jobs are disappearing will sound very unpleasant to you, of course, because this government has been announcing for a year now that there will be jobs with the tax shift and the reduction of charges. We are talking about a sound financial institution that announces that it will abolish more than a thousand jobs. To what extent is our government, as a shareholder of the French parent company, aware of this? We have an important share of 10%. We're one of the big shareholders. My questions are as follows, Minister. Has there been a request from the French parent company for that additional dividend? If so, what was the mandate of the representatives of this government? What is the government's position on this question? Does the payment of the additional dividend to the French parent company also pass on to the shareholders? In other words, does this also seep through to the Belgian State which still holds a 10% share in BNP Paribas? Is there a financial transfer operation?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-10-54-plenair-ip085x.u40	Mr President, Minister, it is not your week. There is the criticism of the Court of Auditors about the budget and the fiscal homework of the Minister of Finance that would not be ready. There is the fraud plan that you must withdraw because you do not get your majority in line with it. There is the news today that, following criticism from the Council of State, you must withdraw your tax regularisation because your homework is not done there either. For Members of Parliament who want this Parliament to work in a serious way, it is also important to mention that you want to start discussing the tax shift in this House tomorrow, while no text has yet been tabled. That's Johan Van Overtveldt's chunk track. That's the Minister of Finance's crummy trail. There is another dossier, Mr Van Overtveldt, in which we expect an active, competent finance minister, the banking file. That is a dossier on which my fellow Members Mr Almaci and Mr Gilkinet very often take the floor. There was very annoying news this week for the thousand employees in our country for whom there is no future anymore; they are being phased out, cool, sec, business. In the meantime, however, 2 billion Belgian money is heading towards Paris, towards the parent company, towards BNP Paribas. It was a second transfer to Paris in less than a week. The N-VA is in the government, the N-VA that has an allergy to transfers within this country, but transfers to Paris allow you as Minister of Finance, as Minister of N-VA, to happen. After all, there is something you can do. You have two government representatives at BNP Paribas. What was their mandate? What order did you give these people? When will the voice of this government be loud for a worthy and humane financial sector in the service of the real economy?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-10-54-plenair-ip085x.u41	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Belgian BNP Paribas Fortis, on its own initiative, will pay an exceptional dividend of just over EUR 2 billion to parent company BNP Paribas. The Belgian branch is overcapitalised, the capital is thus adapted to capital needs. This application was approved by the BNP Paribas Fortis Board of Directors on 8 July 2015. BNP Paribas Fortis made an official request to the Group on 15 July 2015 to raise dividends exceptionally at the European Central Bank and the Belgian National Bank. This application falls within the scope of Article 77 of the Banking Act and requires the prior authorization of the supervisor. With the entry into force of the SSM, the Central Bank is the competent authority in this field. However, the Belgian National Bank was involved in the preparation of this decision. Since the proposal is not legally contrary to the legislation and since the solvency ratio of BNP Paribas Fortis will still be well above the minimum requirements even after the payment of the exceptional dividend, the ECB and the National Bank of Belgium could only approve the proposal. However, the National Bank of Belgium has imposed additional capital requirements to keep the Belgian branch solid. I'll talk about the staff now. With regard to staff, it is clear that BNP Paribas Fortis has made a strategic effort to adapt to changes in society and market conditions. BNP Paribas Fortis has just announced its vision for 2020 with a strategic update for 2018. The plan includes investments in four key factors, while focusing on efficiency gains. The number of offices, 786, remains stable but net jobs after natural redundancies and recruitments will indeed disappear in the next three years about 1 050 jobs. BNP Paribas Fortis has clearly indicated that he wants to achieve these objectives in a respectful and social way, in dialogue with the employees and the social partners. I should also like to point out that this is obviously not an isolated fact. It applies not only to Belgian banks but also to international banks. The whole banking world is on the move. Institutions that want to continue to play their part in this are obliged to adapt to these movements. Worldwide, the banks do not escape this and therefore, of course, they do not escape it in Belgium. I regret, of course, the loss of these jobs, but it would be wrong. Of course I regret that. I have also expressly asked the directors representing the government in the French parent holding company to give me additional clarification on the recent decision on the 2 billion.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-10-54-plenair-ip085x.u42	Minister, I am quite absolved by your answer. You tell us that the decision was taken by BNP Paribas Fortis on its own initiative. Like she doesn't do what her mother's house tells her! You then tell us that the bank is making a strategic effort. We're throwing 1050 jobs, and it's a strategic effort! When I hear the Prime Minister say "jobs, jobs, jobs," then we cut 1050 jobs and you say "I'm sorry," it's pretty dismaying! I am surprised by your comments, because I would remind you that in terms of solvency, the National Bank is saying exactly the opposite. It says that Belgian banks must increase their own funds and not reduce them. Finally, when we decided to divest Fortis to BNP Paribas in 2008-2009, the idea was to adopt the Belgian bank to a strong group. Today, it is the Belgian bank that is obliged to help this strong group, which has become weak! Minister of Finance, it is time to think about developing a public bank that is not thirsty for profit like this French multinational, which risks bringing us back to a financial crisis as we experienced it in 2008!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-10-54-plenair-ip085x.u43	Minister, I note that the additional dividend was paid by BNP Paribas Fortis on its own initiative. I can't hide the strangeness of this. We are talking about a company that has too much money, and that actually comes down to it and wants to get rid of it, but at the same time it says to its organization that there is a need to cut back. In doing so, you have indicated what the underlying problem is, namely that for companies in the financial sector only one thing counts, profit maximization: making as much profit as possible in order to provide shareholders with as much content as possible, while Fortis should actually take care of his staff and clients. I therefore deeply regret the way things are going. Furthermore, you did not answer my question as to whether the additional dividend of 2 billion would be passed on to the shareholders of the French parent company. In other words, is something coming to the Belgian State? I assume that you will soon be informed of this by your representatives and that we will be further informed about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-10-54-plenair-ip085x.u44	Mr Minister, until today, we are calling on our citizens to make efforts in connection with the financial crisis, and you say today that 2 billion additional dividends are actually being paid and a thousand jobs are being lost. You will ask your government representatives for an explanation. How dare you, Minister of Finance? You have a firm finger in the porridge. Use it, let's hear it. The lion may claw. You can tell Paris that our people deserve a job and a decent perspective! You're letting this happen. In fact, you say that you like to be a colony of Paris, last week on energy and today on large banks. You want an explanation from the government representatives. Tell them to do their job. Tell the representatives of the MR and Open Vld that they need to be heard and that we do want to learn lessons from the banking crisis.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-10-54-plenair-ip085x.u45	Minister, you announced in the press, yesterday or today, that you want to rejuvenate the army. This objective is obviously commendable, and we share it, as long as it is not on the back of Defence and the status of the military. You propose that new recruits sign an eight-year fixed-term contract. This is an option that we had supported under the former legislature, but which you make mandatory. We are very worried! It is unacceptable to us that, after a disinvestment of nearly two billion dollars in defence by this government, a disinvestment in personnel will follow. How will we motivate new recruits or inspire vocations? Minister, what is your goal in terms of commitment by 2019? If possible, don't hide yourself again behind your strategic plan that was announced at Easter, for the big holidays, at Christmas; I guess next time it will be for the trinity! Do the 700 recruits and commitments planned for 2016 seem sufficient, knowing that the army's functions are on the rise, as we have seen in recent weeks? You mentioned in the press the creation of bridges for these soldiers at the end of their eight years of engagement. Can you say more?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-10-54-plenair-ip085x.u46	Mr President, dear colleague, I am a little surprised by your question. You voted in favour of the law of 30 August 2013, as I see on the report, concerning the new statute for a limited period of time (BDL). And that is what we are talking about! We will recruit 700 people in the next few years and I think that will not be enough. That is why the government will implement its strategic plan to reorient the Belgian army. How can youth be encouraged to engage in Defence? We are working on opportunities for bridges, including to the public service - security tasks in other services - or to the private sector, we will see. Today, it is already planned that, if a person wishes to reorient himself, he will be granted 180 hours of leave to attend courses, 1 850 euros to finance them or a month of reorientation. We are therefore taking all the necessary steps to make Defence as attractive to young people as it has been in the past, as it offers them enormous challenges.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-10-54-plenair-ip085x.u47	Minister, I repeat that, for us, the fixed-term contract was an option, as you now make it mandatory. In any case, thank you for the answers you have given me. However, I would like to recall the costly outsourcing of sensitive defence missions, the military budget in the process of extinction and the use of a limited status of 100 per cent. The PS fears that the N-VA will prepare for the privatization of the army. Mr Minister, it is not an SME that you manage, but a vital mission of our state! I would not like it to be carried out tomorrow on the backs of the military, who are obviously not Kleenex who are taken and thrown away after use.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-10-54-plenair-ip085x.u48	Mr President, Minister, this morning I heard the following on the radio, and I quote: 'As a trade union, we defend not only the staff but also the traveller.' This is a quote from the ACOD, linked to the news that the trains will not be driving for five days in January, I repeat, five days in January. How strange are these unions and who do they represent, knowing that the latest strike was only followed for 28%? It is about a public undertaking which has a 36-hour week for its staff, more than 50 holiday days and a pension at 55 years. That public sector must be reformed. There are some reasonable adjustments for discussion at the moment. These adjustments are needed to increase productivity by 4% annually. In this context, I refer to your strategic note and the coalition agreement. We support you and we also fully support Mr Cornu, CEO of SNCB. The citizen doesn't understand the strike. The taxpayer, who pays EUR 270 each year for the railway company, does not understand that strike. I am convinced that much of the staff does not understand that strike either. Madam Secretary, I have the following questions. Firstly, can you confirm that the proposal for a social agreement which is currently being discussed fits within your reform plan? In my second question I would like to talk about the world alienation of the unions. You have said that the 1926 law must be amended. Do you agree that this adjustment should include the abolition of the right of veto of the trade unions? My third question concerns the provision of guaranteed services. My colleague, Mrs Ceysens, has already spoken about a deadline on e-commerce. At the end of this year there will be the ultimate date for a proposal or agreement to be made, but not an inch of progress has been made. Will you draw the sheet towards you and ensure that the guaranteed service, which is included in the coalition agreement, comes to pass?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-10-54-plenair-ip085x.u49	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, Mr Lahaye-Battheu has already outlined the situation. This morning, everyone was shocked by the main point in radio news, in particular that the railway unions are submitting an announcement for five strike days in January. In full winter and during the examination period, completely paralyse rail traffic for five days: that is a disaster for our economy, for the climate, for mobility, in short, for the whole country. The question arises as to whether the trade unions have lost their senses. What world do they live in? There's no support for those strikes anymore. Such provocation from the trade unions calls for an intervention. What's it about? Why do they strike now? Not because half the staff are fired or the wages are cut in half. No, the point is that people with a very good social status should have to work longer on average one hour a week. However, this is urgently needed if our railway companies are to achieve the same productivity as the railway companies in our neighbouring countries.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-10-54-plenair-ip085x.u50	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-10-54-plenair-ip085x.u51	There was a draft social agreement on the table this week, Mrs Temmerman, to achieve those objectives. That agreement was immediately fired by the trade unions. For the N-VA this agreement was not far enough, because sacred houses such as the recruitment of statutory staff, the pension at 55 years after a career of barely 30 years, and the 36-hour week, were not even affected. Do you still understand, Madam Secretary? Are you gonna be able to explain? I certainly don't anymore. Are those antisocial measures, Mrs. Temmerman? No! But five days of strike, which means hundreds of thousands of people will have to stay in traffic longer, that's antisocial! Now I don't hear anyone on the banks of the PS and the sp.a anymore; now it's suspiciously quiet there. Do you dare to defend these strike promises?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-10-54-plenair-ip085x.u52	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-10-54-plenair-ip085x.u53	Do you still dare to say that a guaranteed service cannot be provided?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-10-54-plenair-ip085x.u54	What's your question?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-10-54-plenair-ip085x.u55	I come to my question. Looks like the railroad unions are still alive in 1926. The Law of 1926 regulates the railway regulations. Our society has changed enormously over the past 90 years. I believe that we should dare to question that law. I come to my questions, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-10-54-plenair-ip085x.u56	Mrs. De Coninck, I have to interrupt you. So you're asking for the Minister's response. Your speaking time is up, and there is nothing I can do about it. Excuse me, but I have to be strict.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-10-54-plenair-ip085x.u57	Mr President, Minister, when the government took office, it chose to make railway companies efficient, economically profitable companies that can ensure that services to passengers are on track and that they become dynamic companies, which can also compete in a competitive environment, with proud staff, who together pursue these objectives. Ladies and gentlemen, I am not the man for the harsh statements or the controversy. In my opinion, the unions have missed an opportunity over the last few days. They have missed an historic opportunity to launch the route to those modern railway companies through an agreement, which was preliminary and very reasonable. It was not an agreement that would blow up the whole statute, nor was it an agreement that would end up in the garbage. On the other hand, it was an agreement that took steps towards efficiency gains and productivity gains. We all know that CD&V is one of the main defenders of social dialogue in the current government. As defenders of the social dialogue, we deeply regret the steps that have been taken. I even called it stupid the night before last not to. This means that the polarisation, with which we will not move forward, is likely to increase again. Ultimately, a solution will have to be found at the table, so that passengers will not be in the cold in January 2016. Madam Minister, many students are threatened by the rail strikes in January 2016. Students who have to pass their exams threaten to even go in the direction of a second one because of these strikes. We must, however, give the social dialogue a second seat, so that solutions can be found and that the weapon of strike, which should really be an ultimate weapon when social achievements are threatened, is reduced to normal proportions. Madam Secretary, how will you organise the second sitting?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-10-54-plenair-ip085x.u58	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Madam Minister, five days of strike have just been announced for the month of January. This will be extremely detrimental to commuters, workers and students. There is likely to have been a break in the social dialogue at SNCB. The parties involved are unable to agree on measures which would, in particular, improve productivity. The unions denounce the fact that they are not really concerted, just informed, and that counter-proposals have been formulated on their part but swept away by the management, without any discussion of them. These strikes, if confirmed, will be very damaging. Also, Madam Minister, you announced in your strategic note from the beginning that you wanted to increase productivity by 4% per year at the SNCB level. If we can support this objective, the means to implement it seem to be very problematic at this stage. I hear some of my colleagues say that, in fact, nothing is taken away from them and that they have super protective statutes. I then simply ask them the following questions. Is a twelve-hour job in a row for a referral officer something that, in your opinion, contributes to the quality of the work? Do the impossibility of taking recovery of hours and the reduction in the rest time of drivers contribute to the quality of the work? These measures concern the safety of all commuters and raise some questions. Minister, as the appropriate minister, we ask you to put the various actors around the table and to ensure that the social dialogue is re-established on the measures that have been proposed. We also ask you to analyse the measures which have been the subject of counter-proposals by the trade unions. This is your role as the appropriate minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-10-54-plenair-ip085x.u59	Ladies and gentlemen, SNCB, Infrabel and HR Rail took note yesterday of the five-day strike announcement in January. This is unseen! The social agreement has been documented and negotiated within HR Rail since March 2015, representing nine months of negotiations. Yesterday, the managements of the three companies found a clear and total disagreement between the trade unions on all the proposals of the social agreement. These matters are covered by the internal social dialogue of enterprises. However, according to the information available to me, the Directorates intend to continue along the current path, which is in line with the objectives set for them. These are, of course, ambitious, but unquestionably realistic objectives. I deeply regret such actions. Thousands of commuters and students will be held hostage in their final month. The agreement proposed to the railway trade unions was always, according to my information, balanced and had no other objective than to sustain the three companies facing great challenges. In this context, I will also implement the government agreement on guaranteed service. I gave every opportunity to social consultation, but there's no agreement. It is also the responsibility of stakeholders to make concrete proposals for a guaranteed service. Ladies and gentlemen, if the right to strike is respectable, the right to go to work, the right of students to take their exams are equally respected.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-10-54-plenair-ip085x.u60	Madam Secretary, you will have my support, and the support of the entire Group of Open Vld, to move forward with the executives. What you said about the guaranteed service is important. There will be. Ladies and gentlemen, five days on strike for turning in one holiday day. Who still understands that? I would also like to pay my respects to Mr Van den Bergh for the courage he had to judge the unions today. In particular, we would like to call on the staff of the railway company to take part in the reasonable adjustments that are on the table today. In front of us, the people working day by day for the railway company, stand on one, together with the passengers, while the unions want to put themselves on one.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-10-54-plenair-ip085x.u61	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answers. I will make my reply very brief. I wish you just as much success with the reforms needed to make our railway companies healthy and ready for the future. I am glad that there is no longer any discussion about the guaranteed service. Our bill has been filed. We would be happy to discuss it in this House. As far as staff are concerned, the railway regulations are based on a 1926 law. We want to bring the debate to the fore. That law is gonna be 90 years old. We do not want a law of 1926, but a law of 2016!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-10-54-plenair-ip085x.u62	Madam Secretary, thank you for your clear statement. It was not really an answer to the questions, I think, but it was a very clear position. I think it is very important to get everyone back to the negotiating table. We can make the most punitive statements here, but ultimately the solution will have to be found at the negotiating table, in the interests of all travellers and of all students who want to be able to count on their train in January. I hope that the second seat will be there soon and that it will soon lead to results.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-10-54-plenair-ip085x.u63	Minister, as the appropriate minister, I note that there is no real will on your part to involve you in the matter at the level of the agreement and to give the last chance a last chance. I also note that it is easy to sweep back the counter-proposals that have been made and to cast the reproach brutally and without nuance on the unions. Does not the employer's proposals also help to bring about this strike? Madam Minister, will you support the proposals that a partner of your majority made this afternoon, namely simply sweeping social consultation at SNCB for the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-10-54-plenair-ip085x.u64	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, a few days ago appeared the 2015 report on the wage gap between women and men. According to this report, the wage gap in Belgium is still and unfortunately 9%. This report also contains other interesting elements. Thus, on the basis of gross wages, this gap increases to 22 per cent and is further increased if all extra-legal benefits are added. In terms of part-time work, discrimination is even more important in all sectors, whether in industry or in services. On the other hand, the same phenomenon of discrimination can be seen in terms of hiring and career prospects. It must therefore be noted that at work it is better to be a man than a woman, although it can be said that over the years the situation has improved, since in ten years the wage gap has increased to 12% to 9%. As a woman and as a representative of my group, the MR, we want this situation to improve further because it is far from satisfactory. We are good students, but we can do better! Madam Secretary of State, my question was addressed to Mr Peeters in advance, but since you are competent in matters of equal opportunities, you can answer my question, I have no doubt. Madam Secretary of State, have you foreseen in your policy paper that this issue should be dealt with within the framework of equality between men and women? Do you have figures on good practices put in place by companies? Have you taken steps to improve collaboration with the federated entities so that, when women have to opt for part-time, this discrimination is taken into account at the level of crèches, out-of-school care and schools?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-10-54-plenair-ip085x.u65	Dear colleague, the wage gap really exists and that is unacceptable. The Act of 22 April 2012, as amended in 2013 and on which I can rely, aims to combat this wage gap. It must be recognized that the issue of discrimination against women in the workplace also arises. I will continue to plead for the same salary for the same job. In order to achieve this objective, as I announced in my general guidance note, I will consult with various colleagues, in particular Mr Peeters, who is responsible for employment matters, but also with other ministers and secretaries of state, as well as with the Regions. In 2016, I will launch a working group, coordinated by the Institute for Gender Equality, to prepare a national action plan on gender equality in labour relations. In this context, I will commit myself to encouraging my colleagues to fill the gaps that lead to discrimination. We have figures, but we still need further results and collaboration, especially between the different governments in this country.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-10-54-plenair-ip085x.u66	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your answer. I feel that you are motivated by the question. Under the leadership of one of my colleagues, Caroline Cassart, MPs MR and I have tabled a resolution to ensure a balance between women's and men's wages. We hope that this will inspire the government and allow us to change attitudes, both at the corporate level and in society.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-10-54-plenair-ip085x.u67	End of oral questions. End of oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-10-54-plenair-ip085x.u68	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 9 December 2015, I propose that you enter on the agenda of this afternoon's plenary session: - the draft programme law (II), Nos 1480/1 to 3; - the draft law laying down various provisions relating to agriculture and the environment, Nos 1471/1 to 3; - the draft law transposing Directive 2013/34/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 June 2013 on the annual financial statements, consolidated financial statements and related reports of certain types of undertakings, amending Directive 2006/43/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council and repealing Council Directives 78/660/EEC and 83/349/EEC, Nos 1444/1 to 10; - the draft law ratifying the Royal Decree of 10 February 2015 on the contribution to the operating, staff and founding costs of the Gaming Commission due by the holders of the licences class A, A+, B+, C, E, F1, F1+, F2, G1 and G2 for the calendar year 2015, Nos 1437/1 to 3; - the legislative proposal (Mrs Sonja Becq, Mr Raf Terwingen, Mr Philippe Goffin and Mr Egbert Lachaert and Mrs Carina Van Cauter and Mrs Kristien Van Vaerenbergh) amending the legislation relating to the electronic performance of documents outside the opening hours of the Registry, Nos 1477/1 to 4; - the legislative proposal (Mr Raf Terwingen, Ms Sonja Becq, Mr Philippe Goffin and Mrs Carina Van Cauter et Kristien Van Vaerenbergh) amending the law of 19 October 2015 amending civil procedural law and laying down various provisions on justice relating to the status of urgent cases entered in the role of the family court, Nos 1476/1 to 3; - the draft law laying down various financial provisions setting up an administrative service with accounting autonomy, 'Social activities', and laying down a provision on equality between women and men, Nos 1459/1 to 7; - the draft law establishing the military quota for 2016, Nos 1461/1 to 3. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 9 December 2015, I propose that you include in the agenda of this afternoon's plenary session: - draft programme law (II), Nos. 1480/1 to 3; - the draft law on various provisions in the field of agriculture and the environment, Nos. 1471/1 to 3; - the draft law transposing Directive 2013/34/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 June 2013 on the annual financial statements, consolidated financial statements and related reports of certain types of undertakings, amending Directive 2006/43/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council and repealing Council Directives 78/660/EEC and 83/349/EEC, Nos 1444/1 to 10; - the draft law confirming the Royal Decree of 10 February 2015 on the contribution to the operating, personnel and installation costs of the Game of Chance Commission due from the licensees of Class A, A+, B, B+, C, E, F1, F1+, F2, G1 and G2 for the calendar year 2015, Nos. 1437/1 to 3; - the bill (Ms. Sonja Becq, MM. Raf Terwingen, Philippe Goffin and Egbert Lachaert and Ms Carina Van Cauter and Ms Kristien Van Vaerenbergh) amending the legislation as regards the electronic performance of acts outside the opening hours of the Registry, Nos. 1477/1 to 4; - the bill (Mr. Raf Terwingen, Ms. Sonja Becq, Mr. Philippe Goffin and Ms. Carina Van Cauter and Ms. Kristien Van Vaerenbergh) amending, with regard to the status of urgent cases in the role of the family court, the Act of 19 October 2015 amending the law of civil procedure and laying down various provisions in the field of justice, Nos. 1476/1 to 3; - the draft law on various financial provisions, establishing an administrative office with autonomous accounts "Social activities" and laying down a provision on equality between women and men, Nos. 1459/1 to 7; - the draft law establishing the army contingent for 2016, n°s 1461/1 tot 3. Are you sure you don't mind? Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-10-54-plenair-ip085x.u69	Without report Not related
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-10-54-plenair-ip085x.u70	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-10-54-plenair-ip085x.u71	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this draft is limited to abolishing the Fund for the management of periodic penalty payments. This fund was created in 1990 and allows the Council of State to collect periodic penalty payments if its judgments are not followed. The proceeds of that fund were intended to modernise the organisation of administrative justice. In practice, this fund did not work, which is why it is proposed to abolish it. A case is important to report. Despite the fact that this fund does not work and is intended to be abolished, citizens retain the right to claim a periodic penalty payment if a particular judgment they have obtained would not be enforced. The N-VA fully supports this design.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-10-54-plenair-ip085x.u72	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-10-54-plenair-ip085x.u73	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1480/3) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1480/3) The draft law has 6 articles. The bill has six articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-10-54-plenair-ip085x.u74	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-10-54-plenair-ip085x.u75	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur, Daniel Senesael, referred to the written report. Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-10-54-plenair-ip085x.u76	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1471/3) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1471/3) The draft law has 34 articles. The bill has 34 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-10-54-plenair-ip085x.u77	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-10-54-plenair-ip085x.u78	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-10-54-plenair-ip085x.u79	Mr President, I have agreed with Mr Piedboeuf, who is the co-rapporteur, to refer to the written report. I will speak on behalf of my group later.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-10-54-plenair-ip085x.u80	Mr President, Minister, we can look forward to seeing this text on the agenda of today's sitting. I would like explicitly to thank the former Secretary of State for the Fight against Social and Tax Fraud, Mr Crombez, for the preparatory work he has done. The main objective of this draft law is to enable the competent Belgian authority to obtain from Belgian financial institutions the transmission of information which the same authority must provide to the foreign courts concerned. The exchange of financial information at international level should ensure greater transparency. It is an important text because the automatic exchange of financial data at global level is considered to be a particularly effective instrument in the fight against international tax fraud, tax evasion and money laundering, but also in the fight against the financing of terrorism, which is so important today. That is why we support Mr Dirk Van der Maelen's amendment amending Article 17 so that the data can be used as evidence in order to be able to institute criminal proceedings also for terrorism or its financing, organised crime, trafficking in arms and human beings. However, Mr Minister, I have two regrets and we have had an opportunity to debate them in committee. The first concerns the penalties provided for in the draft law, which are far too light compared to those provided for in other Member States of the European Union. They will not be sufficiently dissuasive in terms of, for example, what is being done in Austria, where fines imposed on financial institutions can amount to up to EUR 200 000, or in Germany up to EUR 50 000 per infringement. We will therefore also support all the amendments tabled in order to increase the penalties provided for. It is also important that financial institutions that do not comply with the law be punished, and not just morally with regard to their reputation, as you said in committee. They must be punished in a sufficiently strict manner; even the withdrawal of approvals could be possible. Here too, we will support Mr Van der Maelen's amendment. The second regret concerns the retention of data. In accordance with Article 15, § 3 of the draft law, the FPS Finances will keep the computerized data banks transmitted to the competent authority of another jurisdiction for only seven years. As you said in committee, you limit your reflection to the fiscal scope alone. For us, these data, which, I repeat, could provide valuable assistance in the fight against terrorism and organised crime, should be retained for longer. That is why we are tabling an amendment to that effect. I hope that it will receive your support, given the present context.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-10-54-plenair-ip085x.u81	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, international tax fraud is, more than ever before, a phenomenon to be caught up in and fought against. At a time when international trade is reaching record levels, where States are interconnected to an unrivalled point and the amount of financial transactions has become enormous, the fight against this scourge cannot, of course, be confined to national borders. It is therefore high time to introduce automatic exchanges of information between countries for tax purposes worthy of this name, with the aim of transparency expected by all our fellow citizens. Over the past two years, our country has made remarkable commitments to its European but also global partners in the fight against international tax fraud. For example, a bilateral agreement was concluded with the United States in April 2014 for the automatic exchange of financial information. A similar agreement was signed by Belgium in October 2014 under a joint OECD-Council of Europe convention. Finally, the 2011 European Directive on the exchange of financial information was amended in December 2014. The bill that is being voted on today aims at finally endorsing these three commitments in the fight against international tax fraud by transposing them into national law. More specifically, the purpose of this text is simple: to establish an automatic exchange of financial data between Belgium and foreign jurisdictions and vice versa. In this regard, it represents a real step forward for more tax justice, both at the national and international levels. By passing this bill, we will therefore be bringing a stone to the international justice building that is to be generalized. As we can see, this bill once again marks the clear and firm will of this government to combat tax evasion and evasion. With this project, our country will finally be able to better tax foreign account holders on their income, and our administration will be able to control international account returns even more effectively. Moreover, this tax legislation will make it easier for the tax administration to ensure the correct application of the Cayman tax, in particular. This legislation offers Belgian tax officers extremely effective tools to monitor tax returns and to establish a fair and correct tax. In short, this bill makes it possible to tighten the bill around tax fraudsters. Before concluding, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to reassure each other about the compatibility of this project with the privacy issue. All guarantees were taken and the Privacy Commission gave a positive opinion on July 1, 2015. The bill is therefore clear. Prior to the exchange of financial information, account holders will be informed of the data transmitted, of the objectives but also of the final recipients. Therefore, this is not a piecemeal transfer of all tax information. In other words, the project provides a strong framework for safeguarding the right to privacy. In conclusion, I would like to thank all the parties, the majority and the opposition, who participated in constructive exchanges in committee. This allowed the text to be voted unanimously. I hope that agreement on this project will also be reached in the final vote so that we can finally make decisive progress on this subject. I think we all agree that the automatic exchange of financial information at European and global level is, now more than ever, an indispensable instrument in the fight against fraud and tax evasion. The aim is therefore to generalize this struggle. With this text, we are contributing to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-10-54-plenair-ip085x.u82	Ladies and gentlemen, congratulate Mr Calomne on his Mayden speech!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-10-54-plenair-ip085x.u83	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I can say on this draft law that it is, as it were, a landslide in the fiscal country. Maybe I should be wary of the word landslide while the climate conference is going on, but it is a good landslide. To the extent that she has dragged Mr Van der Maelen into her enthusiasm; he was very pleased with the strength of this government, which is working on these international obligations and standards. Never before have we had the pleasure of dealing with such an initiative that creates so much international fiscal transparency: transparency about identity; transparency about accounts, the state of those accounts and the state; transparency about all assets and, last but not least, transparency about the flows of money that come or leave those accounts. We have already discussed this afternoon how to deal with tax fraud. This requires knowledge and a view of transactions taking place abroad. This was particularly the case this afternoon, when we were talking about withholding tax and exemption. This is about large international money flows. If it is the ambition to achieve a fair share of taxes, so that everyone contributes a fair and fair share, then we must be able to carry out those controls on the basis of complete and complete information. That's why it's a very important tool. That is why I think I can use the word "land shift'. The draft law is welcomed, across party boundaries, majority and opposition support this, because we all strongly believe in the power of information. There's a lot in this bill, but we can get more out of it. That is why I certainly wanted to take the floor today, to make the point and to give some of the words a scope, to give an interpretation and to propose to the Minister, who can or cannot confirm it. In the meantime, Minister, I think you already know what I am talking about. I would like to make a few points. Let me begin with the aspect of the fight against terrorist financing. There was an opinion from the Privacy Commission that I liked to read. I understand that the draft law is primarily limited to tax matters. There is, of course, always a certain interference, because when one asks for information about the people, there is a certain violation of privacy. If it is legitimate, proportionate, well-motivated and based on a legal basis, then there is nothing wrong with it. It would, of course, be problematic if this legislation were to run out of court because of the violation of individual rights and guarantees. I believe that whatever we decide this afternoon will also enable this information to be used in the fight against, for example, money laundering, corruption and the financing of terrorism. It would be good to confirm that this information will also be used for these purposes. I would also like to ask the Minister if he is prepared to evaluate the current policy instruments on the fight against phenomena such as money laundering, corruption and the financing of terrorism. Perhaps this afternoon's instrument is also ideally suited to combat these phenomena. So let us use the car not only to drive to the already defined destinations, but also to go to very interesting destinations that are politically extremely topical. The next point concerns the aid that we can provide to developing countries. In the report by Mr Piedboeuf and myself, you will read that several Members of Parliament have asked the Minister whether he is prepared to support the developing countries. The Minister's classic answer was that he attaches great importance to legal certainty. It is, of course, true that this information should be properly used and that this should not lead to illegal valuations or anything like that. However, it is important that we create capacity, support for third countries, especially the least developed countries, the developing countries, to have access to their assets abroad. This allows them to calculate a correct taxable base. A final remark concerns the finality of the bill and the interpretation of the Minister of Article 2 of the bill. During the discussion in committee, I have already made a number of comments on this subject. I won't do that again. The statement literally states that the data collected by our Belgian financial institutions and forwarded to the FPS Finance Office cannot be used by our administration for the establishment or collection of any Belgian tax. During the discussion of the draft, I referred to some of the opinions of the Council of State, which see discrimination in this provision, discrimination between Belgians and other Europeans with foreign accounts, on the one hand, and Belgians with Belgian accounts and foreigners working here, on the other. This discrimination is a violation of the free movement of services and capital, as stated several times by the Council of State. I also referred during the discussion to the Minister's commitment to exchanging excess profit rulings. I would like to quote this because I would like to outline the analogy. The Minister says that our country has a pioneering role to play. Belgium wants to be proactive, to be high in the ranking of transparent countries. These are all principles which we attach high priority to. You go even further and advocate an active role for the European Commission. You ask the Commission not only to exchange rulings but also to use them to conduct a policy. Minister, I call on you not to be a relay or clerk of that financial information, but to use that transparency for the Belgian tax authorities. I said in the interview that you should not confine yourself to filling and forwarding the envelope, but that you should also keep a copy at hand or dare to tear the envelope open and check what we know and what we need to conduct a good fiscal and financial policy. We discussed the Fraud Plan in committee this week. You referred to the initiatives to be taken on non-residents' taxes. You said there were problems with the control and the inning. You will be provided here this afternoon with the tool to tackle the control and collection options for GNI. You don't have to change anything. You don't have to rewrite the pleading. You should leave a trail in the Integrated Report and say that this is interesting, that we can use it in due course, because I really think that Article 2 has those possibilities in it. I would just like to refer to the recent issue of 18 November 2015 of the trade journal Fiscologist, which states that this draft law is indisputably introducing a difference in treatment between two categories of holders of Belgian accounts, in particular tax residents and non-residents. My conclusion is that your interpretation of Article 2 constitutes discrimination which cannot be reconciled with the free movement of services and capital. Since I still cannot rely on a trace in the committee's reporting, I would therefore ask you once again to revise or confirm that interpretation, so that it is stated that our tax authorities can use this information for the establishment and collection of the Belgian tax due. Mr President, Minister, we very much support this draft and hope that you will get even more out of it, because there is still more in it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-10-54-plenair-ip085x.u84	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, as a colleague has just said, the sp.a Group has adopted this draft law in committee. We shall also approve it in this plenary. As I said at the committee meeting, I spent ten years in the finance committee for what is on the table here. However, I have to confess humbly that my powers of persuasion are immensely smaller than the powers of persuasion of the FATCA. The United States is much higher in tax ethics than Belgium. They have succeeded in convincing the right-wing parties, I remember the long discussions with Minister Reynders and fellow Members of the Open Group, where my powers of persuasion were lacking. The big brother across the street said it had to be done with states that do the devil to each other through fiscal competition. The United States considered that information should be exchanged. The European countries, including Belgium with a right-wing government, had to follow suit. From the entry into force of this law, we will know the unique situation for Belgium that the Belgian tax authorities, thanks to cooperation with the tax authorities of more than 100 countries in total, will know how many Belgians have foreign capital. We will receive that information. This is an important step towards fiscal justice. That is why this is the first reason why we will vote in favour of this bill. Our principle is that all shoulders should bear the burden, but the strongest shoulders should bear the heavy burden. Until recently, those who have a lot of money and who can afford the luxury of taking tax advisers under the arm could hide their money abroad. That's gonna end now. This is the first reason why we are pleased that, thanks to the momentum of the United States, this bill will come into force again in Europe and Belgium, with a right-wing government. The second reason why we are going to approve the draft law is because it puts an end to a debate which I have had countless times with Minister Reynders and the fellow Members from Open Vld. After all, I advocated that Belgian banks should also give the tax authorities the information they have on Belgians. I'll spare you what I got thrown at my head because of the colleagues from the Open Vld and the MR. In high tone they said: "Jamais! According to them, that went against privacy. They quoted articles, mostly written by tax lawyers who made themselves rich in giving tax advice, proving that my proposal was contrary to the Convention on Human Rights and was contrary to European law. Today, fellow Members of the Open Vld, the MR and the N-VA, it is your turn. I have just humbly confessed that I cannot compare myself with the United States. You will now also have to humbly admit that you have been telling us something for years and that there are many other interests behind it than the sacred principle of privacy. That is the second reason why we will be pleased to approve the draft law. There's a third reason. Again, how many times did I have to hear on my proposals during replies because of the same three right-wing parties, the N-VA, the Open Vld and the MR, that I would organise the capital flight? If I dared to do something like that, all the money would flow away, reducing tax revenues instead of more. You have lost that argument, ladies and gentlemen, on the right. I have just said that we are already talking about a hundred countries. There are a total of 196 countries in the world. Rest assured, by 2020, all 196 countries in the world will be part of this tax cooperation network within which information will be exchanged. Colleagues on the right, you will therefore have to rely on your creativity. I do not underestimate them, but you will have to have other arguments, if we, on the left, come up with proposals which we say should also make a contribution to capital. It must be over to lay the burden on employees. There's got to be a real tax shift and not the cook-off that you're preparing right now. However, we do not know the texts yet, but they will be explained tomorrow and will have to be approved in committee on Monday and Tuesday. That is not the creativity I was talking about, ladies and gentlemen. That is simply to deny Parliament's role and place in the decision-making process. It's downstairs everything. We shall therefore vote in favour, but since there is a dike breach on the right and you are so easily releasing what you have always claimed to be, I would also point out that it can be done even better, ladies and gentlemen. We in the sp.a, together with the PS, have tabled three amendments. I hope you will agree to that. I will not explain them very widely here, because I did so in committee. A first amendment seeks to bring fines to the level of the other European countries. These now amount to between EUR 1 000 and EUR 5 000. We propose to multiply this by 10 and then reach the level of countries like Germany and Sweden. I do know that this finance minister is so kind to the banks. I was moved by the way in which he made a commitment to slowly squeezing the tobin tax to death in a subtle way, to defend the interests of the banks. That was also the case with the sanctions, which are very timid. Please allow us to reach the level of fiscally-civilized European countries such as Germany and Sweden. I know that there is great confidence in the banks in this majority. Well, after what happened, I don't have a lot of faith in it myself. That is why we have tabled a second amendment, which stipulates that we must be able to go far, until the authorisation of that bank is withdrawn, if a bank is complicit, so if it is itself involved in organising fraud, for example by not passing on information which is still possible about Belgian taxpayers. For the third amendment, it is my third attempt. I once submitted it to the Finance Committee. I also filed it once in the Justice Committee. I don't understand the current majority. It has twice voted away our amendment which, in simple terms, amounts to using the wealth of information that states will possess. We have information in Belgium about all Belgians with money abroad. The other countries have information about their citizens and, above all, their capital somewhere abroad. That's a wealth of information. Why should we not use this information to combat the financing of terrorism? I have tabled an amendment in the Committee on Finance and in the Committee on Justice to regulate this. Up to two times, the current majority voted away my amendment. Colleagues, I invite you. You will be presented my amendment a third time. In Flemish, the expression is: "Three times is a charm." I hope the third time will be a good time. The Christmas spirit is coming. Perhaps it is possible that the majority will also take into account the sighs of members of the opposition, especially when they try to adopt draft laws. That is the first point. Secondly, my heart was pounding this morning when I read an article. I'll talk about the article later. I pointed out in committee that the excess profit rulings would be untenable and that the European Commission would touch Belgium. However, my words were laughed away. Well, today I'm making another prediction for you. The situation that will arise after the entry into force of the present draft, where the Belgian tax administration does have information on capital held by Belgians abroad but no information on capital held by Belgian banks by those same Belgians, will also not pass the test of the Constitutional Court or the test of the European Court of Justice in Luxembourg. So, ladies and gentlemen, it is high time to bring Belgium to the large peloton of the fiscally civilized countries and thus also to remove domestic banking secrecy. In the article in question in MO*, the global magazine, I read: "Break down banking secrecy completely. Tell him CD&V said it. Colleagues, in this article, the Chairman of the Finance Commission, Eric Van Rompuy, announced that he was preparing a bill to abolish domestic banking secrecy. Colleague, you can guess. You will receive the full support of the entire sp.a. Group. I know you can count. In case you have not yet done so, if all colleagues from the opposition support this bill, and we add the 18 votes of the CD&V Group, we have 83 votes in 150. In short, colleagues from CD&V, please, do not wait too long. Submit that bill and we will deliver the votes that will finally put an end to Belgian banking secrecy. The third possibility to make me even happier is to say that when that law is in force, there is no need for fiscal regularisation. I just read on Belga that tax regularization has been postponed. I'm assuming it's because of jurisdictional problems, because of the Council of State's opinions and so on. Tell them we don't need tax regularization anymore. I would like to remind my fellow Members who are a little younger than me, and unfortunately for me, that there are a lot of things when we debated the introduction of the European Savings Directive. At that time, it was already stated in Belgian legislation that a Belgian is obliged to state on his tax return whether he has capital in another European country. In 2003, 36 000 people completed their work. The decision to introduce the European Savings Directive was taken in 2004 and the directive came into force in 2008 or 2009; I do not know exactly. Do you know, ladies and gentlemen, how many Belgians in 2007 indicated how much capital they had in another European country? Four... four... four... One hundred and thirty thousand, I even thought 136 000 Belgians gave in before the savings directive entered into force those foreign capitals, because they knew the directive was coming. Well, the same thing will happen with this bill. There is one difference and again we see how sweet this majority is for the capitalists, especially when it comes to taxes. Once again, we find that this government majority, which ladies and gentlemen have already had three opportunities to regularize, gives them another chance, a fourth chance. I can already hear this majority say that it has imposed severe conditions. Ladies and gentlemen, these conditions are lower than those laid down in the legislation in force. It would be more profitable for the State if the money that is still abroad, for which there had been three opportunities to regularize, were used in the normal legal way. That would bring much more for the government. But no, this majority is kind to those with a lot of capital who, despite three opportunities, still have their money abroad. Fourthly, I can be brief about the possibilities for improving this bill. I refer to what Mr Deseyn said earlier and in committee. I do not understand why we should not use the information available to the tax authorities to impose a fair tax on the non-residents. There is a phrase in the explanatory statement that one will not do that. Mr Deseyn is right, I fully support him in that. A statement by the Minister will soon be able to revoke this text in the explanatory memorandum, and so all the information about the non-residence holders at our disposal can also be used to levy a fair tax. Fifthly, and I am now going to suspect Mr Deseyn in the eyes of his fellow Members of the majority. I agree with his plea that this instrument, which I have also done this week, also offers opportunities for developing countries with regard to the Minister for Development Cooperation............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Developing countries are very often faced with capital flight, with the illegal lock-out of money, but also with the concealment of capital of persons belonging to their political or economic elite who have that money in bank accounts elsewhere, in the West. Making this information available to developing countries would be a major step forward and would enable us to provide them with a very important help for the country's self-development. By this I mean improving the social and economic conditions in the country on the basis of the income to which those countries are actually entitled, income that they are now losing because certain people from the elite do not want to contribute to their country and prefer to keep this money hidden from Western or Northern banks. I repeat: our group will approve this draft law, but I look forward with great interest to your voting on these three amendments and I look forward with great anticipation to other initiatives that would enable this majority to prove that it is moving forward on the momentum of this bill and, together with us, towards a more fiscally just Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-10-54-plenair-ip085x.u85	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as has been said by others before me, this is an interesting and useful step forward in the fight against tax fraud and for fairer taxation, unlike other acts that have not been taken by the federal majority. Minister, you are responsible for this. It must be said positively. But even more responsible than you, in the positive sense of the word, are those who have pushed Belgium to act, in particular the US government with its FATCA project, the OECD working on the issue and the European Union, since this text is the fusion of three international agreements, three international applications. It will contribute to a better exchange of banking information between Belgian and foreign tax administrations. This, of course, can be supported if this will, if this information is used properly and if the flow of information is correct and effective, lead to a better collection of the tax. That said, the test is not perfect. Mr Deseyn, who is not present, made a particularly well-documented and well-explained presentation in committee and in plenary, pointing out that his party had not achieved in the negotiations within the government all that he hoped for in this document. On some points, of course, I can join him. I regret that he did not support proposals to improve the text from various members of the opposition, including your servant, because we had a good substantive discussion on the text. Some questions still arise, including this form of inequality between foreign citizens and Belgian citizens. For foreign citizens, a much more comprehensive communication will be provided to foreign tax administrations than if they were Belgian vis-à-vis the Belgian tax administration. Amounts in their bank account will be disclosed. This may raise questions in terms of equality and free movement. The most obvious solution is to adapt the same rules for Belgian taxpayers, so as to give more capacity to tax services, with very clear guidelines on privacy issues, as is the case in other countries. It would be a matter of having access to the same information as regards Belgian taxpayers. Another question concerns the Belgian tax administration's ability to manage all the information that will be provided from abroad. On reading the text and following the discussions we have had, I must admit that I regret that your answers are no more precise in this respect. We do not see very well what role the central point of contact, which brings together all the banking information of Belgian taxpayers and depositors within the National Bank, will play in the processing of this information at a later stage. The text could have been improved. We have tabled a number of amendments, including an amendment to increase the sanctions regime for banks that would not play the game, which would not properly fulfil their obligations to disclose assets in their institutions of foreign citizens. The level of fines is much lower than in other countries, such as Germany and Austria, which have been cited in the communication. It does not seem to us, Mrs Demir, to be such as to deter banks from playing the game properly. We wanted to increase it by simply aligning it with foreign regimes. Mr Deseyn made the same point as we did, but unfortunately he did not vote in favour of our amendment. Another proposal we have made is to organise country-by-country reporting, including for countries with which we have not yet signed an information exchange agreement. I am thinking in particular of countries whose tax administration, the tax system, is not yet sufficiently organised, particularly in developing countries. They could have a better view of the assets held by their fellow citizens in foreign countries, to better guide their anti-fraud efforts and possibly obtain additional resources for the development of their own public services. We have regretted that this amendment is not supported and that you have not provided for some form of asymmetry in particular situations to sign agreements with countries for which it would be useful to know the assets of their citizens in Belgium, without they being able to return the same to us at present. Similarly, the amendment tabled by Mr Van der Maelen aimed at rehabilitating the text in its first version, also as a tool to combat terrorism, organised crime, trafficking in arms and human beings. This reference was included in the text of the first reading and was withdrawn as a result of the Privacy Commission's opinion, although the Council of State had made no comments on the matter. We have proposed, in support of Mr Van der Maelen's amendment, that the text be rehabilitated in its original form. Of course, we are concerned about the protection of privacy, but it is not absolute and, in relation to such serious facts, it would be normal for a flow of information to justice to be organised. We do not understand, in these circumstances, that the majority did not follow this amendment and did not agree to improve the text. I have felt a certain chill, of which one can say, by being optimistic and positive, that it is the consequence of the novelty of the device. We will resubmit these amendments in the hope that this time, in plenary session, they can be retained, that the majority have had time to reflect, or that some members, such as the CD&V, will accept these amendments. On the other hand, I think that it will be necessary to evaluate and adjust this system in order to check how it works, whether foreign tax administrations are correct with regard to Belgium and whether the Belgian tax administration has the capacity to process all the information received correctly. One can imagine that important flows of information can lead to a certain congestion, if computer and human devices are not put in place so that this improvement in flows leads to a better collection of tax. Today, a first step will be taken, with our support, even if our amendments are not supported. I think we have not finished talking about this international exchange of banking information. It is a tool that needs to be optimized, possibly based on tests and errors. You can, in any case, count on me to ask you quickly for an initial assessment of these international agreements.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-10-54-plenair-ip085x.u86	Mr President, Minister, I will be brief because my colleagues have already spoken widely. I would just like to say that, in our view, this project is in the right direction, which is why we will vote in favour of it. However, I am reluctant. First of all, I do not know – this question has already been discussed about the plan to combat tax fraud – how the staff whose numbers are already far too fair within the FPS Finances will be able to deal with the flow of information that will happen following the application of this automatic exchange of information. In my view, we are going to face an important problem with a lot of data that cannot be used for lack of sufficient staff, which is very regrettable. Secondly, this project of automatic exchange of information will be voted on, but at the same time bank secrecy is maintained in Belgium, which is contradictory. It is true that this bank secrecy can be lifted, but the procedure for doing so is quite cumbersome and the information is not transmitted automatically. So I can't help but read what tax lawyer Thierry Afschrift wrote in Trends Trends about it. It is not every day that I repeat the words of this gentleman – I will not repeat the words I have used in committee – that he is not a friend of the tax authorities. According to Mr Afschrift, in order to hide money from the tax authorities, we should leave his money to Belgian banks rather than abroad. I quote: "Today, if a Belgian resident taxpayer wants to have guarantees that the tax does not know the amounts on his account, the country in which he has an interest in holding his capital is simply Belgium. If they are placed in foreign banks, they will soon have to communicate the information to the tax authorities automatically, while if their assets are located in the Belgian banks, the tax authorities will only be able to know them if they already have excellent reasons to suspect the taxpayer of tax evasion." It's frightening! I conclude by pointing out that we are tabling an amendment to extend the disclosure of this tax information so that it can also be used for counter-terrorism purposes. Indeed, we have a very dynamic majority to take all kinds of measures against terrorism except as soon as these are financial and economic issues. In these circumstances, all of a sudden, we feel a chill. I am sure that, in the meantime, the majority has resumed and will vote for this amendment.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-10-54-plenair-ip085x.u87	Mr President, I will not repeat all the positive aspects of this important draft. However, I would like to make two additional points of criticism before the Minister replicates them. Firstly, the sanctions in this bill are on the low side. The second point is very close to my heart and the Council of State has also commented on it. The draft law before us goes beyond mere transposition of the FATCA agreement. It contains mixed powers for which also the Länder have some competence. This has been achieved without the Länder having been given the opportunity to participate in it. That's a dangerous precedent, isn't it? We will approve this draft because it is too important and it is something that should be approved by Parliament as a whole. However, I do not think it is possible to repeat that the Länder should be excluded, especially because they are mixed powers in which the Länder should have a say.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-10-54-plenair-ip085x.u88	Mr President, I would like to respond to Mr. Van Hees. With regard to the relaxation of bank secrecy in Belgium (intra muros), since the law was passed, the Special Tax Inspectorate, in the tax fraud cases that concern it, has already requested several hundred waivers of bank secrecy. It's real! We must rejoice! Also, pretending that nothing has been done is excessive. Unless I am mistaken, but the Minister of Finance must confirm or invalidate it, the transmission of information that will have to exist in the context of what we are asked to vote will concern not only the income derived from investments in accounts, but also the balances in those accounts. There will be a transfer of assets held in Belgium through the Finance FPS to other tax administrations. We have some criticism of the proposals under way, but overall they are in the right direction. I see that some NMOs view them with a good eye. This fight has been fought for very long years. At some point, obstructions have been on the part of a certain side of the political ladder in Belgium, but with a somewhat late awareness at European level, we are finally moving forward in this area. That is why we must be fair in relation to evolution. It is not perfect, Mr Van Hees, but it is a positive development.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-10-54-plenair-ip085x.u89	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, almost all speakers have pointed out that both the FATCA agreement with the United States and the multilateral CRS agreement are very important agreements, which support the international efforts to better identify tax avoidance. Further initiatives are currently under way, particularly within the OECD, to further develop this type of information exchange. That is what it is all about. We can only act if we know what it is about and where certain amounts are located. It is certainly my will and the will of the government to continue to respond to it. I think that, at the moment, the entry into force of the Cayman tax is very much in line with the international efforts that are being made and with the progress that is being made, and which, as Mr van der Maelen rightly pointed out, is taking place mainly under the impetus of the United States. Especially within the framework of the OECD, but also at European level, additional initiatives to promote, clarify, streamline, and thus gain a clearer grip on the fight against tax fraud, but above all against tax avoidance, are to be expected. I would also like to briefly comment on a number of specific issues that have been mentioned, in particular concerning the different treatment of the data exchanged abroad and the data received from abroad. Can't the tax administration use the first one and the second one can? Well, the situation is not the same. The information supplied abroad relates to Belgian accounts, to which in most cases a exempt withholding tax applies. In addition, it goes without saying that the tax authorities, through the appropriate channels, will always be able to obtain this information if necessary. As far as foreign information is concerned, these elements do not apply. There is no Belgian exempt withholding tax, nor can the Belgian tax authority simply request the necessary information, not least as it is in most cases unaware of the existence of the foreign accounts concerned. Reference has also been made to the fight against terrorism and the possible use of this kind of legislation in this area. It is clear that the fight against terrorism is an absolute priority for me too. However, the distinction has to be made between, on the one hand, an exchange of tax information, which is the subject of the present draft law, since both FATCA and CRS are concerned, and the fight against tax and financial crime. Specific and appropriate instruments and rules shall apply to each of those applications. I refer, of course, once again to the law adopted in September 2015 which allows the government to freeze funds from terrorist groups. There has been a call for an extension to developing countries, where, indeed, tax avoidance often removes important sums from local tax authorities. I am certainly prepared to examine further initiatives in this area. Mr Deseyn has already said it, and I have already indicated in committee that we must take account of the fact that, on the other side of the agreement, there must be a minimum level of legal certainty before it can be launched. But again, in the current context, I am certainly prepared to look at initiatives in this direction. I come to the involvement of the Regions. With regard to the FATCA agreement with the United States, a reservation is made so that the data obtained would not be used to establish regional taxes. As far as the other conventions are concerned, i.e. particularly CRSs, they do provide for the possibility of exchanging the information in question. However, during discussions with the Regions, I noticed that there was not much heat in this area. I am, of course, open to taking a serious look at any initiative that might arise in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-10-54-plenair-ip085x.u90	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-10-54-plenair-ip085x.u91	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1448/1) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1448/1) The draft law has 21 articles. The bill has 21 clauses. ******
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-10-54-plenair-ip085x.u92	Annex V.Part 2.124 • 3 - Dirk Van der Maelen cs (1448/02) • 9 years Marco Van Hees cs (1448-5) Annex V.Part 2.124 • 1 - Dirk Van der Maelen cs (1448/02) • 4 - Georges Gilkinet (1448/2)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-10-54-plenair-ip085x.u93	• 2 - Dirk Van der Maelen cs (1448/02)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-10-54-plenair-ip085x.u94	****** The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and articles that have been tabled and on the whole will take place later. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and the reserved articles as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. ****** Decision of the article-by-article discussion:
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-10-54-plenair-ip085x.u95	Sustained: the vote on the amendments and Rules 15, 17 and 18. Article adopted by article: Articles 1 to 14, 16, 19 to 21.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-10-54-plenair-ip085x.u96	******
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-10-54-plenair-ip085x.u97	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur, Mr Benoît Friart, referred to his written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-10-54-plenair-ip085x.u98	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1444/10) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1444/10) The draft law has 63 articles. The bill has 63 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-10-54-plenair-ip085x.u99	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-10-54-plenair-ip085x.u100	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mrs Kristien Van Vaerenbergh, rapporteur, referred to her written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-10-54-plenair-ip085x.u101	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1437/3) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1437/3) The title in Dutch was amended by the Committee in draft law confirming the Royal Decree of 10 February 2015 concerning the contribution to the operating, staff and founding costs of the Gaming Commission due by the holders of the licences class A, A+, B+, C, E, F1, F1+, F2, G1 and G2 for the civil year 2015 The Commission therefore concludes that the measure is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. The draft law has two articles. The bill has two articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-10-54-plenair-ip085x.u102	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-10-54-plenair-ip085x.u103	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Sonja Becq, Raf Terwingen, Philippe Goffin, Egbert Lachaert, Carina Van Cauter, Kristien Van Vaerenbergh
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-10-54-plenair-ip085x.u104	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-10-54-plenair-ip085x.u105	Mr President, I refer to my written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-10-54-plenair-ip085x.u106	Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? ) The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-10-54-plenair-ip085x.u107	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1477/4) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1477/4) The bill has 6 articles. The bill has 6 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-10-54-plenair-ip085x.u108	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-10-54-plenair-ip085x.u109	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Raf Terwingen, Sonja Becq, Philippe Goffin, Carina Van Cauter, Kristien Van Vaerenbergh
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-10-54-plenair-ip085x.u110	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur, Mrs De Wit, referred to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-10-54-plenair-ip085x.u111	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make two comments on the text before us. The first is that we are already being proposed to amend the law of October 19, 2015. It was this famous "pot-pourri 1" law, presented as a wonder that would simplify our procedure, voted urgently and under pressure, without taking into account the observations of each other, members of the committee and experts heard. Oh, surprise! It has already to be changed because difficulties arise. We could iron out this first aspect of my speech. If the situation were not serious, I would allow myself to do so, but it is proof that we are working rather badly, despite the goodwill of the members of the committee and its chairman. We have texts which, barely published in the Moniteur, must already be amended. The second reason for my intervention might seem paradoxical in that I have just tried to correct a text with which I fundamentally disagree. This is the text which provides for making the opinion of the Public Prosecutor's Office optional in cases under the jurisdiction of the Family and Youth Court. As long as it is to be done, since this text was so badly written that it must already be corrected, I find it necessary to take advantage of the correction in order to make it a real one. My intervention is in no way political but essentially technical. I did it before the committee, I wasn't very lucky. I am trying again at the end of the afternoon by resubmitting an amendment. What is the objective? It is a matter of simplifying the situation which is being created by the amendment envisaged by Mr Terwingen et al.'s proposal. Before the Family and Youth Court, cases are brought before 1 January 2016, the date on which the new text should apply, but are not yet pleaded. They are the subject of a postponement, of a postponement to a specific date, of the reopening of the proceedings, in short will have to return to the court. We also have cases before the family court where, by virtue of the permanent referral, a novelty which we have introduced at the time of the family court, the magistrate who may have already known of a case may be able to recognize it because, on simple mail, he is asked to resume a case because of the evolution of the situation. Finally, the third situation is that of the cases which will be brought after 1 January 2016. In this case, there are no difficulties. However, for the other two categories of situation, this will remain with the requirement of the public prosecutor's opinion. This does not bother me personally, but in everyday practice in family courts, professionals tell us that this will lead to difficulties. Where you want to simplify things, you're going to complicate them. At the same hearing, we can find the three situations that I have just mentioned. For some, the public prosecutor's opinion will be mandatory; for others, it will not, but it may be necessary if the court so requires. There will be a relatively long coexistence, impossible to determine at this stage, of different procedural situations which are absolutely not in line with the wishes of the proponents of the proposal. Had the minister been present in committee, I could have hoped that he would have accepted this purely technical reasoning, which would simply ensure that the famous Rule 50 was repealed in this proposal. We would then be in the application of a procedural law, applicable immediately to all situations, regardless of their origin. That would really make things easier. I hope that we can, together, vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-10-54-plenair-ip085x.u112	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? ) The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-10-54-plenair-ip085x.u113	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1476/1) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1476/1) The bill has 3 articles. The bill has 3 articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-10-54-plenair-ip085x.u114	****** The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendment that has been tabled, the article that has been adopted and on the whole will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendment and the reserved article as well as on the whole will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-10-54-plenair-ip085x.u115	****** Decision of the article-by-article discussion:
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-10-54-plenair-ip085x.u116	Held: the vote on the amendment and Article 2.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-10-54-plenair-ip085x.u117	Article adopted by article: Articles 1, 3.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-10-54-plenair-ip085x.u118	******
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-10-54-plenair-ip085x.u119	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-10-54-plenair-ip085x.u120	Mr President, I refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-10-54-plenair-ip085x.u121	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will not be long since this is a relatively technical text which has been the subject of general approval by the Committee on Finance for most of its articles. However, I shall return to two more problematic aspects, starting with Articles 45 and 46, which concern, as explained to me, the famous guarantee granted by the Belgian State to the creditors of the limited company Dexia – this time bomb, this sword of Damocles above our head. At all times, as environmentalists, we have challenged this solution adopted by previous governments, which places a serious risk on public finances, as a result of previous mismanagement and a lack of control over the development of the Dexia Group. We believe, Mr Finance Minister, that the agreement signed with the French and Luxembourg governments is clearly at the disadvantage of Belgium, since it carries the greatest share of the risk. This is obviously not in line with the respective weight of the three economies, nor with the historical responsibility in this case. Indeed, if we have denounced the Belgian aspect on several occasions, there is a strong responsibility on the part of the French Government and the French managers of this bank. In this case, Articles 45 and 46 are intended to give Dexia's creditors more guarantees in case of problems. The lease-in provisions would therefore apply, so that the Belgian State – in other words, all taxpayers – would intervene as a matter of priority. Since we have contested this guarantee from the beginning, we are also challenging these two articles. That is why I was unable to vote on the text as a whole, even if it did not pose a major difficulty. In any case, I should like to repeat here our great concern about this guarantee granted by the Belgian State, first without a legal basis, since then with it. The chairman of the Finance Committee is not present – and I am not blaming her, Mrs Fonck, especially since I know his attendance and he is able to defend himself. I therefore say this for all the members of the Finance Committee who are present: it is important that we rehearse Mr. De Boeck, the manager of Dexia for the evolution of the file. A second element that I shall come back to, Mr Finance Minister, is the amendment that you have introduced, which aims to give the Belgian authorities the capacity to freeze financial assets, particularly in the context of the fight against terrorism. The aim is to implement a resolution of the United Nations Council and to respond to the FATF, which on several occasions pointed to the delays Belgium has taken in this regard. This is all the more important in the context we know. Minister, I asked you in committee about the reasons for the delay in implementing these recommendations. You replied that you had to wait for the advice of the College of Attorneys General that you provided to us as part of the report. We didn't get it. If I had been more insistent, we would probably have received it in session. I did not read it at the meeting, but I did read it in the annex to the report. I would specifically like to ask you about the fate given by the government and by you to a specific remark made by the College of Attorneys General. It appears in the paragraph before the ante-epenulth of the letter of the College of Attorneys General. I quote: "The College is of the opinion that it is recommended that the Minister of Finance consult with the competent judicial authorities, first of all the Federal Public Prosecutor's Office, before making his decision." The particular concern of the College of Public Prosecutors is that a possible decision to freeze the assets of suspected persons should not jeopardize the proper conduct of the investigation. If we are still at the stage of a form of pre-investigation or pre-investigation, freezing assets gives a signal to suspected persons, while this may not be the right time to act. There is indeed a need for interaction between Justice and Finance. Unless I have been distracted, this remark from the College of Attorneys General has not been taken into account in the amendments that you tabled in the sitting. Is it voluntary? Is it because of lack of time? Do you intend to correct the text very quickly if necessary to take this remark into account? Have you met with the Minister of Justice on this matter? This is a debate that we could have had in the Finance Committee, but I was not aware of the content of the text. I was aware of the opinion of the College of Attorneys General. That's why I allow myself to question you. It seems to me that this is an important concern which must be taken into account as soon as possible, in all cases by means of an amendment to this text or a corrective law.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-10-54-plenair-ip085x.u122	There are no other speakers. So the government has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-10-54-plenair-ip085x.u123	Mr Gilkinet, with regard to your last point, I can confirm that the Minister of Justice and I have agreed on the comments contained in the report of the College of Attorneys General. For me, the text before us takes this report into account. With regard to your first point, the lease in Dexia, I would like to point out that this bill immediately regulates the effect on the third-party guarantor of a lease in, which is still central to this new framework of banking supervision. Belgium follows the German example. Belgium was obliged to take this step in order to provide legal certainty to the holders of obligations that are creditors of Dexia. Directive 2014/59/EU has raised some concern among these bondholders. By providing that these obligations are voidable – this is the result of a lease in, what is called a lease-inable – greater legal certainty is offered to their holders. This provision gives the financial markets a clear signal that, in the event of a lease in, the State guarantee is maintained, so that investors will not be harmed. The measure does not change anything. It is desirable to settle by law a particular aspect of the lease in concerning its effect on third-party guarantors. The question of the effect of a lease in on guarantors arises today when a guarantee under Belgian law has been given for a credit institution established in a country which has already adopted legislation on lease in, even though that legislation is still subject to enforcement measures for its entry into force.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-10-54-plenair-ip085x.u124	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-10-54-plenair-ip085x.u125	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committees is the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1459/7) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committees serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1459/7) The title was amended by the committees in draft legislation laying down various financial provisions setting up an administrative service with accounting autonomy (Social activities), amending the law of 11 May 1995 on the implementation of the decisions of the United Nations Security Council and laying down a provision on equality between women and men." The title has been amended by the committees in draft legislation on various financial provisions, establishing an administrative office with autonomous accounts, social activities, amending the Act of 11 May 1995 on the implementation of the decisions of the United Nations Security Council and laying down a provision on the equality of women and men. The draft law has 73 articles. The bill has 73 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-10-54-plenair-ip085x.u126	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-10-54-plenair-ip085x.u127	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur, Mr Dallemagne, referred to his written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-10-54-plenair-ip085x.u128	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1461/3) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1461/3) The draft law has 3 articles. The bill has three articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-10-54-plenair-ip085x.u129	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-10-54-plenair-ip085x.u130	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-10-54-plenair-ip085x.u131	Mr President, Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, this draft law was discussed at the committee meeting on 9 December yesterday. In his introductory statement and explanation, the Secretary of State points out that the high influx of asylum seekers forces us to play briefly on the ball. In this way, procedures should be prevented from dragging on for too long. This requires not only more resources, staff and internal reorganisation, but also legislative adjustments where necessary. All possibilities must be exhausted to speed up the effective treatment of appeals without, of course, affecting the legal protection of those concerned. In particular, in the case of asylum seekers who are being detained, there is a need for urgent action. For the professions under full jurisdiction of that group of asylum seekers, the effective time limit for treatment is currently 14.2 days. For appeals against a refusal to consider a multiple application for asylum of detained asylum seekers, that is 7.5 days. These deadlines are already good, but there is still room for improvement. Every possible margin must be used, because the capacity of the closed centres is limited, so the shorter the stay in those closed centres, the more return can be obtained from that capacity. A first way of speeding up the procedure is for all appeals brought under these two accelerated procedures to be immediately registered on the roll. In the current state of affairs, this can only be done if the application fulfils all the legal requirements. If the Registry finds that this is not the case, the regularisation of the application will continue to drag on indefinitely. The present draft law aims precisely to reverse the course of events by providing that each petition is immediately registered on the roll and that its regularisation remains possible until the court hearing takes place. A second means of speeding up the procedure is the transmission of procedural documents by fax. This results in a great time saving and is practically perfectly feasible, as the current UDN procedure has been operating under this mechanism for years in an extremely urgent need. This draft law extends this possibility to the appeal procedure against refusals of consideration of multiple asylum applications lodged by detained asylum seekers, as is already the case with the appeal procedures against refusal decisions in an initial asylum application. Finally, this draft law responds to the criticism expressed by the Constitutional Court in its judgment of 30 April 2015 on the cancellation procedure. It is now the case that if the summary note is not sent electronically or late to the Council for Aliens' Disputes, the action is dismissed as inadmissible. In line with the findings of the Constitutional Court, the lateness of the summary memoir is now punished only by the inadmissibility of the synthesis memoir itself, but not by the petition. In such cases, the Council will therefore still have to decide on the basis of the application. The safeguards already in place in order to provide adequate legal protection without excessive formalism are thus maintained and further extended. In the general discussion I myself noted that the draft law is in line with other measures taken by the federal government to ensure that the handling and flow of asylum files is as smooth as possible. The draft law will speed up proceedings under full jurisdiction, thus keeping the period of detention as short as possible. At the same time, it will also save the government, as the Treasury Inspectorate pointed out in its very favourable opinion. As a preliminary remark, Mr Kir indicated that the Secretary of State had announced at the beginning of the reigning period that the foreign law would be codified. However, this draft law aims to make specific amendments to that law for the umpteenth time. The speaker therefore asked about the working group which was supposed to work out the migration code. What will be the timetable of that work, so he wondered. Under the pretext of simplifying the procedure, he says, the government once again reduces the rights of the foreigner's defence by means of the bill under discussion, because the abolition of the eight-day regularization period threatens to weaken the position of the foreigner. Even if it remains possible to regularise the application, there is a risk that the applicant will only find out at the hearing that certain documents are missing and therefore unable to submit them. The speaker therefore considered it necessary to give the applicant the opportunity to complete the dossier in advance. Mrs Schepmans states that her group supports the draft bill under discussion, as it can shorten the detention period without affecting the fundamental rights of the foreigner or his legal rights. The draft therefore fully respects the coalition agreement. It also takes account of the judgment of the Court of First Instance in Case C-337/99. 49/2015 of the Constitutional Court, by which the Court annulled Article 39/81 of the Foreigner's Act. Ms Lanjri noted that the proposed procedure was in line with the comments made in the same judgment of the Constitutional Court of 30 April 2015 and also welcomed the fact that the procedures under full jurisdiction were being optimised. Mrs Lanjri also said that the reference to the use of the fax was fortunately temporary and that the fax would be replaced by e-mail as soon as possible. The Secretary of State has always worked well with the Minister of Justice on the removal of people in illegal residence with a criminal record, Mrs Lanjri said. She trusts that this will also be done before the use of the fax is abolished. Finally, Mrs Lanjri asks how many ongoing appeals procedures the proposed regime covers, how many procedures are currently in place in UDN, what concrete time savings the bill will provide and how many places that new scheme will allow for in the closed reception. Mrs Gabriels, the only person present so far, as I have already mentioned, is committed to ensuring faster and more efficient procedures leading to shorter stays in closed care. However, it also hopes that the use of the fax will soon be a thing of the past and that the regulation... Sorry, Mr. Kir, you're here too. That wasn't pretty of me, excuse me. A correction in the report. Mrs Gabriels also hopes that the use of the fax will soon be a thing of the past and that regulations will soon be adapted to the benefit of the use of newer technologies. Mrs De Coninck supported the idea of faster and more efficient procedures leading to shorter stays in closed care. It does not oppose a faster, more efficient and more transparent procedure, but calls for the justified concern to be applied to the whole chain. Also in the other places in that chain there is still room for optimization. It will also be a matter for the government, Mrs De Coninck said, to put these shorter procedures into practice. She also hopes, like Mr Kir, that the new migration code will soon be a reality. Mr De Vriendt concluded on the basis of his analysis, which, due to the late availability of the draft law, was relatively limited, that the proposed procedure would increase efficiency without compromising legal protection for the person submitting the application. The procedure will still be terminated in good time if it appears that all formalities have not been completed after registration on the roll. He asked the Secretary of State to give concrete figures of the efficiency gains that would be made with this bill. In addition, the Council of State welcomes the draft law and has not made any fundamental comments. Mr De Vriendt asked how the Secretary of State incorporated the bill into the overall reform of the Foreign Law and whether there were other limited legislative initiatives pending the global exercise. Mrs Matz pointed out that she was rather in favour of this draft law, which was intended to make the procedure more efficient, but regretted that it had been tabled so late in the Chamber of Representatives. It also stresses that the sequence of specific amendments made to the Law of 15 December 1980 will not benefit the general comprehensibility of foreign law. Like Mr Kir, she also asks when this conscious migration code will come into existence. From a legal point of view, this draft law does not seem necessary to restrict the rights of the defence; however, the removal of the time limit for regularisation could be a disruptive element. Mrs Matz asked if the Registry would inform the applicant if there were any documents missing. Mr Carcaci pointed out that his group supported the draft law because it could shorten the procedure. In his reply, the Secretary of State reiterates the need for a new immigration code. Due to the many amendments, the foreign law has become an almost unreadable and extremely complex piece of legislation. He states that this is not a good thing at all, either for the government or for foreigners. For this reason, the federal government aspires in the coalition agreement to the creation of a new migration code, which was the ambition of the previous federal government. However, the 2.5-year government period proved too short to achieve this objective. So it's a huge assignment. Consequently, the Secretary of State puts a four-year working period first. By 2018, he wants a concrete result on the table, on which the debate can be held in Parliament. A lot of work is already going on behind the scenes. According to the Secretary of State, a working group is working very hard and efficiently on the project. This comprehensive exercise does not, of course, prevent legislative work being carried out during the interim period. The codification does not, of course, hostage the ongoing work of the federal government on specific issues of asylum and migration. Moreover, the Secretary of State does not agree with the claim that the legal protection of the person concerned will fall. With this draft law, the stay in closed care will be considerably shorter. The case is already registered on the roll in a new regulation, so that, if necessary, it can be dealt with more quickly. After registration, documents may still be added to the file. Moreover, the Registry will still, where appropriate, write a letter to the lawyer of the person concerned indicating the elements missing from the file. Legal protection is thus maintained. At the same time, the procedure is being speeded up and so the stay is being shortened. The specific time savings of the new scheme are between eight and nine days. In view of the fact that a stay in a closed centre lasts on average 30.4 days, this is a substantial reduction. During the period from July 2014 to May 2015, an average of 20 professions are covered by the accelerated procedure. There are an average of 10 appeals on a monthly basis for a first refusal of consideration and 2.2 appeals on a second refusal of consideration. According to the Secretary of State, these figures are not very high, but they are a relatively limited number of people staying in a closed centre and applying for asylum. Then the Rule-by-Rule discussion began, followed by the votes. Article 1 was adopted unanimously. Chapter 2 concerns the accelerated procedure under the full jurisdiction of the Council for Aliens' Contests (RvV). Article 2 amends Article 39/57-1, third paragraph of the Law of 15 December 1980 on entry into the territory, residence, establishment and expulsion of foreign nationals. No comments were made. The Rule was adopted by 11 votes in favour and 3 abstentions. Article 3 seeks to amend Article 39/77, Paragraph 1 (1) of the same Aliens Act. Mr Kir has tabled an amendment to that effect. 1 to replace Article 3 in order to supplement Article 39/77, Paragraph 1, fourth paragraph of the Aliens Act. The purpose of this amendment is to oblige the Registry of the Council of Foreign Ministers to state in the notice of summoning the formal requirements referred to in Article 39/69, Paragraph 1, second paragraph, which must be complied with for the closure of the debates. This amendment is in line with the Government's intention, but at the same time guarantees a prior notification to the applicant. The Secretary of State stresses that he cannot take a position on this amendment unless he has additional information. Amendment No 1 shall be withdrawn by the applicant during the discussion. Article 3 was adopted by 10 votes in favour and 4 abstentions. Article 4 seeks to amend Article 39/77/1, Paragraph 1, first and second paragraphs of the Aliens Act. Mr Kir referred to Amendment No. The purpose of Article 2 is to replace Article 4 in order to supplement Article 39/77/1, Paragraph 1, fourth paragraph of the Aliens Act. The purpose of that amendment is to oblige the Registry of the RV to specify in the notice the formal requirements referred to in Article 39/69, Paragraph 1, second paragraph, which must be complied with before the debates are closed. This amendment is in line with the Government's intention, but at the same time guarantees a prior notification to the applicant. Here, too, the Secretary of State said that he needed additional information in order to take a position on this amendment. Amendment No 2 was withdrawn and Article 4 was adopted with 10 votes in favour and 4 abstentions. I shall then come to Chapter 3 on the cancellation procedure at the Council for Aliens' Contests. Article 5 seeks to amend Article 39/81 of the Aliens Act. No comments were made and the Rule was adopted by 11 votes in favour and 4 abstentions. Chapter 4 deals with the scope. Articles 6 and 7 define the scope of the draft law. No comments were made and both articles were adopted by 11 votes in favour and 3 abstentions. Article 8 in Chapter 5 deals with entry into force. That Article lays down 1 January 2016 as the date of entry into force of the planned law. No comments were made on that Article and it was adopted by 11 votes in favour and 3 abstentions. The draft law as a whole, including legislative improvements, is adopted by 11 votes in favour and 3 abstentions. Two amendments were tabled at the beginning of this part-session: Amendments Nos 3 and 4 by Mr Kir. The President of the Chamber therefore referred the draft law to the Committee on the Interior. This committee has just met, so on 10 December. Mr Kir explained his amendments. The Secretary of State has explained the position of the Council of Foreign Ministers. Amendments 3 and 4 were then rejected by 11 votes to 4 with 2 abstentions. The vote on the Rules took place on 9 December was confirmed. The draft law as a whole was adopted by 13 votes to three and one abstention. I hope that this will have produced a sufficient report on the draft law before us.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-10-54-plenair-ip085x.u132	Thank you, Mrs Smeyers, for your comprehensive oral report.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-10-54-plenair-ip085x.u133	Mr President, I thank Mrs Smeyers, who has been particularly comprehensive. I would like to reiterate some of my remarks concerning the fact that Mr Franken had committed himself to come with codification, with this desire to collect all the laws concerning the stay and removal of foreigners. I thank the minister for setting a timetable. At the beginning of the legislature, he had an ambition in the short and medium term. He probably realized that the work is titanic. He gives us an appointment in 2018. We will be following closely the evolution of this working group, which aims to clarify the law on foreigners and to bring together all the elements. I regret the lack of a comprehensive approach to this policy and that we are working in a segmented manner. That being said, I am not going to repeat the debate that we have had in committee and that has taken place in a good state of mind. I would like to reiterate our willingness, at the level of the PS Group, to resubmit the two amendments. I will justify our group's decision. For us, these are technical amendments that seek to balance the government's approach, not to oppose it. Yes, we need faster procedures. It is in the interests, first and foremost, of the applicants, but also in the interests of our administration of the government. But this speed of proceedings must not be at the expense of the rights of the applicants, nor of the rights of justice that must be done properly. It is for this reason that our amendments, which are simply intended to list any procedures to be completed before the end of the debate in the sitting, are indispensable. This, for us, is a formal step that will help to avoid refusals based on purely formal situations. This will also make the work of the judges more serene when they find that a formal condition is not fulfilled before the end of the proceedings.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-10-54-plenair-ip085x.u134	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? ) The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-10-54-plenair-ip085x.u135	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1506/4) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1506/4) The draft law contains 8 articles. The bill has 8 articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-10-54-plenair-ip085x.u136	• 4 - Emir Kir (1506/5) ****** The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and articles that have been tabled and on the whole will take place later. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and the reserved articles as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. ****** Decision of the article-by-article discussion:
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-10-54-plenair-ip085x.u137	Sustained: the vote on the amendments and Articles 3, 4 and 5. Article adopted by article: Articles 1, 2, 6 to 8.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-10-54-plenair-ip085x.u138	By letter of 30 November 2015, the first President of the Council of State stated that, in accordance with Article 80 of the coordinated laws of the Council of State, the General Assembly of that Council established a list of three candidates for a vacant post of Dutch-speaking assessor at a public meeting on 20 October 2015. This post is vacant because the mandate of Mr Michel Tison as an assessor in the legislative section expired on 18 October 2015. By letter dated 30 November 2015, the first President of the Council of State informed the Chamber that, at its public hearing on 20 October 2015, the General Assembly of that Council had proceeded, in accordance with Article 80 of the Coordinated Laws on the Council of State, to the establishment of a list of three candidates for a vacant position of Dutch-speaking assessor, following the expiry, on 18 October 2015, of Mr. Michel Tison's term of office as assessor with the Legislative Section of the Council of State. It was proposed by the Council of State, however, without unanimity: - first candidate: Mr Michel Tison, Professor at the Faculty of Law of the Ugent and Assistant to the Law Department of the Council of State; - second candidate: Mr Reinhard Steennot, Professor at the Faculty of Law of the Ugent; - third candidate: Mr Hans De Wulf, professor at the Faculty of Law of the Ugent. The Council of State, however, did not unanimously present: - first candidate: Mr Michel Tison, ordinary professor at the Faculty of Law at the University of Ghent and assessor at the Legislative Section of the Council of State; - Second candidate: Mr. Reinhard Steennot, Professor, Faculty of Law, University of Ghent; - third candidate: Mr. Hans De Wulf, Professor, Faculty of Law, University of Ghent. Since the nomination is not unanimous, the Chamber may, in accordance with the eighth paragraph of Article 70 (1) of the Laws of the Council of State, coordinate on 12 January 1973, either confirm the list proposed by the Council of State, or propose a second list of three names which are expressly reasoned. Since the presentation is not unanimous, the Chamber may, in accordance with Article 70, § 1, paragraph 8, of the laws on the Council of State coordinated on 12 January 1973, within a period not exceeding 30 days from the date of receipt of the communication of that presentation, either confirm the list submitted by the Council of State or present another list of three formally reasoned names. The time limit available to the Court to propose a list or to confirm the list shall expire on 2 January 2016. The time limit for the House to present a list or to confirm the list expires on 2 January 2016. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 9 December 2015, the CV of candidates will be delivered to the political groups. Hearings will take place in the Committee for the Interior, General Affairs and Public Administration. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 9 December 2015, the curriculum vitae of the candidates will be forwarded to the political groups. Hearings will be held in the Committee on the Interior, General Affairs and the Civil Service. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-10-54-plenair-ip085x.u139	In accordance with Article 4 of the Law of 18 July 1991 regulating the supervision of police and intelligence services and the Coordination Body for Threat Analysis, the Chamber appoints the five members of the P Committee, including one chairman and one vice-president, and two alternates per working member. In accordance with article 4 of the Law of 18 July 1991 on the Control of Police and Intelligence Services and the Coordinating Body for Threat Analysis, the Chamber shall appoint the five effective members of Committee P, including a Chairperson, a Vice-Chairperson and two alternates per effective member. With the exception of the president, the P Committee has as many Dutch-speaking members as French-speaking members. The chairman except, Committee P comprises as many French-speaking members as Dutch-speaking members. The members of the P Committee shall be appointed for a renewable term of six years starting from their swearing-in. The members of Committee P shall be appointed for a renewable term of six years, which shall take effect from the date of their swearing-in. With the exception of the Chairman, the term of office of the members of the P Committee shall end on 2 February 2016. The term of office of the members of Committee P expires on 2 February 2016, with the exception of that of the Chair. Since the President's term of office has not yet expired, the Chamber should appoint four working members (including a Vice-President), four first alternates and four second alternates. As the term of office of the Speaker has not yet ended, the House must appoint four effective members (including one Vice-President), four first alternates and four second alternates. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 9 December 2015, I propose that you publish a call for candidates in the Belgian Official Journal. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 9 December 2015, I propose that you publish a call for candidates in the Belgian Moniteur. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-10-54-plenair-ip085x.u140	The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. If there is no objection, I shall consider it adopted; in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be sent to the committees responsible. If there are no comments on this subject, I will take it into account as a matter of fact and refer the proposals back to the relevant committees in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-10-54-plenair-ip085x.u141	The Government requested urgent procedure under Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure when submitting the following draft laws: The government requested urgency pursuant to rule 51 of the Rules when introducing the following bills: 1. Draft law on various provisions relating to excise goods, as well as amendments to the General Law of 18 July 1977 on Customs and Excise, No. 1490/1. 1. Draft law on various provisions concerning products subject to excise duty, as well as amendments to the General Law of 18 July 1977 on Customs and Excise, No. 1490/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-10-54-plenair-ip085x.u142	Mr President, the urgency is being asked because there is a dispute with a few conscientious operators who use all the legal tricks to their advantage. The Constitutional Court and the Council of State consulted on this issue have called for this situation to be clarified as soon as possible within the framework of current legislation. In a ruling, the Constitutional Court stated that the concept of limits in the law should be defined as quantitative and qualitative limits. The law was passed to put an end to this legal vacuum.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-10-54-plenair-ip085x.u143	Mr President, I would like to thank the minister for the urgency. As this motivation is serious, we will accept the urgency.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-10-54-plenair-ip085x.u144	Thank you, Mrs. Onkelinx. I'd say "finally, finally." I would suggest that we speak on this question. I propose that we take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-10-54-plenair-ip085x.u145	2. Draft law on the assimilation of a period of non-activity of certain members of the integrated police for the career condition for early retirement, on the cumulation with a public sector pension, on the guaranteed income for the elderly and on the pensions of civil aviation flying personnel, No. 1502/1. 2. Draft law on the assimilation of a period of non-activity of certain members of the integrated police for the condition of career to leave for early retirement, in the matter of cumulation with a public sector pension, in the matter of income guaranteed to the elderly, and in the matter of pensions for civil aviation personnel, No. 1502/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-10-54-plenair-ip085x.u146	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I must ask you to excuse our colleague, Daniel Bacquelaine, who has suffered family mourning. As regards the matter before us, the urgency is called for in this text, since the prohibition on the accumulation of a pension on grounds of physical incapacity and replacement income should be abolished as soon as possible and the granting of a preferential limit on pensions granted on an ex officio basis on grounds of age should be reinstated. I am told that a large number of individual files are blocked pending the adoption of this text. It was tabled in the House on December 3.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-10-54-plenair-ip085x.u147	Ladies and gentlemen of the majority and of the government, it is singular and regrettable to ask for urgency about a text on which a vote has already taken place in committee coupled with a majority/opposition agreement for it to be voted on before 31 December. In spite of this, you are demanding an urgent vote today. I confess I don't understand, but I take note!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-10-54-plenair-ip085x.u148	Mr President, I agree with Mrs Fonck's remarks. This text is largely consensual. It has been the subject of very broad agreements. I do not think that this is a matter of urgency. But this request for urgency in this matter is not part of a confrontational approach, in no way or in any way.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-10-54-plenair-ip085x.u149	I would suggest that we speak on this question. I propose that we take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-10-54-plenair-ip085x.u150	3. Draft Law on Tax and Miscellaneous Provisions, No. 1505/1. 3. Draft law on tax and miscellaneous provisions, No. 1505/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-10-54-plenair-ip085x.u151	Mr President, the statement of reasons refers to eight parts of the draft law you mentioned. First of all, saving pensions. The Court of Justice stated in its judgment C296/12 of 23 January 2014 that by introducing and maintaining the tax relief for payments made in connection with pension savings in so far as it applies only to payments to institutions and funds established in Belgium, the Kingdom of Belgium has failed to fulfil its obligations under Article 56 TFEU. Belgium must comply with the judgment of the Court of Justice and was given the explicit question of when the adjustment will be made last week. Secondly, the dislocated zones. In order to further attract and support the investments that contribute to job creation, the government has decided to reduce the complexity of this measure so that the threshold for employers wishing to use this measure is further reduced. In view of the fact that in some situations the relaxation will apply from 1 May 2015, this amendment is best introduced quickly. Third, Tate & Lyle. The Court of Justice of the European Union delivered its judgment on 12 July 2012 in the Tate & Lyle case. According to the Court, Article 63 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union effectively precludes the levying of a 25 % personal prepayment on dividends distributed by a resident company to resident and non-resident beneficiary companies in the following case: these companies hold a holding in the capital of the distributing company of less than 10 % with an acquisition value of at least EUR 1.2 million. The current mechanism can only mitigate chain taxation for resident recipient companies only. Belgium must comply with the European judgment. This issue is of paramount importance in the context of legal certainty. The fourth element is the Disaster Fund. In order to deal with the claims files, it is important that the necessary resources can be made available. The fifth element is the ratification of the Royal Decree on the browsing tax. The sixth element is the ratification of the KB on the holding tax with a retroactive correction from 1 January 2015. Finally, with regard to disability health insurance (DHI) benefits, the aim is to prevent the increase in the holiday fee for disabled people, as decided by the social partners under the 2015-2016 welfare envelope, from being nullified by higher taxation. To this end, the calculation of the additional reduction for taxpayers whose net income consists exclusively of sickness and disability benefits is adjusted in the same way as taxpayers whose net income consists exclusively of a pension or replacement income.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-10-54-plenair-ip085x.u152	I would suggest that we speak on this question. I propose that we take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-10-54-plenair-ip085x.u153	4. Draft law to ensure the sustainability and social character of supplementary pensions and to strengthen their supplementary character in relation to retirement pensions, No. 1510/1. 4. Draft law to ensure the sustainability and social character of supplementary pensions and to strengthen the complementary nature of retirement pensions, No. 1510/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-10-54-plenair-ip085x.u154	Mr President, this is a text that implements the agreement reached in October by the social partners who make up the Group of 10. The desire to implement it is widely shared. The urgency is not only motivated by the desire to respect the commitment to bring into force the measures contained in this Agreement. Indeed, we know that several elements related to interest rates, bonds and the level of yield guarantee, as set out in these provisions, require adjustments. That is why we propose that you deal with this matter, which will be discussed tomorrow, if I am not mistaken, in the Committee on Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-10-54-plenair-ip085x.u155	Mr President, I would just like to make a small comment. The urgency is called for when an agreement has been reached between the opposition and the majority in order for these texts to be voted on. This is evidence of little, if any, lack of confidence. This is all the more regrettable because, earlier, you will ask us to make new agreements. I note that some members of the opposition agree with me on this point.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-10-54-plenair-ip085x.u156	Mr President, I would like to add something that I have not mentioned in my introductory statement. This is a question of a collective wish. Our request for urgency is therefore in no way motivated by a sense of distrust. Look at the declination of deadlines! It is simply a matter of translating a collective will to move this issue forward. So there is really no ambiguity in my approach.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-10-54-plenair-ip085x.u157	I would suggest that we speak on this question. I propose that we take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-10-54-plenair-ip085x.u158	5. Draft law amending the Law of 17 July 2013 laying down minimum nominal volumes of sustainable biofuels to contain the volumes of fossil fuel released for consumption annually (No. 1518/1). 5. Draft law amending the Act of 17 July 2013 on minimum nominal volumes of sustainable biofuels to be incorporated into the annual consumption volumes of fossil fuels (No. 1518/1).
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-10-54-plenair-ip085x.u159	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this is a text on the nominal minimum volumes of sustainable fuels, biofuels, which must be incorporated into the annual volumes of fossil fuels for consumption. However, a ruling of the Constitutional Court of 7 May 2015 invalidated part of the basic text and this legal vacuum must be filled. Currently, the legislation no longer sets this rate of incorporation of sustainable biofuels into diesel and no longer meets Belgium's European obligations at the same time. The urgency is therefore motivated by the need to have the law published in the Belgian Moniteur before 1 January 2016 in order to allow its application and the monitoring of its implementation on the basis of a full year, in the case of volumes of fossil fuels put to consumption annually. The urgency is also motivated by the legal vacuum that needs to be filled and which is part of the history that I have just reproduced to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-10-54-plenair-ip085x.u160	I would suggest that we speak on this question. I propose that we take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-10-54-plenair-ip085x.u161	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 126 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 15 Abstensions Total 141 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1480/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1480/4) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-10-54-plenair-ip085x.u162	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 2) Yes 130 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 11 Abstensions Total 141 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1471/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1471/4) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-10-54-plenair-ip085x.u163	Vote on Amendment No 8 by Stéphane Crusnière cs on Article 15. (1448/2) Vote on Amendment No 8 by Stéphane Crusnière cs to Article 15. (1448/2) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 3) Yes 48 Yes No. 90 No Abstentions 3 Abstensions Total 141 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 15 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 15 was adopted. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 3 by Dirk Van der Maelen cs on Article 17. (1448/2) Vote on Amendment No 3 by Dirk Van der Maelen cs to Article 17. (1448/2) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 59 Yes No. 82 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 141 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 9 by Marco Van Hees cs on article 17. (1448/5) Vote on Amendment No 9 by Marco Van Hees cs to Article 17. (1448/5) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 5) Yes 51 Yes No. 81 No Abstentions 9 Abstensions Total 141 Total The amendment was therefore rejected and Article 17 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 17 was adopted. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 1 by Dirk Van der Maelen cs on Article 18. (1448/2) Vote on Amendment No 1 by Dirk Van der Maelen cs to Article 18. (1448/2) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 6) Yes [[55]] Yes No. 82 No Abstentions 3 Abstensions Total 140 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 4 by Georges Gilkinet on Article 18. (1448/2) Vote on Amendment No 4 by Georges Gilkinet to Article 18. (1448/2) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 7) Yes 56 Yes No. 82 No Abstentions 3 Abstensions Total 141 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 5 by Georges Gilkinet on Article 18. (1448/2) Vote on Amendment No 5 by Georges Gilkinet to Article 18. (1448/2) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-10-54-plenair-ip085x.u164	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 6 by Georges Gilkinet on Article 18. (1448/2) Vote on Amendment No 6 by Georges Gilkinet to Article 18. (1448/2) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-10-54-plenair-ip085x.u165	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 18 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 18 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 2 by Dirk Van der Maelen cs to insert an article 19/1 (n). (1448/2) Vote on Amendment No 2 by Dirk Van der Maelen cs to insert an Article 19/1 (n). (1448/2) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 8) Yes 56 Yes No. 81 No Abstentions 4 Abstensions Total 141 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 7 by Georges Gilkinet introducing an article 19/2 (n). (1448/2) Vote on Amendment No 7 by Georges Gilkinet to insert an Article 19/2 (n). (1448/2) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 9) Yes 59 Yes No. 82 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 141 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-10-54-plenair-ip085x.u166	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 10) Yes [[140]] Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 140 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1448/6) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1448/6) Mrs Zuhal Demir, like her group, has voted.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-10-54-plenair-ip085x.u167	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 11) Yes 138 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 140 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1444/11) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1444/11)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-10-54-plenair-ip085x.u168	Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-10-54-plenair-ip085x.u169	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 12) Yes 141 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 141 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1437/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1437/4)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-10-54-plenair-ip085x.u170	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 13) Yes 132 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 9 Abstensions Total 141 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft. (1477/5) Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. (1477/5) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-10-54-plenair-ip085x.u171	Vote on Amendment No 1 by Christian Brotcorne on Article 2. (1476/4) Vote on Amendment No 1 by Christian Brotcorne to Article 2. (1476/4) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 57 Yes No. 81 No Abstentions 3 Abstensions Total 141 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 2 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 2 was adopted. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-10-54-plenair-ip085x.u172	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 15) Yes 82 Yes No. 57 No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 141 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be presented to the King as a draft for ratification. (1476/5) Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. (1476/5) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-10-54-plenair-ip085x.u173	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 16) Yes 127 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 14 Abstensions Total 141 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1459/8) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1459/8) Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-10-54-plenair-ip085x.u174	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 17) Yes 139 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 141 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1461/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1461/4) Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-10-54-plenair-ip085x.u175	Vote on Amendment No 3 by Emir Kir on Article 3. (1506/5) Vote on Amendment No. 3 by Emir Kir to Article 3. (1506/5) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 18) Yes [[47]] Yes No. [[84]] No Abstentions 10 Abstensions Total 141 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 3 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 3 was adopted. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]] Vote on Amendment No 4 by Emir Kir on Article 4. (1506/5) Vote on Amendment No. 4 by Emir Kir to Article 4. (1506/5) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-10-54-plenair-ip085x.u176	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 4 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 4 was adopted. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]] Vote on Rule No. 5. (1506/4) Vote on Article 5. (1506/4) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 19) Yes 93 Yes No. 34 No Abstentions 13 Abstensions Total 140 Total Consequently, Article 5 has been adopted. Accordingly, article 5 was adopted. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? Mrs Özen voted against.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-10-54-plenair-ip085x.u177	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 20) Yes 105 Yes No. [[25]] No Abstentions 11 Abstensions Total 141 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be sent to the Senate. (1506/6) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be forwarded to the Senate. (1506/6) Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-10-54-plenair-ip085x.u178	We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for the week of 14 December 2015. We must proceed to the approval of the agenda of the meetings of the week of 14 December 2015. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. I would remind you that the Conference of Presidents meets immediately. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Tuesday 15 December 2015 at 10 a.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Tuesday, December 15, 2015 at 10.00 a.m.
