ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic098x.u1	Mr President, Minister, this question was initially directed to the Minister of the Interior. I therefore ask the Minister of Finance to excuse me for asking him if he had already responded to it in this committee because it is relatively old. The Flemish Ministers-Presidents and the Wallonia-Brussels Federation, Geert Bourgeois and Rudy Demotte, have asked the Federal State to quickly clarify the part of local government spending that it will be responsible for in the debate on the public deficit. During the previous legislature, the National Bank was given the task of submitting a report on the fair distribution between the federal State and the federated entities of part of the charges under the local authorities. This report is still expected. However, the municipalities are responsible for a large amount of expenditure which is partly the responsibility of the Federal State, such as police missions, fire departments and certain pensions. There is also no need to recall all the security measures, particularly in the context of the fight against radicalism and terrorism, for which the municipalities are called upon. Local authorities are constantly pointing to their budgetary difficulties. Our communes are on the edge of asphyxiation. The federal state must take its share of responsibility. Minister, how soon will the National Bank report be available? How is local government spending allocated between the federal state and the federated entities? To what extent will this amount be charged to the federal budget? Where will you find this amount, which increases daily? Your colleague, Minister Jambon, had the opportunity to respond that he would ask for additional resources when adjusting. What about it?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic098x.u2	Mr President, Mrs Matz, although initially the intention was for the National Bank of Belgium to prepare a report analysing the results of the various components and designating responsibility for each level of power, it was decided, at the Consultation Committee of 6 November 2013, to ask the department of the Conseil supérieur des Finances to carry out this report. The above section and its president were formally informed by the Minister of Finance by letter of 25 November 2013, inviting the department to provide a response in the form of a supplement to the March 2014 opinion. At the end of March 2014, the report on local government budgetary developments was published on the CSF website. Given that the cooperation agreement of 13 December 2013 contains a passage stating that the section "Need for financing of the public authorities" should pay specific attention to the finances of the local authorities, the section considered that the March 2014 report on local authorities is a first phase of a process of in-depth evaluation of the budgetary situation of the local authorities. The next phase, in particular, the analysis to determine to what extent the local government deficit is really due to measures taken by the Federal Government or by the Regions and the German-speaking Community will in all likelihood be examined for the first time by the evaluation opinion of the section of the CSF concerning the budgetary results for the 2014 budget year. This is in particular the first assessment opinion following the cooperation agreement of 13 December 2013.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic098x.u3	Thank you, Minister. You're saying the CSF is going to examine the 2014 impact. Do you have a date to let us know? When can we wait for this report?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic098x.u4	I don't know that date. I'll find out and give you the date if it's available.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic098x.u5	Mr President, Minister, the question has arisen as a result of throwing away or wasting food that is brought back to the public at regular intervals. We all know that department stores also contribute to charities and sometimes even do special collections. Sometimes they also make donations from food surpluses. The question is whether this should not be encouraged or supported. In this respect, Minister Geens had written a circular to grant a VAT exemption if donations were made to the provincial food banks. The same exemption does not currently apply to smaller department stores or local traders who often give food or surpluses directly to local purposes. However, they cannot benefit from that VAT exemption. However, they are interested parties in this matter. However, if food is destroyed, a VAT exemption is granted. Then I come to my rather simple question. Do you think there should be equal treatment for food that is given away and food that is destroyed? Of course, the necessary evidence and guarantees must be provided. Do you have any intention of helping to promote this? One of the slopes is the involvement of local targets. Perhaps you have any other suggestions or ideas? Do you have an insight into what has been given to provincial food banks for unclaimed VAT in recent years through donations?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic098x.u6	Mr.President, Minister, in July 2013, the Senate passed a resolution to encourage the donation of food surpluses at the VAT level. In addition to food donations, the resolution calls on the government to examine the possibility of extending the scheme. Following the vote on this resolution, your predecessor took the VAT decision No. E.T. 124.417 of 31 July 2013 authorizing only the donation of surplus food to food banks. This decision came into force more than a year ago. Minister, have you ever assessed the decision to allow the donation of surplus food to food banks? Have you examined the possibility of extending the VAT exemption to donations in kind other than food surpluses? There is a real demand from the sector on this subject, not only at the level of traders but also in the voluntary sector, so that this exemption not only concerns food donations but also, for example, clothing, furniture or other objects. Your predecessor had indicated that he was not opposed to it, but that he wanted to see first how that measure worked before it could be extended. At the end of this evaluation, do you plan to make a decision to extend this scheme to donations other than food donations?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic098x.u7	Mr President, Madam, I instructed my administration, in early December 2014, to examine whether the scope of the decision you mentioned could be extended to other distribution channels. This was the subject of a consultation meeting on 24 February. I'll come back later. On the other hand, although the possibility of extending to in-kind donations other than food surpluses has also been studied, it has had to be ruled out. If a taxable person causes unsold goods to be destroyed under the supervision of the administration, there must of course be no VAT regularisation. On the other hand, if the taxable person withdraws a good from his business and disposes of it, that act shall be treated as a supply subject to VAT for consideration, provided that the VAT was recovered in whole or in part when the goods were purchased. If this is not the case, VAT is due on this withdrawal. In particular, VAT should be charged on the purchase price or cost of the goods, taking into account the state in which they are located and the age of the goods in question. European and Belgian legislation does not contain any specific provision according to which the free gift of goods to deprived persons is not subject to VAT. Following discussions with representatives of interested institutions, the administration has decided that producers and distribution companies in the food sector should not charge VAT on road-supplied foodstuffs, provided that they are no longer marketable and are given away to authorised food banks. The strict conditions of application of this scheme are provided for in the application No. E.T. 124,417 of 31 July 2013. This concession was initially limited to the food banks because they were recognized and united in the Belgian Federation of Food Banks. In addition, they have already built up a controllable system which will guarantee quality control and ensure that food distribution is made entirely free of charge and exclusively to the needy in Belgium through a 600 members and approved by them and beneficiary charitable institutions. The concessions made in the decision of 31 July 2013 were perceived in the sector as a step in the right direction. However, since neighbourhood shops and smaller supermarkets often have much smaller surpluses than large distribution companies and therefore have less recourse to national food banks, I instructed my administration at the beginning of December to examine whether this concession could be extended to distribution channels other than food banks, such as OCMWFs, and if so, under what conditions. On 24 February 2015, comme jíjai indiqué, there was consultation between my administration and the parties involved. I haven't been debriefed yet. As soon as that happens, I will not hesitate to inform the questioners. Mrs Becq, I would also like to see the figures, but unfortunately they are not available. I've asked them to try again.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic098x.u8	I fully understand that it is said that we must have a system which is controlled, especially in the area of quality assurance when it comes to foodstuffs. One cannot make sick by giving things away. I also understand that I have to re-apply my question. After your debriefing, you will be able to answer me. Then maybe you'll find in the VAT cabinet what donations...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic098x.u9	That was, of course, a boltade.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic098x.u10	I assume that the food banks know what has been received and that you should therefore have that information. That is the first element of control.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic098x.u11	Minister, excuse me, but I absolutely do not understand the justification you give for VAT. What is the difference between food and treatment? I know how things are for now: they have to destock. The whole is a complicated handling for large areas; some are willing to do so, like the Delhaize Group, towards food banks. Let's imagine it's only for these food banks right now. As a modest lawyer and non-taxist, I do not understand why what applies to food would not work with other stocks, for example, for a large area that sells food, clothing and furniture. The other day, we heard that a store had thrown away all its clothes, because the cost was less than giving them to a charity. I do not understand this legal technique. What is the difference between food and furniture or clothing?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic098x.u12	I'm asking myself the same question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic098x.u13	That reassures me!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic098x.u14	I was not present at the meeting that brought together yesterday those interested in this case. I'll get the report in the next few days. I know that it has been said that this is not possible; why? I still don't know. I'll see the debriefing and communicate it immediately.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic098x.u15	Mr President, if I may, I will come back to ask a question, because I would like to understand. I'm not satisfied with an answer "we don't know how to do it". I would like to know the real legal reason for not doing so. That there is a question of opportunity and that we still want to pursue the same system, I can hear it. Objectively, I do not understand and I look forward, like you, to the administration's response on the subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic098x.u16	Mr President, Minister, my questions were tabled a few weeks ago following the publication of the results of the stress tests in the insurance sector. Ethias would not have succeeded in the European stress test and would be hampered by the very low interest rates. At the time, three Belgian governments invested significantly in Ethias. Public companies have an exemplary role, even more than other companies, in business management and ethics. They need an active shareholder who is at the same time reluctant when it comes to operational issues. With regard to the results of the stress test, its possible impact on Ethias and the attitude of the government in this regard, I have a number of questions. First of all, how do you assess the current situation with Ethias? What risks are the Federal State exposed to as a result of the conclusions of that stress test? Secondly, what is the federal government's industrial vision with regard to Ethias? What agreements were made with the directors representing the federal state? What attitude should they adopt in Ethias? Thirdly, how is the consultation with the other public shareholders of Ethias going? What are the differences in the views of the federal state, the Walloon Region and the Flemish Region, if any? Fourthly, what is the federal government's view on remuneration policy in companies in which the government has a controlling interest, in particular Belfius, Dexia, Ethias and the National Bank? What wage ceilings apply in these four organisations? Finally, how was the professional reliability and appropriate expertise of all current drivers assessed? Was a so-called fit-and-clean test performed?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic098x.u17	Mr President, Mrs Smaers, thank you for your questions. The specifications about the current situation at Ethias are of course at the National Bank of Belgium. The National Bank is, of course, bound by professional secrecy regarding information about individual entities and therefore also about Ethias. As for the federal government's industrial vision, the following. The federal government is currently working on a more specific, individual vision of the various holdings. I stress that this is an exercise that is taking place globally and trying to take into account all the circumstances, not just the case of Ethias. As you know, there are a few other holdings in the government's purse in the financial sector, if I may put it this way. We are therefore currently working on the valorisation and further definition of the strategy for these various elements, including Ethias. As far as your third point is concerned, of course we group it within and around the FPIM where, as you know, the units are grouped together. That is the appropriate body to do the exercises you are referring to. There are also contacts, for example on Ethias, with the Walloon region and the Flemish Region, to know their attitude to possible scenarios that might arise. I will reply exhaustively to your fourth question on remuneration policy. As regards Belfius and Dexia, the Banking Act applies to both institutions. Annex two of this Act contains specific rules which, of course, apply to all banks. The objective of these rules is to ensure that remuneration policies are consistent with the long-term interests of the institution and to avoid encouraging excessive risk mitigation. I believe that, after what we experienced in 2008, this is a more than meaningful rule. For example, individual variable remuneration is limited to the highest of 50% of fixed remuneration or up to EUR 50 000. There are also a number of restrictions on variable remuneration such as, for example, a minimum of 40% delay over at least three to five years with the possibility of non-payment of the deferred wage, a minimum of 50% payment in the institution's financial instruments and some other measures of the same order. In addition, specific rules apply to institutions benefiting from exceptional State aid, also apply to Belfius and Dexia. For example, there is a principle ban on variable remuneration for those who are really in charge of these institutions. As far as Ethias is concerned, insurance undertakings are not currently subject to the legal restrictions in force in the banking sector. In the context of Solvency II, however, regulatory initiatives are being taken on remuneration which is in line with what is applicable to the banking sector. Finally, I would like to refer to a recommendation from the regulator of 26 November 2009 on sound remuneration policies of financial institutions. It addresses the previously mentioned principles of prudent remuneration policy. These principles are all aimed at ensuring appropriate and effective risk management within the institutions. I come to the question about the professional reliability and the appropriate expertise of the drivers, the so-called test. Ethias nv and Vitrufin nv, respectively the insurance undertaking and the holding company above Ethias, are subject to the prudential supervision of the National Bank of Belgium. This supervision, currently based on the Law of 9 July 1975 on the control of insurance undertakings, which will shortly be reviewed in the context of the transposition of the new European Solvency II regime, regulates not only quantitative aspects such as solvency margin, intra-group operations, profitability or interest rate risk, but also qualitative aspects relating to governance, organisation, suitability and effectiveness of the internal control system in relation to risk management. The supervision of governance implies, in particular, that the NBB evaluates on an individual basis the competence of all directors of insurance undertakings and their holding companies, in accordance with Articles 90 and 90a of the Act of 9 July 1975. Those persons shall have the professional reliability and appropriate expertise necessary for the performance of their duties on a permanent basis. In a circular dated 17 June 2013, the National Bank of Belgium describes how it acts in concrete terms in assessing the expertise and professional reliability of the persons subject to its supervision. Furthermore, the National Bank, the members of its organs and its staff are bound by professional secrecy. Therefore, they may not communicate to any person or authority the confidential information they have been informed of in the course of their duties, subject to the exceptions provided for in Article 36 of the Law of 22 February 1998 laying down the organic statute of the NBB. The information available to the National Bank on the expertise and professional reliability of the directors on the boards of Ethias and Vitrufin are not covered by the public domain.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic098x.u18	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Unless I haven't heard, you haven't ruled on the National Bank's wage ceilings and wage policy. You referred to Belfius, Dexia and Ethias.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic098x.u19	That's right, you're right. The answer to that remains yours and I apologize.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic098x.u20	I can ask a question about this later than that, Minister. I appreciate the fact that confidentiality or privacy is necessary for the current situation and financial data of Ethias, but I hope that through the representatives of the government and through the control of the National Bank you will adequately monitor the situation of Ethias with regard to solvency and liquidity and so on. I hope that, in line with the conclusions of the European stress test, the government and the Commissioners will follow up on the recommendations of the stress test. Surely it is our role as shareholder to be able to identify and monitor the difficulties. I ask you to ensure from the government that appropriate responses are made to the recommendations arising from the stress test.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic098x.u21	Minister, I would like to ask you again about charges on intercommunals. As you know, we have already had a very serious debate on this in this committee. We have put questions from the opposition and put arguments about the usefulness of subjecting intercommunals to corporation tax. In the meantime, your coalition partner CD&V in the Flemish Parliament on 27 January asked the Minister responsible, Mrs Schauvliege, what initiatives will she take with regard to the federal government, so you, to avoid the corporation tax to be paid being skimmed by the federal government. The CD&V group in the Flemish Parliament, I believe, has rightly argued that this measure at federal level encourages municipalities to leave the intercommunal contexts. Minister Schauvliege replied in the Flemish Parliament that this would be discussed in the Consultation Committee on 28 January next day. I would now like to hear from you the following. Firstly, was the subjection of the intercommunals to corporation tax indeed discussed in the Consultation Committee on 28 January? Secondly, what position was taken by the Flemish Government there? What questions were asked by the Flemish government? Thirdly, were commitments made by the federal government to the Flemish government?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic098x.u22	Mr Vanvelthoven, at the request of the Walloon Government, the subjection of intercommunals to corporation tax was discussed in the Consultative Committee on 28 January, as you have already pointed out. At this meeting of the Consultative Committee, the Flemish Government stated that it had similar concerns. However, the Walloon Government's request was to bring the system fully back to the situation prior to the Programme Act of 19 December 2014. The federal government didn't go into that. The Consultative Committee took note of the Walloon Government's note on this matter. I replied to a question from you during the parliamentary discussions of the programme law and also at the previous committee meeting that a circular will be published on the transitional period for intercommunals. On 24 February, at my initiative, a technical interfederal working group was convened to clarify and discuss this circular. I would like to return to the outcome of that consultation as soon as I have all the relevant information in my possession. That is not the case at the moment.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic098x.u23	Mr President, Minister, what exactly do you mean by an interfederal working group? Who's at the table with that?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic098x.u24	All the parties involved, including the regional governments.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic098x.u25	Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic098x.u26	Mr President, Minister, a few weeks ago you confirmed in a plenary session that the period of tax regularisation has come to an end. In 2014, an average of 44.3 persons were employed on that service for the treatment of the regularisation applications. As we have all confirmed in the government agreement that permanent tax regularisation has been discontinued, the deployment of staff may not be necessary either. When will the pending files be completed in the light of regularisation? What's your assessment of the issue? Has a staff plan been drawn up that takes account of the numbing of tax regularisation? Was there a change in the policy regarding new recruitments? When will the staff seconded to the Prior Decision Service return to their original service? That is where I think the manpower can be used. What personnel reductions do you foresee during this term of office in the Prior Decisions Department?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic098x.u27	Mr President, Mrs Smaers, the service you are talking about is expected to be completed by the end of June 2015. In recent years, employees who originally dealt with files on prior decisions have been used to deal with regularisation files which have reduced the speed of handling the files on prior decisions. When handling the regularisation files, these staff will be re-involved in the handling of the files on prior decisions. Due to the still increasing number of files on prior decisions, care must be taken to ensure that the service concerned can continue to have sufficient staff. There is therefore no immediate reduction in the number of staff. The employees who were temporarily made available to the contact point regularisations of the Prior Decisions Service returned to their records of origin at the end of 2014.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic098x.u28	Minister, I understand that a number of staff members have already returned at the end of 2014 and that some remain in post in order to be able to handle the final settlement until June 2015.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic098x.u29	Mr President, as a result of the regionalisation of a number of fiscal powers in the context of the Sixth State Reform, we have noticed that there are potential bottlenecks in the handling of joint dossiers brought before the Prior Decision Service. A few weeks ago we were also confirmed during the hearing and explanatory statement by Mrs Véronique Tai of the Prior Decisions Service in committee. The FPS Finance shall give its opinion in advance on all applications relating to the application of the tax laws under its jurisdiction or whose recovery and recovery it shall ensure. Sometimes combined files are submitted to the Prior Decision Service. It contains questions that affect the federal level of competence, but also questions that relate to regional tax matters. As a result of regionalisation, everything in regional jurisdiction has been transferred to the Regions and the Prior Decisions Service can in principle no longer issue rulings for regionalized powers, in particular the Flemish registration and inheritance duties. Apparently this is a domain that is common in such a combined file, with questions about VAT and other questions related to income tax. Such a file shall then be submitted to the Prior Decisions Department. That is where the shoe crumbles: how should these questions be dealt with, as the federal level no longer has jurisdiction over them? That question was put in the Flemish Parliament to Minister for Finance Turtelboom, who stated that she had started a consultation with you on the mixed dossiers. Minister Turtelboom has apparently proposed to involve Flemish officials in mixed cases in order to arrive at a joint decision that I assume will be drawn by the Prior Decision Service. In concrete terms, I have the following questions. How do you view a collaboration between VLABEL and the Prior Decisions Service? Are there any practical and/or legal objections to such cooperation? Do you consider such cooperation possible or do you consider it more appropriate that Flanders should take steps on this matter itself, for example within the framework of its own department prior decisions? Will FLABEL be involved in the prefiling phase or only in the actual examination of an application? How will you increase the exchange of information between the Prior Decisions Service and FLABEL?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic098x.u30	Ms Smaers, with the decree of 9 November 2012, the Flemish government decided to take over the inheritance tax service and some registration fees that are regional taxes. As from 1 January 2015, the Flemish Region, which had previously been responsible for changing the tax rate, the taxable base and the exemptions relating to these taxes, also has jurisdiction over the administrative procedural rules. During the preparation of the acquisition by the Flemish Region of the service of these regional taxes, the attention of the representatives of the Flemish Tax Administration was drawn to the fact that the officials of the Federal Public Service Finance would lose all competence in this matter from 1 January 2015 and that the Federal Service would therefore no longer be able to take decisions on these taxes. The Prior Decisions Department can only issue a ruling on applications concerning the application of tax laws falling within the competence of the FPS Finance and of which it ensures recovery and recovery. On the advice of the FPS Finance, the Flemish government has adopted a decree to allow the Contact Point regularisations at the FPS Finance to continue the regularisation declarations that had not been completed at the end of last year. If the Flemish government is considering a new decree initiative, it is obviously desirable that a prior consultation should take place in order to clearly agree with the federal government on the practical modalities of the possible forms of cooperation. They may then be included in a cooperation agreement. In the spirit of the special financing law, consultation seems desirable in any case, especially in order to avoid double taxation and to provide the Flemish companies and taxpayers with the necessary legal certainty. My collaborators have already had informal consultations with the Flemish Finance Minister's cabinet, Mrs Turtelboom, with whom I have already had a discussion myself. I will instruct the Regional Taxation Observatory to initiate consultations between, on the one hand, the FPS Finance and the Prior Decisions Department in tax matters and, on the other hand, the Regions so that the necessary legal certainty can be provided quickly and double taxation avoided.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic098x.u31	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. It is indeed important for you to discuss this matter jointly. There are certainly still a number of dispute cases where the division of powers is not clear. As you yourself describe, there is a risk that both governments will make a recovery or that no follow-up will be given from Flanders to decisions taken by the Prior Decisions Service. That's possible, too. The follow-up of the DVB's decisions must be ensured. Thank you for your continued follow-up to this dossier.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic098x.u32	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Clarinval's 1994 text was deleted.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic098x.u33	This is a technical question which I might have asked as a written question. I will give a brief introduction and then ask my specific question. As you know, my questions are usually answered with yes, no or abstinence. Cities, municipalities and OCMWs are increasingly working together for efficiency reasons. This is often done within the framework of a cost sharing association, as referred to in Article 44, § 2, 1°, bis VAT code. Participation in a cost sharing association is in principle reserved for a non-taxable or exempt taxable person. Nevertheless, Article 3 of the Royal Decree No. 43 in a tolerance consisting of the requirement that any taxed transactions should be limited to a maximum of 10% of the total operation. This is particularly important for cities, municipalities and OCMWFs, which have all used the same accounting system in the Flemish Region since 1 January 2014. However, it is unclear how the 10 % threshold should be calculated. For the calculation of the percentage and for the assessment of this 10 % threshold, please agree that the sum of the amounts included in addition to the schedules 01, 02 and 03 of the periodic declarations in the year in question is divided by the amount indicated on the line "R'II. Revenue from the financial year in questionThe state of revenue and costs (schema J7) So the answer is yes, no or abstinence.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic098x.u34	I'll try to do it a little more nuanced. The determination to which you refer does not, in principle, apply where certain members have the status of a mixed or partial taxable person. However, this rule is mitigated by the application of the so-called 10 % threshold to which you refer. It should be borne in mind that this 10% threshold can only apply if the transactions taxed by a member do not constitute a separate activity, but are only additional transactions in the exempt or not subject to VAT. In order to determine whether the exemption under the association applies, the ratio between the total amount of the taxable transactions and the total amount of the appeal proceedings carried out should be determined and calculated for each member per calendar year. For the purpose of calculating this ratio, certain amounts shall not be taken into account. It shall cover, inter alia, income from immovable and financial operations, unless such operations are part of a specific economic activity of that nature: general operating allowance, fine, etc. Therefore, when determining the 10% threshold, the taxable turnover cannot simply be compared with the amount shown under heading II, the state of revenue and costs, the scheme J. So much for my nuanced answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic098x.u35	Mr President, this is a very important question for you as a vessel of finance in Zaventem, which you can apply directly to your budget. I believe it is an important effect and I thank the Minister for his reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic098x.u36	Mr President, Minister, this is an old very. After all, this is not the first time that a question has been asked. As you know, the Copyright Act of 16 July 2008 created a tax benefit regime. However, there was still considerable legal uncertainty about the scope of this tax regime, as witnessed by the many questions that were asked about this for journalists, among others. In this unclear context, many publishers of news media went on to pay copyright fees to their journalists. The journalists concerned also indicated this income as a copyright fee. In the meantime, it has been found that tax officials, especially the BBI, often reject these declarations. This doesn't seem like much fun for anyone involved. A recent circular, published on 22 October 2014, was intended to provide more clarity. I also questioned you about that at the time. Indeed, that circular provides that journalists are to be paid in full in tax-friendly copyright fees, in so far as the agreement contains a concession of copyright and determines the remuneration for it. I raised this issue at a meeting on 19 November 2014. Although your answer was clear, some tax officials, in particular the BBI, continue to reject that practice. On the basis of the passage in your reply, to the extent that that agreement corresponds to reality, some tax controllers do not allow full copyright fees. In this way, many journalists are faced with heavy legal settlements and even fines. So I have a few questions. Firstly, can you confirm that with their original work journalists do enjoy the protection provided by the copyright law? Secondly, can you confirm that the circular 36/2014 effectively allows journalists to be paid in full in copyright fees, in so far as the conditions in the circular are met, in particular when the contract only determines the assignment of copyrights and regulates the remuneration for that purpose? Finally, can you confirm that the circular also applies to all similar situations since the adoption of the law in 2008? I am referring in particular to the situations prior to the publication of that circular.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic098x.u37	Mr Minister, at the end of 2014, in reply to an oral question on this subject, you said that a circular letter should clarify the field. However, just as I feared, this did not bring any clarity into the field and there remains a different interpretation by the services of the BBI and the services of the FOD who were responsible for the delivery of the circular letter. It is not possible for journalists, in the context of an investigation into their file, to fall victim to different interpretations by the services of the federal government and the Finance Department. Minister, I have asked you six questions on this subject, which you can find in my written presentation. I hope that the answer will now give more clarity as to who is right in dealing with the dossiers and whether progress can be made in dealing with files that have long been suspended from the FBI in the context of this problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic098x.u38	Mr President, Mr Dedecker, Mrs Smaers, I believe that the law of 16 July 2008 did not create legal certainty or at least did not provide sufficient legal certainty. On the contrary, under the 2008 Law, income from copyright could be qualified in different ways. Depending on the specific circumstances in the interpretation of tax officials and judges, such income could be considered as moving income, diverse income or professional income. Since the entry into force of the Act from 1 January 2008, in almost 95% of cases, income from such rights can only be classified as movable income. The provisions of the Law of 16 July 2008 can only be applied in respect of income derived from the assignment or consession of copyright and related rights, as well as the legal and compulsory licences relating to a work of literature or art protected by the Law of 30 June 1994 on Copyright and Related Rights or by a corresponding provision in foreign law. The Law of 30 June 1994, which falls within the competence of the FPS Economy, does not define what is meant by a work of literature and art, so that it is ultimately up to the courts and courts to decide what is or is not protected. With regard to the application of the circular referred to by the honourable Members, I can generally confirm that if the contract refers only to a concession or a concession of copyright and not to the performance of the artist, the full remuneration shall be deemed to relate to the assignment or concession of copyright. The parties are free to determine which part of the fee relates to copyright and which part relates to benefits. As soon as there is no doubt that copyright is being transferred, as is undoubtedly the case with journalists, the parties can freely divide or reverse their remuneration. The provisions contained in the circular have been applicable since the introduction of the 2008 Act. They therefore also apply to situations prior to the publication of the relevant circular. The above also applies to paying journalists. However, the provisions of social law must also be taken into account for wage-earners. I would like to remind you that the Prior Decisions Service in tax matters is an autonomous service within the FPS Finance. In this respect, the service is particularly competent to take prior decisions in tax matters, giving each taxable person the opportunity to obtain a preliminary opinion from the FPS Finance on the tax consequences of a particular transaction or situation which has not yet had an effect on tax matters. The taxpayer is, of course, free to use the procedure or not. Finally, I should like to mention that 61 files have been placed on the work plan in the General Administration of the FBI with regard to the issue of copyright journalists. When checking those files, the BBI should, of course, take into account the provisions contained in the circular referred to.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic098x.u39	Thank you, Minister, for your comprehensive and detailed reply. At the end, please explain that the BBI must take into account the provisions set out in the circular. That is a very important explanation and I hope that it has also been received there. You also referred to the ruling service or the DVB. This service is indeed intended to provide legal certainty in advance, but this should not be necessary. That goes without saying. In this respect, you have already provided sufficient clarity.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic098x.u40	The transfers, Mrs Pas, it has been a long time since we discussed them. You ask what is going on with the 8 or 10 billion euro transfers from Flanders to Wallonia.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic098x.u41	Indeed, Mr President, you have summarized it in a striking way. The transfers have become taboo. They have been silenced lately, and someone has to put them on the political agenda. Minister, every year several billion euros are still moving from Flanders to Wallonia in the form of the so-called transfers, which run through different channels. A distinction is made between transfers through social security, through the federal budget and through the special financing law. In a number of cases, the interest on debt is also counted. But there is no clear picture of the extent of the transfers. However, many studies have already been published on the scale of transfers, studies of private bodies, scientific institutions, public authorities. Your party released a new study a year and a half ago. Scientific research in this field has been conducted for a number of years by the VIVES institute of the KU Leuven, which regularly brings out new figures. I can also refer to a study ordered by the Flemish Government a few years ago. However, it has to be noted that all these studies produce different results in terms of the size of transfers. Your party's study talks about 8 billion euros of transfers per year. Other studies refer to EUR 6 billion. Other amounts are mentioned. If the debt interest is included, it amounts to between EUR 12 billion and EUR 16 billion. In short, there is a lot of difference and noise on the estimated handling of the transfers. It has also been discussed for years in this country because researchers find that there is a lack of data so that they cannot fully and accurately map the transfers. If the debate is to be conducted purely on this subject, there must be indisputable data available. The federal government seems to me to be the most appropriate. In principle, you have all the information that can map this problem. You can, perhaps, be the only one to bring about complete openness and clarity in this area. I think it is appropriate that you, like the Flemish Government at the time, validate the neutrality of the methods used and the results by a validation committee with external experts, so that everything can be done independently. Even more important than mapping those transfers is their phasing out. It is an open door when it is said that these transfers, on the one hand, skim the prosperity of Flanders and, on the other hand, rock Wallonia to sleep, as a number of Walloon professors confirmed a few years ago. First of all, has the federal administration already carried out concrete research into the flows of money between the regions? If so, I would have liked the objective figures of these transfers of funds between the regions. Secondly, has the federal government already carried out independent investigations into inter-regional financial flows, both in the specific sub-areas and in its globality? If so, what studies are these and what were the findings? Thirdly, following the example of the Flemish Government a few years ago, do you intend to instruct the administration to fully map both the historical and the current transfer issues? Are you prepared to have the results verified by an independent validation committee? Finally, do you agree with me that these transfers should be phased out? Is the federal government taking or are you taking initiatives to start doing so during this period of government? If so, then I am very curious to see what we can expect from it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic098x.u42	Minister, we look forward to your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic098x.u43	Mr President, I thought that was the case with every question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic098x.u44	But this is an important question. It's been almost two years since she was asked.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic098x.u45	Mr President, Mrs Pas, first of all, has the federal administration already carried out research into the flows of money between the regions? We have no knowledge of research carried out by the federal administration on transfers between the regions through the government budget. Secondly, has the federal government already carried out independent investigations into inter-regional financial flows, both in the specific sub-areas and in its globality? Nor do we have any knowledge of independent research carried out at the request of the federal government on transfers between the regions through the public budget. However, in 2008 the National Bank of Belgium analysed on its own initiative the inter-west transfers and solidarity mechanisms through the government budget. This is a one-off study, the results of which are largely based on the regional accounts of households published by the bank on behalf of the Institute of National Accounts. The results of this analysis are published in the bank's economic journal of September 2008 and can still be consulted on the National Bank's website. This study carried out by the National Bank of Belgium on inter-west transfers and solidarity mechanisms through the public budget shows that the Flemish Region is net payer of inter-west transfers, while the Walloon Region is net recipient of them. The Brussels-Capital Region is also net contributor, albeit to a more limited extent. These inter-western transfers are to a large extent due to differences in the contribution capacity per region. The contribution capacity of households is significantly higher in the Flemish region than in the other two Belgian regions. This is due to the high primary income of households per inhabitant in the Flemish Region. These differences in turn result, inter alia, from the fact that the employment rate in the Flemish region is significantly higher than in the other regions. However, in the Brussels-Capital Region, the relatively low contribution capacity of households is largely offset by the high contribution capacity of the enterprises operating in that region. As regards your third question, the National Bank carried out that study in 2008. In addition, there are numerous research entities that publish annual studies on future and historical flows around this theme. In my view, these studies are a sufficient basis for the public debate on this issue. I come to your fourth question. Well, this government is implementing the sixth state reform approved by the previous government. One of the consequences of this is that inter-Western transfer flows will decrease. What might perhaps be a useful exercise is that the National Bank or an investigative body would, within some time, try to identify the effects of that sixth state reform in their entirety. That needs to be considered in due course.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic098x.u46	Minister, you are referring to a 2008 study by the National Bank and I am not unaware of that study. This study is only about the government budget, so only one aspect of the many channels through which the transfers run. You say that enough studies are already being carried out by all kinds of bodies, but the thrust of my question is just that all these studies contradict each other. There is also a lack of data to get a complete correct picture of the correct size of these transfers. It is a missed chance that you, who have all that data, do not want to have it carried out through your administration. Ten years ago, your party brought out the billion-dollar transfers with a campaign of media attention in Strépy. I hope that was not just for media attention, but that the content of that message was indeed relevant. I understand that this is not in the government agreement and that it is not easy for you to convince your partners in the government to do something about the phasing out of these transfers, but I find it incomprehensible of all Flemish parties that precisely in times of economic crisis and savings, those billions of flows are being kept silent. I will certainly support you with a motion of recommendation in order to find sufficient support within this government, even if only to map the full extent so that the discussion can at least be conducted in a correct and clear way.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic098x.u47	At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Barbara Pas and Mr Jan Penris and reads as follows: The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mrs Barbara Pas and the answer of the Minister of Finance, - having regard to the annual transfers of billions from Flanders to Wallonia; - having regard to the various studies carried out to date, - whereas these studies give very different results on the extent of these transfers due to the absence of a number of data; - whereas the Federal Government is the most appropriate body to clarify this matter as it has all the information to clarify it; - whereas it is important to have undisputed figures on this subject so that the political debate can be conducted purely; - whereas it is therefore necessary for an independent validation committee of experts to decide in advance on the accuracy of the methodology used and the results of research; - whereas there is an urgent need to reduce these transfers, asks the Minister of Finance - to have the administration carry out an investigation into the historical and current flows of funds between the regions; - to have the research method and its research results validated by a validation committee composed of independent and external experts in the field; - to take initiatives to begin the phasing-out of these money flows.' A motion for recommendation was tabled by Ms. Barbara Pas and Mr. Jan Penris and reads as follows: The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Mrs Barbara Pas and the Minister of Finance's response, - in view of the annual transfers of several billion euros from Flanders to Wallonia; - having regard to the various studies carried out so far on this subject; Whereas, due to the absence of certain data, these studies lead to very different results in terms of the extent of transfers; - Considering that the federal government, since it has all the necessary data, is the most appropriate forum for clarity on the subject; Whereas it is important to have undisputed figures on this point so that the relevant political debate can be conducted fairly; - Whereas it is necessary for this purpose that an independent validation commission composed of experts decide in advance on the accuracy of the method applied and on the results of the study; - Whereas it is urgent to put an end to these transfers, asks the Minister of Finance - to have the administration carry out a study on the historical and current financial flows between the Regions; - to have the method of analysis and the results of this study validated by a validation committee composed of independent and external experts in the field; - to take initiatives to start putting an end to these financial flows." A simple motion was tabled by the ladies Sophie Wilmès and Veerle Wouters and by Mr Éric Van Rompuy and Luk Van Biesen. A simple motion was tabled by Sophie Wilmès, Veerle Wouters and MM. {\pos (192,210) } ric Van Rompuy et Luk Van Biesen. Motions for resolutions will be voted on at a later date b. The meeting's over. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic098x.u48	Mr. Chair, Minister, as you know, the process of moving part of the FPS Finance services took place about two weeks ago. About 50 people are settled in the Tower of Finance. In the long run, there will be 1,100 public servants working in the new tower. It is important to ensure that these 1,100 people are accommodated in the best possible working conditions. It's the least that happens when you arrive in a new building even though I know that the new buildings must be young. Some adjustments may have to be made. Nevertheless, some questions arise. We learned that there were many flaws in this building, including broken windows. There would also be a problem with cleaning. The team of 15 people who were to be hired to perform this task was not involved due to lack of budget. The public servants also saw their drinking water fountain replaced by vending machines and payers. Agents were also reportedly prohibited from decorating their office or bringing a green plant. Officials of this new facility are also concerned that the building is only monitored by a single security officer when it is a public building with all the fears that one may have about this type of institution. Indeed, soldiers have been deployed in a lot of places and here there is only one guard. Is that enough for such a building to house more than 1,000 public servants? The move will have cost 500,000 euros and the annual rent is 5.9 million euros, which is still not nothing. Minister, do you confirm to me that officers are prohibited from decorating their workspace? What is the rationale for such a decision? Without going too much, a certain personal touch can be interesting. Is it true that there are leaking problems? When will all the equipment including the kitchen be installed? Will the security around this new location be enhanced? In the meantime, in relation to the question I have tabled, further information has been published. I understand you don't have the answers to these, but it seems that printers are installed in the cafeteria. I can understand that we are trying to use the slightest space, but I wonder if this is quite normal. Finally, it appears that access to the second and third basements is inaccessible. Is that true? If so, why?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic098x.u49	Mr Mathot, with regard to the decoration of the offices, no prohibition – none, I stress – has been formulated. The only restrictions relate to elements that can permanently damage wall coverings and partitions, e.g. pinholes or nails. A system of candles is provided for the display of services. For convenience, agents were also asked to limit the size of plants in the building. With regard to the defects in the building, the Régie des Bâtiments – the owner of the building – and the contractor made a provisional reception of the work. As a result, remarks, which did not call into question the provision of the building, were made. The contractor must correct these defects within 180 days. This applies in particular to broken tiles, which will thus be replaced. Most of the leaking problems are resolved and monitored very carefully by the Régie, the contractor and the occupant, i.e. the Finance FPS. With regard to facilities and equipment, including the kitchen, the SPF Finances has three months, i.e. until the end of March, to release three of the surrounding buildings, which are the most important: the administrative center of the State, sis rue du Paradis, and the buildings installed rue Sualem in Liège and rue Large in Chênéé. The relocations, involving approximately 900 out of the 1,100 planned, are thus spread over this period. The incremental nature of our taking possession of the premises is reflected in the gradual installation of the equipment. As for the kitchen, this is the temporary move of part of the old installation in order to guarantee a reduced service pending the final installation of the new kitchen, for which the Régie des Bâtiments manages the specifications. On the issue of building security, a security officer is scheduled for the entire year, working days from 08:00 to 19:00. Another officer will strengthen this workforce during the month of June from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m., during the period of heavy influx, that of tax returns. The building will be equipped with an external and internal video surveillance system at the waiting room and front office. The offices are equipped with anti-panic pushbuttons to alert the security guard in case of threatening behaviour by a taxpayer. There are no plans to strengthen this security mechanism, which is considered to be sufficient.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic098x.u50	Minister, thank you for your answer. I understand the details of the provisional receptions. There are two outstanding issues in the questions I have asked. First of all, there is the problem of cleaning. According to my information, fifteen people were planned and they would not have been hired because of a lack of budget. So I wonder how the building will be cleaned. Then, access to a drinking water fountain would have been replaced by a paid distributor. I'll come back to you on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic098x.u51	Mr President, Minister, since the subprime crisis, the aversion to the risk of a large majority of financial actors has greatly increased. They are increasingly keen to secure financial transactions with high-quality collaterals. In parallel with this phenomenon, the adoption of new prudential rules, particularly those relating to derivatives transactions, has also required greater security for derivatives transactions. As a result, the appetite of financial players for quality collateral has been growing steadily in recent years. The situation is such that some experts do not hesitate to talk about a shortage of high-quality collateral, i.e. financial assets considered to be very liquid and low-risk. This growing scarcity could have adverse consequences for the stability of the financial system. First of all, this will certainly contribute to increasing the complexity and opacity of collateralised assets. Second, this could also have a negative impact on the supply of credit from banks. Therefore, Minister, what is the situation of Belgian credit institutions in this field? Do you think that the policy of quantitative easing initiated by the ECB could reinforce this shortage?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic098x.u52	Mr Mathot, first of all, I must apologize because, by mistake, the answer has been prepared in Dutch. I'm going to give it to you not too quickly because it's a relatively technical matter. It should be noted that Belgian credit institutions currently rely only to a limited extent on Eurosystem liquidity-providing credit operations. For such operations, the list of guarantees accepted by the Eurosystem is rather broad. Credit institutions may, and do, deposit guarantees for high amounts of collateral that do not fall within the Eurosystem's procurement programme or only on their own initiative. The Belgian banks have a very significant margin on the guarantees available and currently not used. By the end of 2014, they had provided the National Bank with guarantees amounting to EUR 140 billion while they had raised less than EUR 6 billion of credit. As far as your second question is concerned, the expanded Eurosystem purchase programme will effectively acquire significant volumes of securities that are characterised by high quality guarantees. However, the Eurosystem's Board of Governors of the European Central Bank has decided that these securities will be made available again to the market in the form of securities lending activity. Therefore, should a market deficit arise for a specific effect during the duration of the programme, it may be borrowed temporarily from the Eurosystem provided that it guarantees another effect accepted by the Eurosystem as a guarantee. In this respect, therefore, shortages of specific impacts will be avoided.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic098x.u53	Minister, thank you for your answer. I understand the whole thing. But would it be possible to give me a translation to be sure of understanding? If so, I will come back to ask more questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic098x.u54	Mr President, Minister, the use of approved cash registers is currently being implemented by the horeca sector. An operator of an establishment where meals are regularly consumed, as well as a caterer who regularly provides catering services, are required to issue to the customer, subject or not subject, the cashier ticket provided for in the Royal Decree of 30 December 2009 laying down the definition and conditions to be met by a cash register system in the horeca sector, for all their horeca activities, including the delivery of meals at home. An administrative tolerance had been provided, according to a circular issued in 2010 explaining that "the operator will have to issue a ticket from his cash register system for all operations carried out regardless of their nature and regardless of the quality of the customer. However, if the customer is a taxable person or a non-taxable legal person, no cash register system shall be established, provided that the full invoice is issued at the time of completion of the service." This administrative tolerance was repealed and replaced by another circular in 2014, which provides that the cashier ticket must be issued regardless of the quality of the customer: "The issuance of an invoice may never replace the issuance of a cashier ticket from a cashier system, not even when the invoice is issued at the completion of the service or at the time of delivery." It is also explained in this circular that "where the customer is a taxable person or a non-taxable legal person, an invoice must always be issued in addition to the cash ticket of the cash register system. The issue of a cashier's ticket to a cashier's system can therefore never replace the issue of an invoice. This invoice has to be taken over in the exit invoicer". You understand the difference between the initial administrative tolerance and the current circular. If the conclusions that can be drawn from this are correct, in the case of deliveries of meals at home, with subsequent invoicing, the benefits are recorded twice. This implies that, when completing the VAT declaration, the amount of this transaction must be reduced by the total turnover shown in the cash register system so that the transaction in question is not repeated twice. All this leads to a large, unnecessary and probably administrative surplus of administrative work. Minister, my question is quite simple. Given this problem, do you have a solution in your toolbox to address this particular problem?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic098x.u55	Mr President, Mrs Wilmès, my answer will be in two parts. First, a cash ticket and an invoice have distinctly different roles and are not substitutable. The cashier's ticket is a control document which allows the proper execution of a transaction at the time it is carried out, while the invoice finds in principle a taxable transaction. This invoice must be issued if a supply of goods or services has been made by a taxable person acting in the course of his economic activity. However, the issue of a cashier ticket produced by the cash register system (SCE) cannot replace an invoice and vice versa. Similarly, such an SCE ticket cannot be regarded as a simplified invoice, which must contain the VAT identification number of the purchaser or lessee or, failing that, his name or company name and full address. Consequently, the operator subject to the cash register system must issue an SCE ticket considered as a control document, regardless of the quality of the customer and, in addition, issue an invoice whenever his client is a taxable person or a non-taxable legal person. Second, the cash register system is more efficient and reduces the risk of error. This new system avoids the issuance of notes or receipts which, in the old system, required certain handwritten statements, namely the number of meals consumed and the distribution of the amount due between meals and drinks. It also generates reports summarizing the daily turnover avoiding tedious work at the end of the service which, in turn, is conducive to errors. In your example, there will certainly be extra-accounting work on the VAT return but which will consist of simply subtracting the amount of the invoices issued from the total amount included in the cash register system. So we cannot talk about a net surplus of work compared to the previous system.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic098x.u56	Minister, you too may be convinced that security in the port is very important. Customs have been doing excellent work for many years in the framework of the control of all in- and outbound traffic. Especially in times of terrorism and international threat, the security of our port as a gateway to Europe is crucial. Customs have four scanners in the port of Antwerp. The main scanner is located in the Waaslandhaven, on left bank at the border inspection post. It scans around 30 000 containers on an annual basis. The international standard is 32 000. So that's an approximate standard for that plane. You informed me in response to a written question earlier this legislature that 28 979 scan inspections were carried out in 2013 and in 2014, until the end of September, 25 305. On average, you also let me know at that time that about three hundred infringement cases were established on an annual basis. One finding often corresponds to several infringements. The number of infringements is therefore even higher than the number of cases. The other devices have a previously limited scanning capacity. Since January 19th there has been a problem with the main scanner. It would no longer be operational. Apparently water damage is one of the causes. If one knows that the aircraft scans on an average of 2 500 containers on a monthly basis, then the port runs towards me, especially in the container traffic of the Waaslandhaven, a risk that no good person or institution wants to run. I would like to stress that it is not a question of money for me. It is not a question of loss of income, it is mainly a question of security. Illegal trade, terrorism and international threats, we all have our mouths full. I understand that customs have implemented a number of recasts to deal with this temporary situation. The mobile scanner, with a lower capacity, is now being used for this, but the consequence is of course that it cannot be used elsewhere. Mr. Secretary, how come the scanner no longer works? Is water damage the cause? Why is that? Who's responsible for that? Is it about a dysfunction? Is it because of third-party work or is it a mistake of your own? Who will pay for the repair? When will the scanner be operational again? How are these devices maintained? Does this happen through your own services or with a maintenance contract? I'm interested in that. The second part of my questions concerns the short-term consequences. How many containers have been scanned since January 19th? How does that relate to the average in a normal period of time? Which devices are being deployed now? What are the officials who normally serve the fixed scanners doing now, that would be at least five per shift? Is there also another scanning capacity to be used temporarily, for example the scanners in Zeebrugge? Thirdly, as far as a long-term structural solution is concerned, what investments or other initiatives are you planning to avoid such problems? Minister, I have asked more questions than in my written submission. I understand that you cannot answer every detail of my question, but I look forward to your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic098x.u57	Mr President, Minister, Mr Buysrogge has adequately outlined the problem. However, I would like to make a point. I don't think the port of Antwerp is technically a cheese with holes at the moment. Customs will continue to work and security in the port of Antwerp will be guaranteed. There is a problem. There are delays. Mr Minister, there is a word in Antwerp that we do not like to hear, and that is the word'slow'. We're allergic to that word. The port companies are rightly concerned about possible delays resulting from this failure. My questions are in line with those of Mr Buysrogge. What's the cause of the breakdown? It would have to do with water seeping. How is that possible? Will we be faced with this in the future? Does that have anything to do with the location of the scan? What will we do to avoid the same mistakes being repeated in the future? What will we do to avoid the delay that we may be experiencing at the moment in the very near future?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic098x.u58	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on 19 January the underground spaces of the double-scan tunnel in Antwerp were flooded, causing damage to the detector lines. An initial external expertise shows that an external cause is at the root of this injury. At the moment, the expertise is running to get further and more specific conclusions on this issue, so that it can be determined what the cause of the water pollution has been. In consultation with the scanner manufacturer, a solution is sought to restart the scanner in a sustainable way as soon as possible. The exact cost of repair can only be determined when all components of the scanner have been tested. Only then can it be established which parts are eligible for re-use and which parts are permanently lost and therefore need to be replaced. Due to the failure of the double scanning tunnel, the control capacity immediately after the facts decreased by about half. The following measures were taken to maintain the number of checks as quickly as possible and as far as possible. First, the emergency procedure was set up and the selections were........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ Secondly, the large mobile scanner and the so-called backscatter are used for the controls that effectively require scanning. The containers with the selections "scan only' presented at the border inspection post Linkeroever are referred to the fixed scanning on Right Bank. With regard to the damage assessment, where a scan image is considered to be non-compliant or suspicious, the cargo concerned shall be referred to the verification service. A single finding may relate to several infringements of both a fiscal and non-tax nature. In addition, the use of scanners has had a not to be underestimated dissuasive effect on potential fraudsters and terrorists. Consequently, a loss estimate based solely on lost tax revenue, which I do not have at the moment, would not give a real picture of the damage actually suffered.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic098x.u59	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. A malfunction of a device can always occur. Customs must think carefully about how to prevent such risks in the future. I understand from your answer that a little more craftsmanship is now being done, that more classical work is being done than contemporary techniques allow. That's a necessary evil. It is important that proper controls are carried out at the moment. Good maintenance is important for any equipment. If we somehow save on maintenance, we deceive ourselves in the long term. I therefore call for a proper maintenance policy to be developed. You did not quite answer my question on the strategic vision of customs. I understand that it is particularly important to see how the problem can be solved in the short term. However, it is also important to look further in the longer term at how the scanning capacity can be used as optimally as possible in the port and beyond.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic098x.u60	Minister, your administration is, of course, in contact with the manufacturer of the scanning equipment. Did the manufacturer let you know when the equipment will be repaired? That is what is being speculated about in the specialist press.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic098x.u61	Mr President, Minister, it is not about the short-term use of hotel services, but a little bit. Not that this is a regular frequency of your servant, but I believe that any uncertainty in all areas should be eliminated, including in this committee. The provision of furnished accommodation in hotels, motels and establishments providing accommodation to paying guests is subject to VAT. This is a decision of the VAT administration in 1999. The rental of holiday accommodation is based on that decision, subject to VAT, when the guests are welcomed and this reception is insured for at least a large part of the day. In addition, at least one of the following services is to be provided, namely regular cleaning of the rooms, provision and replacement of linen and provision of breakfast in the rooms or in the establishment. However, in a judgment of 22 June 2012, the Court of Cassation ruled on the scope of the VAT exemption for rentals. The Court of Cassation finds that a company which essentially provides accommodation to its guests, accompanied by some additional services such as electricity, gas, cleaning up at the end of the rental and which uses a third company for the reception of guests, which hands over the key to the guests together with a check-in on which, inter alia, electricity consumption must be recorded, provides services of the same kind as hotel services. This service does not meet all the conditions laid down in this decision, but the Court of Cassation decides that it is subject to VAT. The discrepancy between the judgment of the Court of Cassation and the position of the VAT administration leads to some legal uncertainty in the sector. Do you agree with me, Minister, that this situation of legal uncertainty must be brought to an end? Does the VAT administration maintain its current position or does it adopt the view of the Court of Cassation? If the VAT administration supports the view of the Court of Cassation, will the abovementioned decision be formally withdrawn by means of a publication on Fisconetplus?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic098x.u62	Mr President, the provision of accommodation in hotels or in sectors with similar functions is excluded from the VAT exemption for the rental of immovable property in accordance with the VAT Directive. These provisions have been transposed into Belgian law. In accordance with the case law of the European Court of Justice, the expression "sectors with similar functions' should be interpreted broadly. According to the Court, the purpose of that provision is to ensure that the temporary provision of accommodation in a way similar to the way in which it is done in a hotel should be treated equally in the field of VAT. The distinction between a taxable service in respect of the provision of furnished accommodation, on the one hand, and an exempt rental, on the other, is therefore a matter of fact. European case-law also recognises that Member States should introduce the criteria which they consider appropriate to distinguish between a taxed provision of accommodation and an exempt rental. In that sense, the administrative comments contain a number of minimum criteria, which my administration believes are necessary in order to speak of a sector that provides services, similar to the way in which this is done in a hotel business and which is therefore, in principle, subject to VAT. In the case to which you refer, the Court of Cassation referred the file to the Brussels appeal court, which has not yet delivered its opinion. It is therefore premature to draw final conclusions at this stage. Therefore, the administrative position remains unchanged for the time being.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic098x.u63	Thank you for your clear answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic098x.u64	Debates of the European Parliament 2370 by Mrs Demir has been converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic098x.u65	Mr President, Minister, last week Dexia announced his 2014 annual result. When we get Dexia's annual result, of course, we are not really happy to read it. When we read it, there is usually little positive news to report. There is uncertainty about the implementation of the business plan. I have every respect for the work that Karel De Boeck has done at Dexia and what he has done there. After all, it is not the most obvious job. It is not usually the job that will be received on applause. So I have every respect for his work. However, I do have a number of problems with one of his statements. After all, he states that Dexia is no longer a fire-breathing dragon. Dexia is just a lighter. That is a very strange reaction from Mr De Boeck. Dexia remains the millstone around our necks when we look at Dexia's extensive portfolio of swap positions and swap contracts. For these swaps, more and more collateral needs to be posted, which has also increased the balance sheet by a further EUR 24 billion. We are discussing a tax shift of EUR 2 billion or EUR 5 billion. At Dexia, we are talking about an increase in the balance sheet of just as much as EUR 24 billion, which is of a different order of magnitude. There are a number of other problems. The balance sheet structure still has a number of structural imbalances and still has considerable difficulties in correcting these imbalances since the beginning of dismantling. There are also a number of problems with certain regulatory ratios on the duration of decommissioning. It is not certain that they will be respected. The business plan is, of course, very sensitive to the macroeconomic environment and the state of interest rates, to mention the least problem in this respect. We must also remember that, if the financing capacity on the markets were to decrease, Dexia would have to go back to more expensive sources of financing, with all the consequences for profitability. That's why I have a few questions for you. Firstly, what adjustments has Dexia made to its business plan on the basis of the above-mentioned results and current market conditions? Can the bank maintain the business plan approved on 9 October 2014 on the Board of Directors? When will those responsible present the plan to Parliament? That is a more general question, which is also addressed to the chairman of the committee. In the past we have had a very regular update of the state of the art at Dexia. It would not be bad if this were done again here in Parliament. After all, it is a very large and extensive dossier. That's why I'm asking for that update. Dexia also assumes the maintenance of the banking licence of the various entities and the maintenance of the rating of Dexia Crédit Local, Dexia's sample. Do you consider these assumptions realistic? In the meantime, the dependence on State guarantees has increased, partly thanks to the fact that the bank had to post more collateral. Funding through the European Central Bank has also increased. What is your assessment of the impact on the Belgian guarantee? The increase in State guaranteed funding is quite unexpected. It was expected that it would fail and Karel De Boeck had announced it as well. If we had a glass ball, we would of course have known it in advance. How do you see this dependency evolving in the short and medium term, as far as it is possible to predict it in the current low interest rates situation? Of course, a Grexit can also have an influence on Dexia's further settlement. For now, there doesn't seem to be any Grexit. To what extent has Dexia already taken account of such a scenario and what are the main consequences? Given your knowledge of that file, I do not need to remind you that Dexia was not by chance the bank with a great deal of Greek government paper. That position has been very much reduced in recent years, including by Karel De Boeck's policy, but it's still not nothing. The balance sheet has increased to EUR 247 billion, which is more than KBC's balance sheet. If we have to take that fully into account with the State, then you know where we stand: that is a real danger. What does Dexia plan to do to reduce that balance sheet, in line with the company's objective of total extinction?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic098x.u66	Mr President, Mr Dedecker, I will answer four questions in order. Your first question concerns the adjustments and the business plan of 9 October. Dexia's orderly decommissioning plan was approved by the European Commission at the end of December 2012, as you know. Every six months, that plan will be updated on the basis of renewed hypotheses, validated by Dexia's current management committee. The next revision will be carried out on the basis of data of 31 December 2014 and will be approved by the Management Committee on 21 March 2015. In 2015, the revised business plan took into account lower interest rates and also took into account regulatory changes, including the final text of the well-known Basel CRD IV 3, the introduction of IFRS 13 standard and the impact of using an OIS curve for the valuation of OTC derivatives. The favourable evolution of the group's financing structure over the past year was also taken into account, as a result of an increase in market financing at a lower cost and at longer durations than envisaged in the current business plan. This last review of the business plan led to adjustments to the original plan validated by the European Commission, but these do not question the path of the ordered resolution plan. This remains a basic condition for Dexia's external auditors. The preparation of the plan was audited by a trustee, who prepares a report every six months for the European Commission. Up to now Dexia has complied with almost 100 per cent of the controlled activities. Dexia's recurrent results follow the plan and are even slightly ahead. Then I come to your second question. Dexia assumes the maintenance of the banking licence of the various entities and the maintenance of Dexia Crédit Local's credit rating. The question is whether I consider that realistic. These assumptions constitute the basic condition for the continuity of operations under orderly dismantling. Maintaining local banking licences is essential to maintain access to central bank finance from central banks on the basis of approved paper security. To date, these fundamental hypotheses were not questioned by the whole model. Then I come to your third question, on the increase in dependence on the State guarantee and on financing through the European Central Bank. The State guarantee is not rising but falling, after a demanding period in terms of liquidity, in which no less than EUR 40 billion had to be repaid or deported as collateral. These amounts were offset by a contraction of assets, which amounted to around EUR 800 million per month, by the growth of repo activities and by the growth of funds collected with the State guarantees. Funding through the ECB, the European Central Bank, is also decreasing. Instead of around €50 billion in 2012, it was almost constant at €33.5 billion in 2014. By the end of February 2015, these will fall from the just mentioned 33,5 billion to 27.5 billion eruo and by the end of November this year to EUR 21.5 billion. The Eurosystem wants to be repaid as a matter of priority. In other words, this will not significantly reduce the financing of the State guarantees until the EUR 21,5 billion has been repaid. As regards the Grexit or the Greek situation, Dexia no longer has direct exposure to the Greek State. Dexia has indirect exposures of a total amount of EUR 180 million, consisting of two Greek project financing and two exposures to Greek local authorities.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic098x.u67	Thank you, Minister, for your comprehensive answer. I note that the business plan has been updated and approved by the end of this month. Mr President, that seems to me an ideal opportunity to discuss this again in this committee with Mr De Boeck, if that is all right with you. I think that's an ideal opportunity. I may have misread the increase in the state guarantee. It may not be an increase, but this is a little higher than Mr De Boeck's original predictions. I am also pleased that the trustee is satisfied. In the past, it was different. I remember lengthy sessions in the Dexia Committee on that trustee's report. I am pleased that it seems to be somewhat different now.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic098x.u68	Mr President, Minister, this may sound a bit technical or even technical, but I know these SSL situations a little bit from my previous life. This is the encryption standard used by many websites. If you have https at the top of your browser, you know it is secure and that is the SSL. This is used for the security of a number of websites, including online purchases and online banking. It is intended that the information should remain confidential and not be readable by third parties. That information should also and above all not be changed by third parties when communicating with the bank, otherwise it would be very pleasant. This SSL security doesn't seem to be quite right in many of our financial institutions, according to a little investigation by securityblogger Yeri Tiete. He found that the SSL was poorly implemented at a number of banks. One can apparently do this via a number of online tests that show which version it is about and which weaknesses the system still contains. Apparently, a number of weaknesses were found in a number of banks. In the meantime, a number of banks have made the necessary changes and put security in order through their investigation. A number of others have not yet done so, and that appears to be a very worrying message. After all, many banks hesitate to update the SSL software because they want to ensure that computers that are still running on old software remain compatible. Hence some concern and the following questions. Minister, what measures and those responsible for the security of Internet banking are the banks imposed by the regulators? Is there any policy in this area in the FSMA? Secondly, to what extent does those supervisors take into account the SSL encryption and the dangers that a lack of security could entail? Do they have techs? Finally, is this controlled at all, except by a security blogger?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic098x.u69	Mr President, Mr Dedecker, the first question concerns the measures and responsibilities for the security of Internet banking imposed on banks by the supervisors. The prudential expectations of internet banking are set out in the circular on financial services via the Internet of 7 April 2009. On 19 December 2014, EBA, the European Banking Authority, also published guidelines on the security of internet payments. This requires the banks, among other things, to closely monitor internet security through their IT infrastructure and internet services, to ensure a careful follow-up of the published security gaps, to use strong authentication solutions adapted to the nature and risks of the internet services provided, to use strong and generally recognised encryption techniques................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Secondly, you asked to what extent SSL encryption is being taken into account by the supervisors and the risks associated with its lack of security. The supervisor shall pay attention to the effectiveness of the global package of internet banking security measures that explores a wide range of security aspects and performance parameters, including SSL security, and their interplay. The aim is to strike a balance between the high level of safety required and user-friendliness. How are the measures monitored? The internet security of the bank and the internet banking sector have been important concerns for prudential supervision since 2002. In addition, the regulator actively participates in the internet banking security working group set up at Febelfin in 2007 to monitor the attacks against Internet banking in Belgium as closely as possible and to monitor the safety of the Belgian e-bank system as quickly as possible in the light of identified vulnerabilities and/or new attack techniques. In the framework of this working group there is also good operational cooperation with the Federal Computer Crime Unit. The circular financial services via the Internet of 7 April 2009 obliges banks to inform the prudential supervisor about risky accidents without delay, whereby third parties effectively manage to circumvent the security of internet services or their own IT structure via the Internet. The supervisor collects and analyses this data and makes it available to Febelfin, which publishes quarterly sector-wide figures on the extent of e-banking fraud in Belgium. It should also be noted that e-banking frauds in Belgium are among the lowest internationally and have fallen significantly back even in 2014, as shown by Table 9 of the annual report of the National Bank of Belgium attached to the written reply, Mr Dedecker. You will see that the financial loss resulting from e-banking fraud for 2013 amounted to just over EUR 5 million, but in 2014 it fell to just under EUR 1 million.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic098x.u70	Thank you, Minister, for your comprehensive reply. We can be satisfied that e-banking fraud is quite low and has even been reduced. This may also be due to a number of campaigns launched at Febelfin to make people aware of the dangers of phishing. That is a form of fraud in which you are called up and pretending to be from the bank and asking for your data, just to give this example. I assume that these cases are also included in the figures. However, I noticed the following. You refer to a 2009 circular requiring banks to follow the security issues. It seems obvious to me that, when reporting problems with old versions of software with leaks, they are updated. Regular research by independent experts is also discussed. How regular was that? This is about somewhat older problems. I wonder if that was enough. Is the regular examination by the experts followed and controlled by the supervisor? We need to consider whether anything can be done about follow-up, because something has indeed gone wrong.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic098x.u71	I suggest we suspend our work for five minutes.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic098x.u72	Mr Minister, following the oral questions in plenary on 5 February, including Mr Laaouej and Mr Gilkinet, on a possible tax amnesty, it was said that there was a BBI directive aimed at centralising all spontaneous reports of late returns to the BBI, which has drawn up internal directives on this subject for the sake of a uniform interpretation throughout the territory. You have said that we must pay attention to the practice of shopping, the search for the most advantageous valuation, and that it is important that internal directives are drawn up, which are uniform throughout the territory. It would not be an extension of a one-off release declaration, but rather the application of the current legislation. Parliament asked for this directive in plenary. I am asking this question here because I believe that this should also be addressed in our committee. My question is therefore to know the content of the circular. It has now been distributed. The Minister is at his disposal. Mr Philipsen of the BBI is also present. This was also discussed at the Conference of Presidents. I believe that Parliament is playing an open role in these matters. As President, I give the opportunity to the various groups to speak on this issue, so that there is clarity about it. The debate will not be concluded today. That's not the point. It is a question of transparency. The Minister and the BBI are available, if there are specific questions. I do not know if the Minister can explain this. After that, everyone will have the opportunity to speak.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic098x.u73	Mr. President, if you'll excuse me, I may have missed an episode. I think there is a lot of interest in this subject. I note that the Open Vld is not there, perhaps it is a bit of a shame.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic098x.u74	The discussion will not be closed. We will be able to resume the debate in a future committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic098x.u75	That said, if the minister answers the questions, I have no concern about that. I am eager to have a debate on this subject. And since this is important, I wonder why it was not planned in a broader way.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic098x.u76	I asked the minister for the circular. We have it. The debate is not closed. However, since Parliament is criticized in the press for its lack of clarity, I, as chairman of this committee, want to give this debate all the clarity it can. Ministers are present. You have the circular. Questions can be asked in this regard. And on Friday we will be able to reopen the discussion if certain groups so request.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic098x.u77	I fully agree with you. Clarity can be found in an organized debate where everyone is present and has the opportunity to hear the minister's answers. So why are we doing this now, as part of the oral questions?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic098x.u78	This morning we talked about it in the Conference of Presidents. I had signals from different groups that needed to be discussed. The Rules of the House are there, but as Speaker, I have the freedom to interpret it according to political circumstances. And I don't want to get out of this meeting without the groups having the opportunity to give their opinions on the subject. If we do not do this, we will soon see comments that Parliament is not playing the game of transparency.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic098x.u79	So transparency is not the Rules of Procedure! All right.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic098x.u80	A prominent leader of the Socialist Group, Mr Tobback, said: "Ik lees het Rule na het debate".
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic098x.u81	I would suggest that we take note of the questions and concerns and that we respond to them at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic098x.u82	We can, but first let's see which of the theories are precise. Who's asking for the floor about the BBI's instructions? We'll see what procedure we follow later. I note Mr Laaouej, Mr Gilkinet and Mr Vanvelthoven.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic098x.u83	Mr President, if I understand correctly, rather than making an introductory statement, the minister wishes to collect the questions that we would have to ask.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic098x.u84	You have the text. Everyone knows how to read.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic098x.u85	Minister, thank you for finally having the opportunity to read this document. It was not simple, we asked in plenary, but there seemed to be reluctance. We have it now, we can rejoice. On the form, is it an instruction or a circular? It's not the same thing. An instruction is not necessarily prescriptive and a circular is generally prescriptive. In other words, what is the status of this text, which is not signed? In general, an instruction is signed by a general official and a circular is signed by a general official or by the minister himself. I therefore believe that it would not be wrong for us to have the text in its form, as notified to the agents concerned. What is the scope of this instruction or circular? Is it addressed to the ISI only or to other services, such as the Business and Income Tax Administration, i.e. the regular control services? The third point is more fundamental and I reserve the possibility of asking more specific and technical questions. I learned taxation in an academic way and I was always told that the basis of taxation was the Constitution. This does not date from today, which explains parliamentarism to a large extent: if one takes a little interest in the history of England, one knows that at some point the English aristocrats wanted to be able to tell the King that they wanted to finance his wars but that they needed a parliament to vote taxes and to have the right to tell him what they wanted him to do with them. It's not a new case. The Constitution in Belgium merely repeats this simple idea: tax laws are passed by parliament. Similarly, tax reductions, exemptions, exemptions and derogations are also voted on by Parliament. This is what we generally do with the Income Tax Code every time we change it, and that's what some governments have also done with single release declarations. When regularization operations took place, laws established legal frameworks. This has been discussed in full transparency in Parliament and not in the shadows, in any administrative department. It is not the role of the administration - and God knows if its role is important - to set tax standards. This prerogative belongs to the parliament, which votes the tax laws. What do we see? We have a system that does not correspond to what the law provides in terms of tax increases. Indeed, in the instruction given to us, we are explained with two main cases – whether or not there is an agreement from the taxpayer who has entered a spontaneous declaration on the tax guidelines, and I repeat the terms used – whether we establish and claim the tax evaded. All right. Secondly, there is a question of an increase which, in some cases, will be 20% – I am talking about professional income – or 50% depending on whether or not the taxpayer has expressed its agreement on the proposed tax guidelines. I try to find the correspondence of these tax increases in the CIR and its implementing orders. I can't find her. I read in section 444 of the IRC that where there is an intention to evade tax, tax increases must be applied. Secondly, when I look at the enforcement order in section 226, I see that, for the first offence, it is 50%, that for the second, it is 100% and that for the third and subsequent offence, it is 200%. In the event of tax evasion. You will answer: "When, in one case, the rate of 20% is retained, it is probably because there was no tax evasion. That is why we do not sanction 50%." The problem is that this instruction provides for 20% increase. I quote: "when the rectification concerns one of the previous seven years". We will remember that this special time limit can only be opened in cases of tax evasion. This means that we are in a case of fraud, even if there is a spontaneous declaration and a taxpayer's agreement on the guidelines. Therefore, I do not understand why, in this case, we are talking about 20%, not 50%. If the taxpayer does not agree, 50% of the increase is called an increase. This is indeed what is provided for in the hypothesis of a first infringement. But who says there's no second or third offence? What does this 50% increase mean? Is this universal in scope? Does this mean resuming the situation of the taxpayer – who can be regularized over the last seven years – and applying 50% to the taxpayer without taking into account perhaps the second, third or fourth offence? It seems to me, logically, that if we correct it over several years, each year that succeeds the other is a new offence. In other words, this is not a single offence but repeated offences. We are therefore in graduation, on the scale provided for in the implementing order of the CIR, which provides for this graduation from 50 to 200 %. It therefore seems to me that there is a fundamental vice. What is proposed here does not seem to correspond to what the law and its implementing orders provide. So my question is: Are we facing an instruction or a circular that respects the law? If she doesn't respect the law, you have a double problem. The first is the failure to respect Parliament's prerogatives. In fact, a circular that is not legal does not correspond to the constitutional requirement. That's the first element. The second is obviously a problem of justice and tax fairness. How can this be reconciled with people who are caught in an ordinary rectification without spontaneous declaration and who will be subjected to the application of the law in its strictness, not more than its rigour but in all its rigour? Fiscal injustice also because people pay their taxes in a civic way and respect all their obligations in a virtuous manner. This is the case for most of our citizens, for many of them taxpayers, who get a professional discount without any possibility of not reporting their income. And for those who do not have a professional discount, the vast majority of taxpayers also fulfill their obligations. You also have a problem with fairness and tax justice. That is the essence of my questions. It goes without saying that I want to understand, line by line, this instruction, which is short but dense and of which we do not see too much whether we are talking about prescribed capital or not, things that are outside the ordinary time limits of taxation. Nor is it clear what is happening with regard to the origin of the funds, in other words, what happens when these undeclared revenues are linked to more serious offences, more serious offences, which may eventually fall within the scope of the Law on Money Laundering, which is not much discussed here. It will be recalled that the Law on Money Laundering has been expanded to have a broader understanding of the phenomenon of serious fraud. I would therefore like to have some clarification on the fundamentals, after which I reserve the possibility of going back to more concrete elements. In conclusion, I would like to point out that, as far as VAT is concerned, we are not even talking about taxpayers here. We're talking about owers. Taxpayers, Minister, are never just tax collectors. That is why sanctions are heavy on them. Indeed, VAT is not the tax they have to bear. They're just collecting it on behalf of the state. Those who support it are the final consumers. In the present case, while the whole VAT scheme is designed to ensure that taxable persons comply with their obligations as tax collectors, again there is provision for a discount rate. My fundamental incomprehension is the lack of correspondence between this and the law and, beyond the law, the Constitution.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic098x.u86	Mr President, thank you for organizing this debate. For a few weeks now, we have been trying to obtain clarity on the subject. As I said at 2:00 p.m., I was shocked to see that Parliament, the elected officials responsible for monitoring the executive's action, particularly in the area of taxation, did not have this document at this confidential point, whereas tax lawyers clearly have it. In my view, this is abnormal, unacceptable in terms of transparency and control capacity. My group has always challenged the principle of too much tax amnesty for fraudsters, without the capacity for the judiciary to prosecute those who regulate at a later date, depending on the nature of the initial fraud. Indeed, there is progress: you gave us this document at 2:00 p.m., which we can really question as to form. I am hardly used to this type of document, but it is not signed, it is not addressed, it is regularly referred to the ISI, which is not the only taxing authority. What if a case leads to the General Administration of Taxation? Before we come to specific questions, we remain on the whole on the impression, usual since the establishment of this government, of double standards. To analyse the precision of the mechanics used to combat social fraud – of course, no more excusable than tax fraud – and the imprecise side, difficult to interpret tax fraud, to consider the budgetary importance of this tax fraud, I wonder: are these really usual documents, those that usually circulate within your administration? Beyond the fact that the tax is determined by law, is it the usual way to try to obtain, as you would say in plenary, uniform treatment of late adjustments? What is the objective pursued? The law made it clear that the last regularization, given the possible termination date for taxpayers, no longer had legal capacity by definition. Therefore, if the law has completed its effects, why should it be replaced by an instruction that has not been submitted to Parliament in advance? My questions clearly concern officials of the Special Tax Inspectorate (SI). What about the files that would arrive in another way? Are they systematically reoriented to ISI? What is the ability and willingness to identify the origin of the funds? For me, this is the crux of the problem of regularisation, especially with the limitation periods that exist. Is it a matter, as we have too often seen, of regularizing only the capital that comes from the original funds or is there a willingness to systematically identify where the funds come from? The rates to be applied are not the same if they are derived from work, inheritance or depending on the rank concerned. Is there a future capacity to prosecute the taxpayers concerned, beyond tax evasion and in connection with money laundering legislation? Why are the proposed rates lower than the regularization law? I wonder both about the form and the substance of the document. I have an impression of amateurism and double standards. Have many applications been submitted? The previous regularization was supposed to be the last. Since when is the instruction valid? We wrote with our group to the Court of Auditors to try to obtain this document before receiving it via the minister. What about an ex post audit by the Court of Auditors on the proper collection of tax in this context? There are too many cases in which it is felt that we are acting too lightly towards those who have the means to have money abroad and the will to hide it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic098x.u87	I would like to thank you, Minister, for finally getting something from us and for having the opportunity to discuss it for a moment. I am slightly surprised because we had already asked for the document in plenary and even had to put it to the vote in order to obtain it. However, you opposed it. I'm glad you saw the light. I suspect that the riot about care has something to do with that and that it is a small exercise to restore balance. I have some questions and comments, Minister. Something has already been said about the shape. To be honest, I cannot imagine that this is the document communicated to the various administrations that have to work with it. I assume that this is not the way in which instructions are sent around, on a blank A4 piece of paper, with nothing else attached. That is why I formally ask you: is this the document that was sent around or is it an overwritten version or a summary of it? Ready and clear, is this the document that was sent out from the main administration? I will not go into more detail about the fact that it has taken so long. We are glad that we have something in our hands today. My fellow Members have already said it, and the President has just said it. Instructions are there to make the law, which must be applied by different administrations, ready and clear to everyone. There are no misunderstandings like that. However, it must be an application of the legislation. That's obvious. An instruction cannot go against the law. If I analyse the legislation that is in force today, I have the clear impression that this instruction goes against it. I refer to the law of 31 December 2003, the EBA Act, on the one-off release declaration. Article 9 makes it clear what happens when it is not used. "In the case of non-declaration of amounts, capital or movable value relating to amounts, capital or movable value referred to in Article 2, for which the taxable person was able to avail himself of the option provided for in this Act but failed to do so, the tax increase shall be fixed at at least 100 % from 1 January 2005.' That article was declared inapplicable once again and subsequently incorporated under the previous government in the programme law of late 2005, which introduced tax regularisation. However, in that law there is a clear end date of the Tax Regulatory Act: 31 December 2013. That's over now. In my reading, we are now returning to the article that I have come to quote. That is the legal framework today. Those who have not made use of the possibilities of tax regularisation offered by the Chamber are now faced with a tax increase of 100 %. I read in the instructions that they are not met. Depending on the income, it is about 20% when it comes to occupational income and to other income 50%. That's my lecture. I'd like you to clarify that. I assume you're looking at that differently. If my reading is correct, then the instruction is in any case against the current legal provisions. In other words, it is a tax regularisation which has not been approved in the Chamber but in the field with taxpayers who have cheated and agreed with tax lawyers. Another element I would like to mention is the statute of limitations. I remember you saying here in Parliament that, contrary to what was the case at the last regularisation, tax-depleting capital is not regularised. We then read in De Standaard the statement by Karel Anthonissen that it will. That was subsequently nuanced from the BBI. However, when I read the instruction, I can only read that anything that is older than seven years is considered to be a fiscal statute of limitations. When I read the text of tax lawyers who have already published the instruction we have not yet heard, but have published it, they are also talking about a seven-year limitation period. I have to assume, then, that this is a statute of limitations for crimes more than seven years ago. I would have liked to have heard from you about this too, Minister. Should I indeed read the instruction in such a way that all unlisted capitals over seven years old are tax-barred?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic098x.u88	The committee members have had the opportunity to express their opinion. The accusations that the government or the BBI is in illegality, I think, are so important that we should bring that up here tonight. We have the Minister and the Director-General of the BBI here with us, because I think that when people say in the press that Parliament is being passed, that it deserves an answer here in our committee. I am therefore happy to give the floor to the Minister or, if necessary, to Mr Philipsen of the BBI.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic098x.u89	Mr President, I will try to answer the various questions in order. First of all, this isn't a piece of paper. This is an official instruction signed by me on the date of 29 January 2015. She bears the reference SB/014487. You asked me if it was a signed instruction. It is indeed signed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic098x.u90	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic098x.u91	Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic098x.u92	They've come here to clarify things. I believe that we should give them the opportunity to respond openly and clearly. This is not about formal aspects, it is about the substance of the matter. Carry on, Mr Philipsen.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic098x.u93	Secondly, the version before you contains exactly the same lines as those contained in the official internal instruction. That internal instruction itself says the word, although apparently the word "confidence" is very stretchable nowadays "confidence" is indeed intended for the internal functioning of the tax administrations. On the perimeter, an agreement has been made between the Fiscality and the Special Tax Inspectorate that such files have already been criticized in the press, including by top lawyers such as Michel Maus, in order to avoid tax shopping between Arlon, Maaseik and I know where they are concentrated. We in the Special Tax Inspectorate have coordinated for the whole country. In practical terms, all the files that are now submitted to any office of the Taxation Office are delivered to the central administration of the Fiscality via a monthly state. She delivers them to the chief executive of the Special Tax Inspectorate, and then we distribute those files on our five regional boards. Very important: coordination and treatment take place only within the ISI, precisely to avoid this tax shopping. It is important to mention that this is an instruction as opposed to a registration or a circular. That is indeed of an internal nature, an instruction. In addition, in recent months I have always read that there was actually a bumblebee with the tax lawyers. They felt that, depending on the place where they were offered, they could be subject to a different rate. I'd like to explicitly lie to you today about what's on De Morgen's front page. This internal instruction has never been in the hands of any tax lawyer. What's happening, of course? Tax lawyers often apply anonymously in the first instance and over time in the name of a specific taxable client to submit a case. In the light of the circumstances, on the basis of the parameters of that case, that lawyer is told what the applicable rate is and what price he has to pay. I do not read anywhere in this instruction that a criminal warrant is given here. That is not the intention at all. This is an internal instruction from the BBI, intended for the five regional directors of the BBI, specifically those of Ghent, Antwerp, Brussels, Namur and the new fifth national director. There's still an inexcusable detail. This internal instruction, under my signature, was co-ordinated by me and prepared by me in consultation with and with the agreement of the five regional directors. I have been working with the five ISI Regional Directors and they have all agreed to this instruction. Of course, there is always the question of whether an instruction should be the Bible or a telephone book, by analogy with some laws and previous circulars, or should it be more something that gives our officials clear guidelines? We opt for clear guidelines for our employees. By the way, very important, on that first page is very clearly the underlying condition. In other words, this is not a one-off, two-off or three-time liberating declaration; it is about the fact that a taxable person reports to the tax authority and says that he has an income for the oldest year of the non-expired period that he did not declare at the time. At that time, as tax officials, we are obliged to carry out the valuation at the appropriate and correct rate. It goes without saying that all these matters will be examined in the light of history and the facts raised by the Special Tax Inspectorate. We're investigating every file. They also asked about how many files they are currently dealing with. Since the publication of this instruction, internally and for some reason also in the press, the bulk of it involves four hundred files, not all of which have been dealt with yet, far from it. They are now divided among the five regional boards to be treated. We should not underestimate the tax controllers, especially those of the Special Tax Inspectorate. When we find that there is something not kosher with a file on money laundering, we are obliged to report it to Jean-Claude Delepière's money laundering cell on the basis of the last update to the 1993 Law. This should not be repeated in any document based on the central administration. It is contained in separate manuals, instructions and circulars. Our officials are aware that the 1993 law requires them to report to the money cell when there is a suspicion of an underlying money laundering activity. There were also questions about tariffs and sanctions. We assess case by case, taking into account the history of the taxable person concerned and the size. I stress that we value. We don't regularize. We go back to the oldest year of the non-determinated period. I think that's the 2009 tax year, revenue 2008. We apply the normal rates. If we find that consultation with the public prosecutor is necessary, una via, I am strongly in favour of it, then this is done explicitly. It may also happen that the taxpayer himself asks for consultation, or that the lawyer himself directs a friendly settlement. Then it always goes through the relevant prosecutor. Then una is made through contact, as laid down in the law, between the regional director of the BBI and the relevant prosecutor. Also important, this is about spontaneous communications from taxpayers themselves. Fortunately, not all of our files at the BBI are backed up by spontaneous communications from the taxpayer. There are many other dossiers, but we have noticed at a certain point that there was a need for clear, strict lines for dealing with such dossiers. The people on the ground are faced with reality. Is it then annoying to note that some people, the EBA, have not applied, the reality is that they spontaneously report unpaid income? We are then obliged to carry out an assessment with the necessary nuance, as is expressly stated in that brief instruction. That's deliberate. There's no point in writing too much. The instruction was prepared in consultation and agreement with the regional directors. There were also questions about the possible differentiation of the rates of sanctions and the tax increases. There we have been inspired by the principle of progressiveness, depending on the nature and seriousness of the offence. I believe that this is a very important principle, in particular the principle of proportionality. I may be mistaken, but in the standards of hierarchy, proportionality is even above the law in that respect and therefore above a royal decree. Another reality facing us in recent years is that many judges report that, precisely in view of proportionality, they are reducing fines and tax increases themselves, because they are administrative sanctions of a criminal nature. Once again, essential for us is the una-via consultation throughout the story. That is explained with so many words in the internal instruction, signed and dated.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic098x.u94	I've given everyone a chance to express their opinion. I think we have the BBI's answer. I do not know if the Minister would like to add anything else. At the present stage of the discussion, everyone has had the opportunity to express their opinion. Anyone who thinks that further discussion or questions are needed should interpeal or ask questions. I have had the openness, which is not so regulational, to give everyone the opportunity to express their opinion. I'm giving the BBI and the Secretary of State a chance to respond to this. I'm sticking my neck out for transparency. I don't want the press to say that we want to cover pots and commit illegal acts. Now we've had our answer. Everyone has their truth. In the next few weeks, we will discuss it in greater depth through parliamentary procedures. I wish to close the debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic098x.u95	For the sake of clarity and to remove insinuations about the authenticity of the text, which I honestly do not understand, the text will be dated and communicated with all the bells and bells. Then your mind will be reassured that what you have just received is also the real text.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic098x.u96	The secretary of the committee informs me that the text is now being copied. So it will be distributed soon. A number of questions remain on the agenda. Let's finish the point now.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic098x.u97	Mr President, let us be clear! We can see the exercise that takes us. We are fortunate to have Mr Philipsen, the head of the Special Tax Inspectorate, with us, who gives us explanations. It's something very precious. Of course, we are not going to start polemicing here. It's not about that. It is a matter of understanding and not of trying the Special Inspectorate of Taxes (SI). We are among those who have asked that the ISI be strengthened and we ask that it be strengthened even more, given all that falls on it (HSBC, etc.).). It is a matter of going to the bottom of things to understand, or even to ensure that this happens as best as possible. In this regard, I had some specific questions. How does the law and enforcement orders justify retaining rates of increase that are not those reflected in the enforcement order that applies the law? I have no answer to that, except for an anticipation that judges would recognize the right to reduce sanctions because they would be criminal. Be careful! What is being asked of the tax administration is not to anticipate what a judge would do because he believes that the law has been applied in all its severity. What the administration is being asked to do is to enforce the law. That is how our institutions work. I don't have an answer. This is the heart of the problem. It is important to know whether this instruction, this circular, is in all respects in conformity with the law. I repeat that I do not judge the intentions of the Special Inspectorate of Taxes, which exercises a rather difficult profession like this. I simply play my role as a parliamentarian who considers that when there are exemptions or exemptions from taxation, it is up to Parliament to vote on them. As prestigious as it is important, it is not the responsibility of this institution. I'm not saying anything else! There I do not have a technical answer to my questions, which are obviously so political. I don't disagree. Mr President, I am still hungry! It would have been useful to be able to extend the discussion. I do not have my appeasement and I repeat that apart from that, some people make the choice to pay their taxes and will pay the full fee. Others do not make unsolicited statements and will have penalties as provided by law. Basically, on the basis of the penalty rate, it cannot be simpler than the enforcement order. There's a painting with a ladder. In case of fraud, three rates are possible depending on the repetitive nature: first offence, second offence, third offence, 50-200%. Here, the 200% no longer appears. As if this order, in the end, no longer existed. We are in the rule of law. That is the heart of the problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic098x.u98	If you have any additional questions, you can still ask them or interact with them. I think the Minister is prepared to answer that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic098x.u99	The last word is for Parliament. You're turning things around.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic098x.u100	The last word is mine, because I asked the question. Actually, it wasn't a question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic098x.u101	Most of the time, we agree. I have no problem with the fact that Mr Vanvelthoven and Mr Gilkinet are also giving their reflections on what has just been said.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic098x.u102	It is about Mr Laaouej. I thought only he had asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic098x.u103	I would like to respond briefly, Mr Philipsen, Minister. I'm glad we're getting the official play. I do not understand why it is necessary to give it to Parliament. Making a copy goes much faster than making something else out of it. That'll be fixed in a minute, that's okay. Then there's proportionality. I understand that you take the view that the principle of proportionality is above the law. I think that's weird. If the tax administration or the Minister of Finance, on the basis of judgments and judgments, finds that proportionality is always invoked by the courts because the law is too strict, give us the signal that we will amend the law if necessary. That seems to me to be the right course of action. We have decided something else here in Parliament. The administration then says that it does not take that into account and that it finds it proportionately better to do it in a different way. I don't think that's right. We in Parliament have decided that after two regularisations we have had enough opportunities. Everyone was warned enough: if you still come by with black money, with fraudulent money or whatever, it will be at least 100 %. That is what we have all decided here, but we are now derogating from it because the principle of proportionality in terms of administration seems to be more important than the law. I'm having trouble with that. As regards the limitation period, you confirm that revenue from more than seven years ago which has never been declared will be subject to a limitation period. In other words, they are exempt and regularized. Therefore, no fines or tax increases should be applied. So much for my reaction.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic098x.u104	Mr President, I believe that a more explicit communication from the minister from the outset might have avoided some misunderstandings. But we still have a capacity to monitor as parliamentarians. As soon as the tax regularisation law had ended its effects, it is particularly inquiring to learn that a directive allows people who have broken the law to regularize nevertheless at prices which are not clear. In any case, these people didn't declare any tax and, for me, it's fraud. Perhaps you have another point of view on the matter. I don't think so, because I have a lot of respect for the work of the ISI. This situation gives rise to this feeling of double standards, which is a political problem. This instruction must be read with other types of instructions, as you explained to us. If a taxpayer has already had problems reporting his or her income, he or she may be subject to higher penalties. The files, if suspect, are forwarded to the Financial Information Processing Unit (TIFU) for its work, which is essential in relation to the origin of the funds. Different questions remain. You spontaneously apply, depending on the judge's fear, rates below what the law provides. This seven-year period still allows for proper regularisation provided that sufficient time has been allowed to wait before returning these amounts to normal taxation. I also retain, in view of the importance of fiscal fraud at the budgetary level, questions about the ability to control controllers. That is why I ask that the Court of Auditors be able to carry out supervisory work, and I believe that the ISI would have no difficulty in this. Parliament could thus, through the Court's armed accounting arm, have all the assurances that the work has been done properly and that those who have defrauded and have the chance to be advised by tax lawyers, whom they pay dearly, are not treated preferentially compared to all taxpayers. We will continue to follow this issue carefully.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic098x.u105	This will enable us to close this question, you have also received copies with the original, so there has been no secrecy, only the strictment confidentile, that is all.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic098x.u106	Mr President, Minister, Belgium was condemned by the Court of Justice on the exemption for interest in regulated savings deposits, extended to interest in foreign deposits that meet similar requirements as laid down by the equivalent competent public authorities of the other Member States. In practice, most neighbouring countries have many variants of such savings deposits. Each EEA country, of course, has its own rules, but no country has savings accounts that have all the characteristics required for the Belgian savings deposits, in particular the conditions and arrangements for the withdrawal and inclusion of the currency, as well as the structure, level and method of calculating their remuneration. It is clear that the savings account must be expressed in euro. The other conditions are much less unambiguous. Apparently, local tax offices are unable to provide any conclusive information as to whether, for example, French livret A and B or certain Dutch savings accounts can be regarded as analogous to a Belgian regulated savings deposit without or with restrictive conditions. The circular of 12 June 2014 paraphrases the law so that taxpayers do not get much wiser out of it. Since, strictly speaking, the first EUR 1 880 interest in savings deposits does not constitute taxable income, should this interest not be reported in the return, even if it comes from analogue foreign savings accounts? Secondly, do you agree that in income tax the general rule is that the tax authority bears the burden of proof and therefore that the tax authority must prove that the interests do not come from analogue savings accounts established by the foreign competent public authorities? Thirdly, what service at the FPS Finance can determine whether or not a particular foreign savings account meets the tax exemption? Or should the taxpayer always apply for a ruling in order to have certainty in that regard? Finally, how do you intend to make this exemption work for analogue foreign savings deposits so that the application of this exemption no longer violates the free movement of services?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic098x.u107	Mr President, Mrs Wouters, the answer to the first question is in the affirmative, as it follows from the text of the law explicitly. In relation to the requirements relating to the currency in which the deposit is expressed, I can inform you that following the extension of the measure to the deposit liabilities received by credit institutions established in another Member State of the European Economic Area, it is appropriate to assess compliance with those requirements taking into account the currency which is legally applicable in that Member State in the context of the analogy provided for in that regard, for example the pound sterling in the United Kingdom. The fact that deposits opened in a currency other than the euro are taken into account was explicitly referred to by the legislator, as that provision provides for the modalities for the conversion into euro. So here too, there is quite a lot of clarity. Where a taxable person is entitled to a deduction, a refund or an exemption, such as in this case, or more generally a more favourable regime, the burden of proof shall be expressly borne by taxable persons. The situation should be assessed on a case-by-case basis according to the characteristics of the deposit in question. People with questions can always contact the central departments of the general administration of taxation. From now on, the income generated by both Belgian regulated deposits shall be treated identically as by analogue foreign deposits.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic098x.u108	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. On one point, I disagree with you. You say that when a taxable person is entitled to a deduction, a refund or an exemption, the burden of proof is placed on the taxable person. That is correct, but in this case the exemption from the EUR 1 880 is not provided for in the law. I refer to Article 21 of Subsection 2 of the WIB 92. It reads: "not as income from movable property and capital taxable income'. The taxable person does not therefore rely on an exemption or a deduction, since the law does not even regard them as a taxable income in this case. In my opinion, the burden of proof lies with the tax authorities. If one thinks that this is a professional income, one must prove it. I know that the tax authorities often think differently about this, but this is not in line with the pure interpretation of Article 21 of Subsection 2. I have a problem with that. You say that the central services can be contacted. Well, I hope they will be quick enough to answer whether or not this can be regarded as a regulated savings book. That is not always the case either. I hope that the tax authorities will check where the burden of proof lies and adjust their views on this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic098x.u109	Mr President, Minister, each financial year a company must allocate the result achieved. In the case of profits, it must use at least 5% of the net profit for the financial year for the establishment of a statutory reserve each year until such reserves amount to 10% of the share capital. Since a company can only allocate every euro of profits made once, that company's obligation to allocate that same euro of profits simultaneously to a separate liquidation reserve prevents. The fiscal ability to create a liquidation reserve therefore has a dissuasive effect on the provision of a large share capital. I do not think that this could be the intention of the new rules on winding-up Boni. The question therefore arises as to how we can find a solution for the creation of a legal reserve which can also be considered as a liquidation reserve for tax purposes. Mr President, I would like to ask you the following question. Does Article 184c of the WIB 92 allow to establish a liquidation reserve in the form of a legal reserve? If that is not possible under company law or tax law, what other solution can you offer to address this problem?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic098x.u110	Mr President, Mrs Wouters, in the distribution of profits, for example, of a non-profit-making organisation, e.g. a company, e.g. a company or a cvba, account must be taken, first of all, of the company's obligation to set up a legal reserve if the minimum amounts of legal reserves have not yet been reached. This will even apply to many small companies, since their capital was recently increased by clicking on the reserves, in accordance with Article 537 of the WIB 92. For small companies, the possibility was created to create a reserve that qualifies fiscally as a liquidation reserve within the meaning of Article 184quater. To this end, a transfer must be made from the profit to be allocated for the financial year to one or more separate accounts of the liability. For a Belgian company, this code is 9905 in the Models of the National Bank's annual accounts. Under which separate account of the passive liquidation is entered in the accounts is of secondary importance. If it is decided at the profit allocation to book part of the profit to be allocated for the financial year, after tax of course, on a separate sub-account within the statutory reserves, this sub-account of the statutory reserves may qualify fiscally as a liquidation reserve. Hopefully, and from your body language I have succeeded, I have been able to reassure you that the fiscal ability to create a liquidation reserve does not in any way discourage the provision of sufficient social capital.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic098x.u111	Mr President, Minister, I am extremely reassured and pleased with this clear answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic098x.u112	Minister, my question was introduced some time ago. The Government has decided to replace one of the Vice-Presidents of the National Bank of Belgium (NBB). That's why I'm asking you. What were the criteria behind the decision to end the term of office of a Vice-President of the NBB? Who presided over the decision to appoint a new Vice-President of the NBB? To what extent has a selection process with a call for applications, either via the Selor or based on the skills or knowledge of the candidates in this function, been implemented within this framework? In general, does the federal government intend to implement a mandate regime for the highest responsibilities of the federal public service? I am also referring to a bill that was defended a few weeks ago by colleague Peter Dedecker of the N-VA. It proposed this type of procedure for the appointment of the highest executives of the banks, including hearings, checks of competences, etc. I believe that it must be applied in everything and if there is a mandate regime, it must be made clear rather than done in stoemelings.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic098x.u113	Mr Gilkinet, the Governor of the National Bank is appointed by the King for a five-year term. The directors of the National Bank of Belgium are also appointed by the King, on a proposal from the Council of Regency, for a term of six years. Article 19.1 of the Act of 22 February 1998 establishing the organic status of the National Bank of Belgium provides that "one of the directors of the NBB shall bear the title of Vice-Governor which the King confers on him". The Director who holds the title of Deputy Governor shall replace the Governor in the event that the Governor is prevented from doing so. It is therefore a title and not a term of office as Deputy Governor. When the title of Vice-Governor of the National Bank is transferred from one Director to another, the former shall in any event remain in office as Director. The Act does not define selection criteria for the appointment of a Deputy Governor nor does it provide for a selection process with a call for applications. This is due to the fact that the function of Deputy Governor of the National Bank is, like the function of Governor, what is called a function of trust, for which the government has a broad discretion.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic098x.u114	We have indeed seen the government's wide discretion in this matter. I am not defending anyone in the case, but I think we should be explicit and consider, as is happening in our country or in the Walloon Region, as long as the laws that have been passed are applied, a real mandate regime, where senior officials can evolve according to majorities, rather than applying what can only be interpreted a posteriori as political games, which is problematic. Competency is really important; and the clarity of the rules involved in the selection of senior officials is equally important. Here, the episode seemed a bit political.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic098x.u115	Mr President, Minister, as part of his last speech, the Director of the National Bank – I will not say his name so as not to customize spectacular and challenging ideas like the one that was set out a few days ago – has proposed to banks to adapt their tariff policy so that the customer pays the real cost for each product. This would constitute an increase in the tariff applied so that, according to the National Bank, "realistic" margins can be achieved under all market conditions. The BNB also believes that banks should gradually bill email for each financial product. The effect of this measure would be to increase the rates of banks and to undermine the accessibility of basic financial services for all our citizens. Some will have no trouble paying, but others will have much more. The question of the soundness of banks is really important, but it can be answered differently: by a review of the dividend distribution policy, a review of the bank executives' wage policy. It's their choice... It is also the possibility of a bank contribution that is more in line with the bank's risk profile, favouring retail banks offering community service to citizens. We have criticized the criteria applied in the context of the banking contribution by considering them too little progressive. Minister, what is your opinion on this proposal by the BNB to increase bank rates? Do you endorse and support this proposal? I have mentioned other possible measures to strengthen the soundness of the banking sector. Do you support them more? Do you work there? More broadly, is an evaluation of the new banking law planned? We have discussed this in the context of the presentation of your policy note. If so, by what date?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic098x.u116	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the proposal referred to in the question refers to a passage from the preamble of the last annual report of the National Bank. The profitability of banks is an essential condition for financial institutions to be able to meet the more demanding regulatory constraints imposed on them at European level, precisely in order to overcome the problems of soundness and stability highlighted by the financial crisis. These new regulations will in particular require these institutions to gradually increase the level of their own funds. The scheme explicitly takes into account the risk profile of banks. The ability to issue capital to meet the remaining limited requirements is mainly through a reserve of profits that banks and insurance companies will be able to increase their solvency coefficient. This adequate reserve of profits therefore implies that the distribution of dividends is carried out with great moderation. The challenge is important if we are to maintain a robust financial system capable of effectively delivering credit and covering risks within the economy. It could only be met by acting on several fronts, which prompted the National Bank's call to explore multiple tracks. The question to which your question refers, namely, "the more systematic pricing of open reserves in order to bring them more in line with the real cost of activities", is only one of them. Among the others, I will mention these. The reduction of operating costs which still bear the mark of the organizations set up to ensure the previous expansion strategies. Maintaining realistic margins between debtor and payable rates. The development of other activities, in particular those generating interest-free income, while avoiding such additional income from own-account market transactions, which are extremely volatile and can quickly turn into heavy losses. This has led the Belgian authorities to introduce a structural measure to prohibit the principle of own-account trading of banks. For insurance companies, a transfer of certain risks to insured persons through the use of contracts whose returns are linked to those of investment funds.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic098x.u117	Minister, you have not given me your appreciation of this proposal, which is not the best in terms of accessibility of banking services. There are extremes to avoid, such as placing this cost even more on banking workers or users. We need to move, as we have done in the past or as we still do, towards financial markets. It is more to the question of the allocation of dividends to the strengthening of own funds and to a certain wage moderation of executives that priority should be given. We continue to believe that the method of calculating the contributions of the banking sector does not sufficiently take into account the risk profile of banks, not adequately rewarding retail banks that continue to do a job of collecting savings and lending to the real economy.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic098x.u118	This answers all the questions. Thank you, Minister, for your presence. The sitting was completed an hour earlier than expected, so we have worked well. The meeting will probably take place next week on Wednesday morning.
