ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic174x.u1	Minister, the press echoed your bill with the Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration, Mr. Theo Francken, to ensure that convicted persons who are illegally staying in our country can no longer be granted conditional release only if it is accompanied by an effective expulsion. Your bill also provides for alternative sanctions such as electronic bracelets, labour penalties, etc. - will not be applicable to them, since these measures to facilitate the reintegration of detainees could not concern individuals who are to leave the territory. In addition, an illegal detainee who had been released in advance and who would return to Belgium after being expelled from it would have to serve the remainder of his sentence there. Finally, you wish to prepare for the expulsion of illegal detainees six months before their release, against the current two months. The President of the League for Human Rights responded by stressing that illegal residents who had served their sentences in prison were already being transferred to a closed centre for deportation, but that not all were expelled, as some could claim to regularize their situation because of ties with Belgium. Minister, my questions are as follows. Don't you feel like you're applying a double sentence? Indeed, as the President of the League for Human Rights pointed out: "For the same crime or crime, illegal residents would be punished more severely than other detainees, for lack of proper stamp on the right paper". Then, don't you run into a risk of prison overcrowding? If convicted persons in illegal residence can no longer benefit from alternative measures, such as the wearing of the electronic bracelet or labour penalties, your objective will never be achieved. And if you keep them in custody to the full by making it easier for them to be released on parole, our prisons will remain full and the risk of recidivism will increase. Finally, has there been a consultation with trade union representatives and staff? If so, can I hear the conclusions?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic174x.u2	Mr Kir, the laws relating to the execution of prison sentences are the responsibility of the Department of Justice. To the extent that there is a question of condemning without the right of residence in the Kingdom, the Minister of the Interior and the Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration are also concerned that the implementation of the law relating to aliens in general and the expulsion of persons residing illegally fall within their competence. Under current legislation, convicted persons who have been found not to have the right to remain in Belgium and who have to leave the country are not eligible for parole, as evidenced by the current designation in the Act of 17 May 2006 on early release for this category of convicted persons, i.e. provisional release for removal from the territory. Provisional release for removal from the territory has so far not been defined in the law. The Court of Cassation has clearly described this method of execution of sentence and considers it to be a method of execution of sentence which applies only to foreigners who do not have a valid residence permit, or a residence permit which has not yet expired, or an establishment permit. In this respect, the proposed legal amendments provide clarity and legal certainty with regard to the jurisprudence of the Court of Cassation. For convicted persons who have been found not to have the right to remain in Belgium, it is difficult to grant them an alternative method that allows them to enter or stay in Belgium. The granting by the Minister of Justice or by the courts of enforcement of sentences of leave of absence, prison leave, electronic supervision or limited detention would conflict with other laws such as those relating to access to the territory and the law of aliens. There is therefore no question of double punishment. On the contrary, the objective is for convicted persons who are found not to have the right to remain in Belgium to release them early, as soon as possible, after having reached the time limits for their removal from the territory. In the legal amendment that I propose, the contraindication of proof of an address abroad is even deleted because it was often difficult to prove in practice by these convicts. If it is not established that these convicts are not entitled to stay, then the parole procedure remains applicable. The legal amendment you quote from the extension of the period of removal from two months to six months, before the end of the execution of all sentences, is in favour of convicted persons without legal residence. These convicts did not obtain early release from the sentence enforcement court, which obliges them to serve their entire sentence. By extending this period, these people are allowed to leave prison four months earlier. This gives the prison administration and the Foreign Office more time to determine whether or not these persons have the right to stay and to repatriate them if necessary. The proposed legal amendment is therefore certainly not likely to exacerbate prison overcrowding in relation to the current situation. In the context of the protection of human rights, I can also mention that the Court of Cassation has ruled that the prohibition of return to Belgium for a convicted person provisionally released for removal from the territory does not in any way violate the right to respect for private and family life guaranteed by article 8 of the Convention. This is a measure resulting from the removal of the territory under Article 47(2) of the Act of 17 May 2006 and may therefore be necessary in a democratic society for public security and the prevention of criminal acts. The Central Penitentiary Administration was consulted on the proposed amendments.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic174x.u3	Minister, you have been particularly thorough. You reassure us by explaining that there will be no overpopulation due to this. You said that some of the rules for preventive release and removal from the territory were missing. This is part of what you intend to do now. What direction are you going to go? How are you going to put this into practice with Mr Franken?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic174x.u4	Minister, I have the same introduction to the four following questions. I have seen that you have taken note of the Court of Auditors' report and that you have already provided a brief response to it in the report itself. However, the reading of the report has given rise to a number of questions, the first of which concerns the monitoring of career calculations and the payment of judicial staff. One of the concerns of the Court of Auditors' report is that the internal control of the recording and calculation of wages within the HR Court staff department is not conclusive. As a result, in some cases, the determination of the financial seniority was incorrect, which led to the wrong granting of benefits or allowances. For example, the HR Service cannot ensure that the personal and career data of the computerised database are correct and most of the communication of performance and leave data from the courts and courts is non-informated. In many cases these data are simply transmitted and have to be transmitted afterwards. Furthermore, the department does not check, at least not systematically, the statement of changes forwarded to the Central Office of Fixed Expenditure. Nor is it the case with the checklists of payments made by the Central Bureau of Fixed Expenditure. In addition, the Court of Auditors found in the calculation of financial seniority that previous services were not always properly counted or that evidence was lacking. With regard to the granting of the allowances and allowances, the Court finds, inter alia, that amendments were not communicated or wrongly communicated to the CDVU or that the CDVU did not carry out any changes which unduly prevented certain persons from receiving a betting allowance, allowance or compensation. Minister, the Court of Auditors' report mainly covers the year 2013. I know that you have only just had the authority to do so, but I would like to ask you a few questions. What initiatives will you take to ensure that the follow-up to benefits and the calculation of wages, remuneration seniority and contributions is optimal? How can it be ensured that the data of the database are correct? It is not just a matter of updating the data in the database; it would also be important for that database to be shared with the non-central authorities so that the courts and courts do not have to pass it on manually but that it can be integrated automatically. What are the consequences of the discrepancies identified by the Court of Auditors? Will recovery be effected?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic174x.u5	Mr Minister, the Court of Auditors' audit of judicial staff tells us that there are inconsistencies in the granting of allowances, allowances and bonuses, as my colleague said. Two out of six staff members improperly receive additional salary for the performance of their duties as Clerk-Chief of Staff, a position they no longer perform. Similarly, additional treatment for the assistance of the juvenile judge or the investigating judge is granted to a clerk, more than six years after the end of this function of assistance. With regard to language bonuses, I am reminded of the very recent insecurity in which members of the Judicial Order's staff, who were appointed on a temporary basis, were waiting for their certificate of bilingualism, and I can only be surprised to read some developments. It appears that a staff member is entitled to it without any language certificate being added to his file and that two other persons are also entitled to it while exercising in a jurisdiction where knowledge of a second national language is not required by law. The number of cases identified in the audit remains in the order of the exception, but these situations could have been sustained with the financial cost involved and, above all, other people who should benefit from it, for lack of resources. The cases highlighted in the report demonstrate what can be identified as evaluable errors in money. How will these errors be corrected? Will the technique rather be that of a clean table of the past? Or do you envisage retroactive correction, which would involve the repayment of substantial sums, which would play a very clear role in the disadvantage of the beneficiaries of the said allowances, allowances or bonuses, who are not responsible for the errors made in their files? Have undue payments already been made as a result of what the audit revealed? What control and management mechanism do you intend to put in place so that similar situations no longer arise?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic174x.u6	Mr President, in his special report on personnel policy, the Court of Auditors describes the calculation of wages, financial seniority and contributions. Three instances play a role. Firstly, benefits and leave data are forwarded by the personnel responsible for courts and courts. Secondly, the services of the Directorate-General for Judicial Organisation manage a central, computerised database containing the personal and career data of the staff. Thirdly, the Central Department for Fixed Expenditure of the FPS Finance calculates and pays the wages. It is important that there is an appropriate and sufficiently harmonised exchange of information. This can indeed be improved. Pending further development and investment in computer science, work is being carried out on the development of an integrity policy, on the development of the service catalogue that records the performance that courts and courts can expect from the Directorate-General for Justice, on the exchange of information between courts and courts, on the one hand, and central administration, on the other hand, on the correct identification of absenteeism (4.9 %) and on the appropriate measures against absenteeism by the involvement and follow-up of Medex, on the monitoring of lead times, on the continuity of services in which up to 50% of part-time work is carried out, on the increased deployment of the Institute for Judicial Training with an appropriate supply for judicial staff, and on the start-up of a new staff evaluation system since 1 July 2014. As indicated above, the use of information technology is essential for correct data management. Pending the completion of the initiatives, electronic structured information exchange is further promoted. The existing database shall be adapted within its limits to the needs of the HR Court staff department. The fact that there is no longer any support from the company that started the database has no direct impact on the accuracy of the data. The accuracy of the information depends on the quality of the data stored, whereas the data stored is based on two factors: on the one hand, the person who introduces the codes and, on the other, the staff member who has to inform the staff department of the change made to the data. Since 2013, personal data have been subject to additional control following a request for additional information from staff members. The errors which have been found by the Court of Auditors are rectified. The same applies to others who may appear on the occasion of the correction. Judicial Order staff are treated in this regard in the same way as the rest of the staff, both inside and outside the Justice FPS. The treatment is performed with the same rigour as elsewhere. However, in the cases which justify it, the same indulgence is shown. This also includes, where justified, the granting of a payment plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic174x.u7	Minister, computerisation will play an important role in the issue of wage calculation and its monitoring. The chairman of the committee has repeatedly announced that he would like to hold a committee session in order to do so, something which I supported and which you have addressed. It is important that we do not remain on the agenda today, but with the means that we have to try to arrive at a correct calculation. I hear from you that you have to manually transfer data to a central service which they must set up and which, for the sake of security, must contact the staff member in order to verify that everything is correct. Such a method requires a great deal of manpower and effort and can undoubtedly give rise to errors. Further computerisation with automatic data input and... exchange is very important. You will be able to explain to us the state of play of the computerization of justice in the wake of the committee meeting which we are eagerly looking forward to. We hope that some progress can be made on this point too.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic174x.u8	Minister, thank you for your answer. It is obvious that the exchange of information between courts and tribunals and the central administration is important, but, as my colleague said, when there is a change of personal situation, we must not wait for that person to make the move. While it is essential to inform justice and make it more professional, this problem highlights some dysfunctions that should be avoided as much as possible. In any case, errors should be corrected. On this point, you have given me no answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic174x.u9	Mr President-in-Office, this morning the question of the occupation of the framework was raised in connection with the presentation and discussion of the annual report of the Court of Cassation. What has been explained to us there, I have formulated it in my question, and the Court of Auditors has presented its findings in a report to Parliament, it is important that we take this into account........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The first President of the Court of Cassation concluded this morning that we are in fact in breach of Article 6 of the ECHR and that, as a result of the non-fulfilment of the frameworks, we would not be able to guarantee the judge a fair trial. That is a far-reaching conclusion, but the fact that the frameworks are not complete and that the Court of Auditors finds that there are insufficient staff and resources to meet the mission is of course a matter of concern to us. I also know that, within the framework of independent management, we must not specifically stick to the frameworks, which may be a remnant of the past, and that we will work with budgetary envelopes in the future, precisely for reasons of flexibility and in order to improve the organisation. In any case, for staff needs, which will undoubtedly be an element to be taken into account in the budgeting of these envelopes, a legal instrument is defined, in particular, the measurement of workload. Minister, what is the state of the work load measurement? There is the problem of the so-called recruitment stop and the late publications for magistrate places. You said in an answer to the Court of Auditors' report that you would seek solutions, in which exceptions are necessary. How do you deal with that today? What progress has been made in practice with the new consultation structures foreseen in the reform of the judicial landscape? I am thinking, for example, of the permanent body for HRM matters within DG RO?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic174x.u10	Mr Minister, the audit carried out by the Court of Auditors reveals shortcomings in internal control, staffing, career management - recruitment, leave management, seniority calculation - and the granting of allowances, allowances and/or bonuses. I will take care to distinguish these points in order to obtain more details in your answer. I will first focus on the number or understaffing, I should say. The audit found that neither the staff of the Registry nor the Public Prosecutor's Office met the current needs. It would appear that this is the result of budgetary measures that would lead to the static nature of the personnel and staffing framework or the publication of job vacancies only on a quarterly basis. The first President of the Court of Cassation also spoke this morning of the interval between a vacant post and publication in the Belgian Moniteur. This situation is damaging and all the more worrying when we read that not only the workforce is subnumerary, but it is not necessarily suitable, because some essential functions are missing from the call. In these circumstances, it is the full effectiveness of justice that can be called into question. Minister, will a staff framework be established that takes into account the objectives of each justice department? Is the possible reorganization of services planned? Will budgets be allocated to fill the missing posts? In this context, if priorities are set, what elements will be taken into account in determining which commitment is more urgent than another, while the lack seems to be cross-cutting?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic174x.u11	Mr President, the Court of Auditors is right to point out that the current establishment plans are, in fact, the continuation of previously established formations which have been adjusted ad hocly in the context of specific policies or personnel policies. They cannot therefore be regarded as the result of an up-to-date analysis of staff needs. Although a system of workload measurements in the judicial system has been introduced under their own management since 2004, this process has not yet been completed and the results have not yet affected the establishment plans. For the courts and courts, the Vast Bureau voor statistiek en Werklastmeaten has carried out workload measurements for the labour law banks. The report is of May 2013........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... By letter dated 22 April 2015, the College of the Courts and Courts announced that it would be able to complete the other workload measurements by December 2015 in accordance with Article 45 of the Law of 18 February 2014. The police courts and peace courts are running. The Commercial Courts were launched in March 2015 and the Labour Courts will be launched in June 2015. The Public Prosecutor's Office and its Standing Bureau on Work Load Measurement and Organisational Development currently have a measuring instrument for the workload of magistrates and prosecutors within the correctional section and traffic section of the parquets of first instance...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... To meet the needs of strategic workforce planning based on an objective analysis of staffing needs, the two Colleges prioritize additional steps and new measures in 2016. The headquarters would also like to add criteria for judicial staff and project a cross-section of workload measures according to courts and tribunals, so that the processing times of shared or similar products between different types of courts become more consistent. The Public Prosecutor's Office will carry out a new workload measurement for the fourth quarter of 2016 based on, among other things, the description of the different work processes. For the staff concerned, the Ministers for the Budget and the Civil Service have so far accepted the requested redeployment. During budgetary control, the entire staff of the Court of Justice were able to adjust the savings imposed. The Council of Ministers of 30 April adopted a new follow-up mechanism, with the cessation of recruitment. Justice, like the other departments, is now allowed to recruit within the budget envelope allocated. Compliance with these envelopes shall be monitored by the Ministers for the Budget and the Civil Service. From this month on, this is a mandatory cyclic process, in which a transparent and responsive HR policy is central and management is confirmed in its role as responsible decision-maker. For management it is therefore necessary, before taking a HR decision involving costs, to assess its feasibility within the current and structural budgetary limits. Compliance with this commitment and the transparency of the decision vis-à-vis the control authorities determine the autonomy of management to connect the State for short-term and long-term employment relationships. For the judiciary, the intention is to establish, in the long term, both the budget envelopes and their follow-up in management contracts with the headquarters and the prosecutor's office. The management of the Justice FPS shall be conducted in close consultation with the headquarters and the prosecutor's office for the implementation of the procedure described. Finally, the new consultation structures included in the reform of the judicial landscape have started in practice. Both colleges were installed in December 2014. Their support services are now being implemented. The common management committee was also set up by law. Both colleges shall cooperate with the Management Committee of the FPS Justice on all matters concerning the support of the judicial order. They also actively participate in mixed working groups on HRM, budget and logistics.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic174x.u12	Minister, you have given us a great deal of information for which I thank you. As far as the state of the workload measurement is concerned, I will have to look at it carefully in order to make it clear. In any case, I understand that she has not been fully completed. As far as implementation is concerned, I would like to know whether we are waiting for all workload measurements to be completed or whether we will implement them sooner? If I have understood you correctly, you say that today, apart from the workload measurements, we are adjusting where necessary and that we are doing so in consultation with the actors and the new colleges that have been installed. Can I understand from that that you say that on the ground one can relieve the worst need and that the service can be insured or have I misunderstood you?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic174x.u13	Minister, you talked about a 2013 report, a 2015 report, monitoring and cyclical management processes before making a decision in consultation with partners and, above all, within budget limits. For example, once all the information has been collected, it will always take some time to obtain the final results. This time frame may not be in a fixed pattern and the results may not be up-to-date.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic174x.u14	Minister, the Court of Auditors' report shows that a number of conditions for effective internal control of the HR component would not have been fulfilled in the Directorate-General for Judicial Organisation of the FPS Justice. For example, the HR objectives of the management plan were not based on a risk analysis of the personnel processes and the courts did not have access to centrally computerised personal and career data. So, here we are again. The HR Court staff department was not involved in the preparation of the FPS Justice Management Plan. The objectives of the management plan are not based on a risk analysis of the personnel cycle. In addition, a large proportion of the staff of the HR Court staff are employed at level C. There is not enough experience in two underlying cells, it is said. The Court of Auditors calls for all HR processes to be written out in a procedure manual with established control rules and for a hierarchical officer to be appointed in the department, who systematically checks the declaration of changes for dispatch to the Central Fixed Expenditure Office. Compared to DGRO, the powers of the personnel responsible in the courts and courts are limited to primary personnel matters. In addition, they do not have access to the personal and career data database of the HR Court staff service, which does not ensure that the data kept by the courts are consistent with the data of the database. Do you think, Minister, that a manual of procedures, as proposed by the Court of Auditors, should be drawn up? Are you fond of that idea? Will a hierarchical responsible be appointed, as suggested by the Court of Auditors? Will access to the personal and career data database of HR Court staff be created for those responsible in the courts and courts, so that all data is consistent with each other? The last part of my question is actually in line with the question of computerization, which was addressed in my first question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic174x.u15	Mr President, Mr Minister, the audit of the Court of Auditors reveals a lack of internal control over benefits and, consequently, in the calculation of salaries and seniority. You know that there is a computerized database in which the identification of staff members is included. This shows a certain modernity, but it still needs to be kept up to date. However, the transfer of useful information seems to be non-existent, for example with regard to benefits and leave. Under these conditions, the error in the calculation of pecuniary antiquities was foreseeable. Moreover, the audit reports two cases where previous services were valued without proof of their existence, thus without certification. The reverse case also occurred. Again, services accounted for one third too much, services accounted for without taking into account the suspension that had affected the staff member concerned, or even the incompleteness of his file. Mr Minister, since this is not only about people's careers, but also about public money, do you not think that a clear procedure for monitoring treatment should be put in place? Do you take care of the continued training of these agents who do not necessarily have all the skills necessary to establish the sometimes tedious calculations of old age? Have the unduly paid persons been or will they be forced to repay the amounts collected or have you taken any measures without retroactive effect promising the proper functioning of the service?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic174x.u16	Mr President, is this question only put by Mrs Özen?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic174x.u17	No, it's a joint question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic174x.u18	In its special report on personnel policy for courts and tribunals and for parquet secretariats, the Court of Auditors indeed calls for all HR processes to be written out in a manual of procedures with established control rules. The Court of Auditors has also found in its report that the explanatory notes on the selection and recruitment procedures can be found in two manuals, which the Directorate-General for Judicial Order issued: one for levels B, C and D and one for level A. They shall explain the conditions of participation for recruitment, the organisation of the additional trial and the composition of the selection dossier. The other rules of procedure and control are described in more detail in a service catalogue. There is a need to improve the description of procedures and controls primarily with a view to further empowering staff management. These improvements will therefore be implemented as soon as possible. In order to be as effective as possible, however, they will have to take into account the necessary adaptations in the light of the expected increase in empowerment. The appointment of a hierarchical officer, as suggested by the Court of Auditors, must be placed in its proper context. In my reply to the Court of Auditors of 10 March 2015, I indicated that there is indeed a need for systematic prior validation in connection with the control of the betting states, which are delivered monthly to the Central Bureau of Fixed Expenditure. This is not only important for monitoring, it is also politically relevant. It is therefore not necessary to wait until actual payments are made by the Central Fixed Expenditure Service in order to make more reliable projections of staff management margins. Within the Justice FPS, it is planned to improve cooperation between the various staff departments, under the supervision of the Personnel & Organisation management. Here too, adaptation is needed in the long term, in the light of the pursuit of empowerment. Finally, efforts are also being made to improve staff data, further computerisation of staff management and automation of reporting. The aim is to increase the involvement of personnel in courts and courts. To this end, a first opening project was launched in April 2015 by the P&D staff department and the Directorate-General RO with the ICT staff department. The aim is to open up the existing internal personnel application Person 1999 to the local courts and prosecutors for consultation and/or management. The business analysis focuses on ensuring the confidentiality of the data and the creation of sufficiently secure access, limited to the personnel data of the own judicial entity, including its departments. In addition, in accordance with the Justice Plan, an environment based on business intelligence has been developed around this application, which should allow in a first phase, in principle by July 2015, to provide automated and anonymous reports on the situation of staff in the judiciary and individual entities.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic174x.u19	Thank you, Minister, for your reply and note that the recommendations of the Court of Auditors are being followed, which is positive. I am also pleased that, pending the drawing up of a procedural manual containing the processes, we are working on the control of the States before they are transferred to the central department for the payment of expenditure. Hopefully, a subsequent report by the Court of Auditors will enable progress to be made in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic174x.u20	Mr President, I thank the minister for his answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic174x.u21	Mr President, Minister, I have a brief question. According to the Court of Auditors' report, public funds would not be used effectively in a statutory selection because, in addition to a first selection by Selor, an additional trial is organised by the Ministry of Justice. Successive selection procedures would be organised on exactly the same selection method. The procedures would therefore be the same twice. The Court of Auditors states that this means that public funds are handled in an inefficient way. After all, one test would suffice. That's what I read in the report. In addition, it is noted that a selection must go through a very long period of time, namely on average one or two years, with all the consequences of this in the field where they are to be expected. I'll give you my questions very briefly. Firstly, how can this selection procedure be organised more efficiently or should it not be more efficient? Is the Court of Auditors wrong? I don't know. I'm asking you. Secondly, there is also a problem of transparency. That has to do with organising the same procedure twice. Thirdly, how can an open relationship be completed more quickly and do not need to drag on for more than one or two years so that there are no problems on the ground?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic174x.u22	Mr President, Mrs Van Cauter, there are no more two separate procedures or tests. The jury with Selor contains people from the parquet secretariats and clerks. The full selection is therefore carried out under the supervision of Selor. The selection dossiers should indeed be compiled and proposed in a uniform manner. The HR Court staff department already works with templates used during the selections and must ensure that this is done consistently. The duration varies for different reasons. I can't give you precise data at this time, given the short term to answer. A simplification of the procedure could, in my view, be an acceleration. In the implementation of my Justice Plan in the third potpourriwet, I also foresee, in consultation with the syndicates, a number of adjustments to the recruitment procedure for the court staff, which will strengthen local management autonomy, inter alia by abolishing the priority for change and by giving the local management committee the freedom of choice or by filling the vacancy through change, mobility, promotion, change of degree or recruitment.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic174x.u23	Thank you, Minister, for the answer which at least clarified the findings of the Court of Auditors on the selection procedure. I note that there is only one procedure going through. In addition, taking into account management autonomy, you want to make efforts to make the procedure even more efficient so that suitable staff can be filled in more quickly where necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic174x.u24	Mr. Speaker, Minister, the press indicates that the Speaker of the Senate wishes to reopen a debate in the House on the establishment of a file listing all sex offenders. On the assumption of redundancy with the existence of the criminal record, Ms Defraigne replied from the outset that the database would be wider, since persons charged with acts of morality would also be classified there. Mrs Defraigne believes that this method is compatible with the presumption of innocence, but let me doubt it. Indeed, people would be included when they could eventually be cleared of suspicion. We are not told how these people could get the erasure of their data, knowing that even a temporary stay in this database can have adverse consequences for their reputation. The main argument put forward is that this database would allow for more rapid investigations. However, it seems to me that the ViCLAS database can already meet this objective, provided that it is accurately and comprehensively fed and that the staff resources are sufficient to do so. Recommendations to that effect had already been made by the Commission on the treatment of sexual abuse and paedophilia in a relationship of authority. Minister, do you believe in the opportunity to create a sex offender database, which is difficult to reconcile with the presumption of innocence? If so, on the basis of which criteria and presumptions could suspected persons appear? When and how could they see their name permanently disappear from this database to be created? The College of Attorneys General has, in the past, argued that the ViCLAS database should be fed on a mandatory basis. Where are we now? Has a circular to this effect been taken? Does the local police now have sufficient staff to meet this obligation to feed this database? Is this staff adequately trained? The Sexual Abuse Commission also indicated the importance of mentioning the relationship, possibly of authority, and the possible link between the perpetrator and the victim. Will that now be the case?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic174x.u25	Mrs Özen, you will understand that I cannot, in the context of a parliamentary question, specify the way in which a database is to be operated and fed, the principle of which has not been decided upon. You yourself rightly stress the sensitivity, particularly with regard to the presumption of innocence. I would point out that there are two databases within the police that together contain all the information about sex offenders. This is the BNG data bank, the General National Data Bank, regulated by Ministerial Circular MFO3 and the ViCLAS data bank, Violent Crime Linkage Analysis System. Instructions are given to all police services regarding the feeding of the police, which is intended to help investigators connect different acts of behaviour committed with violence outside the context of a relationship. The manner in which this data bank is fed is specified in the Manual on Moral Offences and disseminated in January 2015 within the police services. As for the third point, it is clear from the competence of my colleague in charge of the Interior. The Federal Police informs me that the competent service is being developed in order to insert into the ViCLAS database all the records of acts of morality committed with violence and concerning an original unknown perpetrator, as well as all attempts to kidnap minors, with the aim of establishing links between different facts and giving direction to the investigation. The results of the analysis shall be communicated to the Information Coordination Service Arrondissement (SICA) and to the investigators of the local and federal police services with a view to communicating the analyses to the magistrate in a report. Each police department can contact the ViCLAS Central Service at any time to obtain information in a criminal investigation and to call upon the expertise of the ViCLAS Central Service. The draft ViCLAS circular which determines the processing of information is on the agenda of the next meeting of the Network of Expertise of the College of Attorneys General. The current ViCLAS database, managed at a central level, is recognized by the Privacy Commission.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic174x.u26	Minister, thank you. Additional efforts should be made in terms of means to be able to feed this ViCLAS database more systematically, as this is still not mandatory. It should be made more binding by providing for the obligation to feed this database with the minutes.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic174x.u27	Minister, the recent conference of the Men having babies association is creating a controversy related by the press. Briefly, this association allows male homosexual couples to resort to pregnancy for others (GPA), as part of their desire to have a baby. The use of a surrogate mother in exchange for money seems mostly to sound like a commodification of the human body. While it is undeniable that the tariffed process is an issue, it must be noted that in Belgium GPA is neither authorised nor prohibited. However, beyond the many ethical issues that this raises, the issue of the child in the future is central and, for this reason, regulation is crucial. Indeed, the GPA raises a number of questions such as the withdrawal of the couple who have expressed the wish to have a child by GPA. What about the removal of the surrogate mother? What are the consequences of the death of the child or one of the foster parents? Regulation to clarify and answer these questions is therefore essential. Minister, are you considering legislation in this area? What is the government's position regarding the recognition of children born by GPA? Do you think that simplifying the conditions for adoption could help in this debate, that couples would be less tempted by the process if adoption was not seen as a course of the combatant?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic174x.u28	Mr President, Mrs Özen, the government agreement does not provide for a government initiative on pregnancy for others (GPA). Nevertheless, this problem raises important questions, as the recent news points out, to which you refer. However, the Senate has taken the lead by holding hearings on the subject since February 9, 2015. In addition, several bills are pending in the House. Parliament therefore has the initiative in this area. In the present state of our law, in the absence of specific legislation, the recognition of the filiation bond of children born by GPA abroad is subject to the provisions of the Code of Private International Law. Where recognition relates to a birth certificate issued abroad, articles 27 and 62 of the Code of Private International Law shall apply. Several conditions must be met for a birth certificate drawn up abroad to be recognised in Belgium. Thus, if the parents of intention are Belgian nationals at the time of birth, the filiation found in the foreign birth certificate will be assessed under Belgian law. Moreover, the use of GPA abroad cannot constitute fraud of the law, i.e. an attempt to escape the application of Belgian law, and must be compatible with international public policy. The case law considers, for example, that the use of a surrogate mother in exchange for money is incompatible with public order. Where recognition relates to a judicial decision handed down abroad establishing filiation for the benefit of intentional parents, article 25 of the Code of Private International Law shall apply. The compatibility of the use of GPA with public policy and fraud are also central issues. I do not think that simplifying the conditions for adoption could contribute to the debate for a number of reasons. In general, people use GPA to have a genetic connection with the child, which does not allow adoption. The conditions for adoption in the State of which the child originates are such as to prevent adoption by homosexual couples and not by Belgian law.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic174x.u29	Minister, thank you for your detailed answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic174x.u30	Debates of the European Parliament 4172 by Mrs Lahaye-Battheu will be converted into a written question. Question No 4256 by Mrs Jadin is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic174x.u31	Every two seconds, somewhere in the world, an underage girl marries, and she didn't choose to marry. In the plenary session of 5 March 2015, a resolution was adopted on the fight against forced child marriages, wherever in the world, especially in the partner countries of Belgian development cooperation. In Belgium, too, child marriages seem to occur more and more often. However, forced marriages in our country are illegal and therefore punishable. It is a violation of children's and human rights. The reasons are obvious to us. It hypotheizes the future of the girls, with all the consequences of that. The government rightly calls for the fight against child marriages to be stepped up in the partner countries of Belgian development cooperation. For children's weddings in their own country, I have questions. Do you have any idea how many child marriages have taken place in our country in the last three years? What nationality were the children? How does it occur when a child marriage is established? What approach do you propose to combat child marriages in your own country?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic174x.u32	Mr President, I refer to my answers to the parliamentary questions put by Mrs Kattrin Jadin No. 3343 and Mrs Karin Jiroflée nr. 3352 of 22 April 2015. As mentioned in my previous answers, a distinction must be made between the terms child marriage and forced marriage. Both often come together, but the distinction between the two must be borne in mind for the concrete formulation of a policy. Not every forced marriage is a child's wedding. Under Belgian law, a Belgian minor may marry if he is authorised by the family court. This is about Article 145 of the Civil Code. In addition, the parents must give their consent. Where they refuse to do so, the family court may authorise marriage if they consider the parents' refusal to do so to be abusive. That is provided for in Article 148. Account should also be taken of private international law in the case of marriage involving a non-Belgian minor or a non-Belgian minor, or where the marriage is carried out abroad. Moreover, the public order exception in Article 21 WIPR does not allow the recognition of such marriages with a child carried out abroad. As regards your question about the number of child marriages in our country over the last three years, I can provide you with the following limited figures concerning the number of cases sentenced, pursuant to Articles 145 and 148 of the WFD. These are included in the annual statistics of courts and courts, published on the website of the FPS Justice Department. Since 1 September 2014, the family court has been responsible for matters. However, the 2014 figures are not yet available. The figures do not give any information on the content of the judgments. I cannot therefore tell you how many authorisations or refusals were made. I would also point out that the figures refer only to minors of Belgian nationality who, through the court of first instance, have obtained the abolition of the prohibition of marriage before the age of 18. In 2013, 9 applications for the lifting of the general marriage ban for minors were dealt with and delivered. In 2012, 13 requests were made and 17 requests were made in 2011 and 2010. Consequently, I cannot confirm or verify your statement that more and more child marriages would occur in Belgium solely on the basis of the figures. However, it is possible that data on minors who marry may be kept in the National Register, but this falls within the competence of the Minister of the Interior. Forced marriages that would indirectly also be child marriages are prohibited and punishable in Belgium, just like a marriage of convenience. This can be read in article 146ter of the Civil Code, and article 391 et seq. of the Criminal Code. Forced marriages or marriages with a minor not exempted by the family court may be destroyed, not only at the request of the spouses concerned, but also at the request of the public prosecutor and all interested parties. The latter can be found in Article 184 of the Civil Code. The existing Belgian legislation on the treatment of forced marriages is sufficient and stresses that such practices are not tolerated in Belgium. As mentioned in my earlier reply of 22 April 2015, a marriage of convenience is easier to prove than a forced marriage, as there is the element of a right of residence benefit. The burden of proof of coercion is more difficult. I would also point out that, as far as my powers are concerned, reference can be made to the circular of 6 September 2013 on marriages of convenience. That circular also applies to forced marriages, although they do not contain any criteria, which may indicate a forced marriage. If such criteria can be developed, I see no objection to including them in the circular. In addition, a criminal policy is being pursued together with the College of Attorneys General. Referring to my earlier response of 22 April 2015, I await the National Action Plan Gender-related violence 2015-2019 before taking further concrete measures.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic174x.u33	Thank you very much, Minister, for your clear answer. With great interest I will also ask and check the answer to which you have referred several times. I see that you are indeed looking at this as a priority. The fact that you are waiting for the action plan speaks for itself. I am also aware that child marriages take place behind closed doors, in back rooms, and that lies far from the romance of a normal marriage. Despite the fact that the figures are rather low, the figures are 13 to 17 per year, of course there are 13 to 17 too many. Hopefully that number can be reduced to zero in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic174x.u34	Mr. President, Minister, the press reported a few days ago that the multidisciplinary investigation teams specializing in the fight against financial, fiscal and social crime (MOTEM) are still not in place. The legislative framework for the secondment of officials from other administrations such as the Special Tax Inspectorate or the Information and Social Research Service (SIRS) would not be complete. A royal decree would be lacking. Minister, can you confirm the information that MOTEMs are not operational in each judicial district? What are the causes of this delay? Is there a Royal Order allowing the detachment? If not, when will it be taken? Initially, this question was addressed to the Minister of the Interior, to whom I will address another question concerning the Central Office for Combating Organised Economic and Financial Crime (OECDFO) and the Federal Computer Crime Unit (FCCU), whose centrally based staff would complement the MOTEM staff. There would therefore no longer be an operational section at the federal level for these organizations for which I will eventually question you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic174x.u35	Mr President, Minister, my question was also addressed to the Minister of the Interior in follow-up to a question I asked in March 2014 to the then Minister of the Interior, Mrs Milquet. Under the law on optimisation of police services, it had provided for the creation of MOTEMs. Their establishment required the adoption by the government of a royal decree. While I was told that he was ready – an answer that we often receive when we ask this kind of question – he was not. I heard the testimony of Judge Michel Claise at the RTBF television newspaper this noon denouncing the abolition of OECDFO, a truly useful body in the fight against fraud. The two files seem to be linked. Minister, like Mrs Matz, I would like to ask you about MOTEM. What about the drafting of the royal decree necessary for their implementation? What is their composition? Is it a matter of detaching officials from central anti-fraud bodies, i.e. making them ineffective? In that case, that would be really worrying. These MOTEMs are a plus and not a minus. What will tomorrow be the relations between MOTEM and police areas, on the one hand, and between MOTEM and central services, on the other? I have a real concern about that, especially after hearing Judge Claise this afternoon.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic174x.u36	Mr President, Mrs Matz, Mr Gilkinet, Article 24 of the Law of 26 March 2014 on the optimisation of the police services, which entered into force on 1 October 2014, states that "in matters of organised economic and financial crime, tax and social fraud and ICT crime, research units are set up within the deconcentrated judicial directorates of Antwerp, Brussels, Charleroi/Mons, East Flanders and Liège, responsible for specialised investigations. In particular, they will be responsible for participating in joint multidisciplinary investigation teams. A royal decree deliberated in the Council of Ministers may lay down the arrangements for coordination, direction and commitment of staff." These joint investigation teams, called MOTEM (multidisciplinair onderzoekteam/multidisciplinary investigation team), which will be organised at the level of the courts of appeal, are not yet operational. Within the federal police, they are already being implemented. To this end, the staff members who will be part of the MOTEMs have been selected. My administration does not have any information on the status of these preparations within the other departments concerned. The creation of MOTEM is an integral part of the optimisation of the federal police, the process of which is under way. It is subject to compliance with multiple provisions on various opinions and consultations. The pooling of human resources requires a precise and detailed framework of work prior to the establishment of MOTEM. The same applies to the management and exchange of information between members of a MOTEM, in accordance with the legal framework specific to each service concerned. Good preparation is therefore a critical factor for success. This requires time and good agreements between the parties. The current investigative capacity of the Central Office for Combating Organized Economic and Financial Crime will be devolved to the District Judicial Directorates. The capacity for police participation in MOTEM is provided for in the organic table of the five districts mentioned in the law. With regard to collaboration between MOTEM and police areas, reference should be made to Col 2/2002 of the College of Attorneys General, in which a division of investigative tasks is settled. The MOTEM investigations will be part of this very detailed framework of work, without prejudice to the mission of the Federal Police in support of the police areas. In their relations with the central services of the federal police, MOTEMs will be able to contact them in the same way as other partner services. Certain relations, including those of MOTEM with the central services, could be clarified in a possible Royal Order MOTEM.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic174x.u37	Minister, that's what I was afraid of. I denounced him with a little more insistence yesterday in La Libre Belgique, hoping that you would have a break in favour of the OECDFO and the FCCU, which are also concerned. If a deconcentration, in other words a strengthening of the boroughs, is absolutely necessary, this should not be put in place at the expense of the central body of OECDFO. What international point of contact in operational terms will you keep to combat financial and economic crime, since it is rarely a national approach? I do not regret that these multidisciplinary teams are set up because they are necessary. On the other hand, and I will now tell the Minister of the Interior – because I have been told that he has forwarded this project to you, but that you have not yet given an opinion – I regret that the particular expertise and independence of these services cannot be taken into account and that operational services are being deconcentrated. This makes no sense in terms of optimisation, especially when the policy notes indicated that deconcentration would be the rule, "excluding capacity to fight corruption, serious forms of economic and financial crime, ICT crime and to seek fugitives". Commitments have therefore been made clearly in this area. I therefore regret this development, although I admit, of course, that the boroughs must be strengthened. There is no doubt about this, but there is no harm to the central body.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic174x.u38	Minister, perhaps there is still time! At the time of Mrs Milquet's reform, I had pointed to the risk of withdrawing labour force and expertise from central bodies. That is what is happening, unless the government changes its course. If you haven't seen her at lunchtime, I invite you to look online at Justice Claise's speech, which I fully agree with. Beyond the argument put forward by Mrs Matz, arguing that OECDFO is an international point of contact for crime phenomena that are often international, I will highlight two other arguments. The first relates to specialization in extremely complex subjects such as financial crime. There are no investigative experts in each district, able to decode tax fraud cases in particular. The second argument is the one highlighted at midday by Judge Claise, namely the speed of action allowed by a central body. The latter may act more quickly than a decentralized and less specialised body with regard to the seizure of financial amounts that would be the subject of an incorrect operation in terms of legality. Since the ongoing reform has not yet been finalized, I urge you to consider otherwise what would be the dismantling of OECDFO. I know that you are sensitive to the issue of combating tax fraud. You were Minister of Finance. I have asked you enough questions on the subject. Each time, you would answer my hand to my heart that it was something important to you. Now that you are the Minister of Justice, you can act in practice when the evil is not yet done. Having said that, I am concerned about the information you have given us in response to our questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic174x.u39	Mr President, Minister, the Youth Protection Act dates back to 1965. It has since been reformed and accompanied by the latest amendments to the Administrative Sanctions Act; it is part of an arsenal of societal responses to juvenile delinquency. However, the reflection has been going on for many years because the problem is persistent and still worrying. Indeed, on the basis of the annual statistics of the Public Prosecutor's Office, it appears that crime under the age of 14 is increasing. For the Brussels borough alone, an increase of 700 facts between 2013 and 2014 was noted. The increase is in fact significant in most age groups, both in the category of authors aged 12-14, 14-16, and 16-18. It also appears that the problem of drug trafficking is contributing to this increase. What steps have you and your colleague from the Interior taken to stem this growing phenomenon? In the context of the priority of the national security plan, are there any new specific collaborative measures between the Youth Prosecutor's Office and the police and preventive services planned or already agreed? Is an analysis of new legal means of repression against juvenile offenders under way in your department? What initiatives have been taken with the communities as part of their youth assistance skills?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic174x.u40	Mr.Pivin, the most recent figures are contained in the annual statistics of the Youth Prosecutors' Offices for 2014 presented at the press conference on 2 April 2015 of the College of Attorneys General. However, these statistics show a nuanced picture of juvenile delinquency. At the national level, there is a 4% increase in the number of "minors at risk" cases between 2010 and 2014, while the number of "crime-qualified" cases (FQI) shows a sharp decrease during the reference period. There was a decline from 82,944 IQF cases in 2010 to 58,914 cases in 2014, a decrease of 29%. The statistics also indicate that the 58,914 FQI cases in 2014 were related to 37,494 minors, slightly more than three quarters of whom were between 14 and 18 years of age. The figures also show a marked decline in offences against persons and offences against public safety and public order. It is true that the flow of drug crime statistics has increased by 14 per cent compared to 2010. As the statistics analysts suggest, these figures give an image of the crime recorded at the prosecutorial level and therefore mainly reflect the policy of investigating and prosecuting drugs. The fact that drug-related offences are being dealt with resolutely is in line with the policy of this government, which pays particular attention to this form of crime. With regard to consultation with the Department of the Interior and policy planning, I can tell you that work on the framework note "Integral Security" has begun. Next week will be the first meeting of the expert group to prepare a draft comprehensive security framework note for the Interdepartmental Conference on Security Maintenance and Management Policy, where the policy areas to be included in the comprehensive security framework note will be discussed with experts representing the different governments of the federated entities and the main stakeholders: the Public Prosecutor's Office, State Security, local authorities, the federal and local police. The approach remains the same. A large number of crime phenomena can be effectively and effectively dealt with only if a comprehensive policy is implemented, i.e. that addresses all aspects of the problem, and integrated, and is therefore followed by all actors involved in the security chain in the broad sense, from prevention and assistance to law enforcement and monitoring. The draft framework note is led by the Minister of Justice. Professors Brice De Ruyver and Cyrille Fijnaut were appointed to chair the expert group. The final product must be ready by the end of 2015. The framework note "Integral Security" will be developed in close consultation and collaboration with the Minister of the Interior, who is responsible for the direction of the national security project, which essentially incorporates the priorities and main points of attention of the integrated police structured on two levels. The SNP will be adapted to the framework note. As a result, both plans are developed in parallel. The drafting of this PNS is still ongoing. Preliminary analysis work, i.e. the drafting of the national police security image, is still under way and is expected to be completed only by the end of June. For the framework note too, we want to wait for this security image, although other sources are also taken into account: surveillance, European security image, barometer of justice, etc. The discussion on the phenomena which should be considered as priorities in the framework note or as phenomena which are part of the general problem of the functioning of the police has yet to take place. It is, therefore, too early to comment on this matter. It is recalled that, following the sixth reform of the State, the Communities have become competent for measures which may be taken in respect of minors who have committed an offence in accordance with article 9 of the Special Act of 6 January 2014. The federal government is no longer competent to determine what repressive means are appropriate for young offenders. It is true, however, that regular consultations are held with the Communities, particularly in the context of the meetings of the College of Prosecutors General and the Interministerial Conference on Chambers of Justice. The federal authority also remains competent for the execution of sentences imposed on minors, but not for the management of centres intended for the reception of these young people up to the age of 23. In order to resolve these issues well with the Communities, cooperation agreements are being prepared.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic174x.u41	Mr President, Minister, you visited the New Walk in Ghent on 6 May. It's always interesting to visit Ghent. The reason was less interesting this time, namely the riots of April 25, in which six guards were threatened and imprisoned. Eventually a police force had to be deployed and the rebellion was crushed a few hours later. As a result of these incidents, you had a meeting with the penitentiary officials. After your visit, you also announced that a solution would be found quickly for the obsolete infrastructure and for the very high workload. Hence the following questions. What problems came to light during the conversation with the board and the prison staff? What concrete measures will you take with regard to infrastructure? Have you already consulted your colleague in charge of the Buildings Management? Finally, the workload is, of course, not only limited to the prison of Ghent, but may also need to be looked at more widely. Can you give an update on the Global Plan?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic174x.u42	Mr President, I did indeed visit the prison in Ghent on 6 May. My intention was to talk to the penitentiary officers, the management and the security services about the incidents and congratulate them on their professional approach during the events. The talks have been very constructive and positive. It is clear that we need to consider how to avoid such incidents, even if they can never be ruled out. I was satisfied with the fact that the staff were not injured, despite the fact that some of them were very impressed. They too were very well received. In the framework of one of the working groups set up specifically with regard to the criminal institutions in the Sectoral Committee III Justice, a special procedure of conflict management and incident management has been developed, which has already been applied to a large extent in Ghent. However, it is intended to look at how we can ensure that the camera images in Ghent can also be viewed by the police when an incident occurs in the cellular complex. A number of smaller works are also planned in prison this year, such as the installation of extraction installations and the renovation of the monitoring post on one of the couriers. Work on rationalisation is progressing well. Both the government and the trade unions are constructive in finding solutions and ensuring that work can be done properly and safely despite the savings on staff. You will understand that I do not wish to give details of the talks until agreement has been reached.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic174x.u43	Minister, we are pleased that you are taking the problems seriously and that you have made the move to Ghent to speak with the management and staff there. We are, of course, also very pleased that the talks have taken place constructively and are looking forward to their outcome.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic174x.u44	Question No 4423 by Georges Gilkinet is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic174x.u45	Mr President, Minister, for a few years now, in addition to marriages of convenience, there has been another phenomenon, in particular the false recognition of children. A mother who is illegally resident in our country is looking for a man of Belgian nationality to recognise her child or children as a father, whether for payment or not. Conversely, a person who is illegally resident in the country also recognises the child of a Belgian to help himself to obtain a residence permit. This is residence fraud, but there is currently no clear legal framework to curb it. That's why I have a few questions. How is the exchange of data on the recognition of paternity currently going? How is it checked whether a man who wants to recognise a child in municipality X has not previously recognised a child in one or more other municipalities? What action will be taken if a person is suspected of false recognition? How can this problem be addressed in the short term but also in the long term?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic174x.u46	Mr President, Mrs Uyttersprot, at the moment civil servants do not have a specific legal basis for refusing false recognition. However, the public prosecutors do try to act by making use of the public order clause in Article 138a (1) of the Court's Code in order to have false recognitions destroyed. The problem of false recognition is more complex than the problem of bogus marriages and bogus cohabitations, because different situations may arise. For example, the distinction you make in your question between the mother who is illegally staying in the country and the asylum seeker who recognises a Belgian child is not insignificant. Under the rule of Belgian private international law, foreign law may apply in the second case. In addition, there are several parties, in particular the child, in the game of false recognition. As a result, the provisions relating to marriages of convenience and cohabitation can not simply be copied. Since this is a serious problem, I am currently examining, together with the Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration, what measures the government can take to counter such false recognitions. According to the Law of 15 December 2013 laying down various provisions on administrative simplification and the Royal Decree of 23 November 2014, as of 1 January 2015, the ascendants in the first degree and their descendants in the first grade are to be listed in the National Register, the Population Register and the Foreign Register. Cities and municipalities have a year, until 1 January 2016, to complete missing data. This measure provides civil society officials with useful information in the fight against false recognition.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic174x.u47	Minister, I share your view that this is a very complex matter. It is a difficult issue, because recognition must not be able to demonstrate a biological link, nor will there be any complaints from the parents concerned, because both of them, of course, derive an advantage, a stay advantage or a financial advantage. Those people aren't gonna come out of confession, of course. We may both agree that it is reprehensible that people use children to obtain residence papers. A legislative initiative is under discussion, and I note that you and your colleague, Secretary of State Francken, are communicating about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic174x.u48	Minister, on 6 May 2010, the Chamber approved an amendment to the law on co-ownership. The aim was to improve the transparency of co-owners' relations within a co-ownership and to modernise management. Three years ago some additional corrections followed, such as the incompatibility for syndici with the collection of rent arrears in the transfer of co-ownership. Nevertheless, the so-called apartment law remains for discussion. For example, the well-known Ostend construction contractor Bart Versluys was critical of the law during an interview. He stated, among other things, that one owner of a small 30 m2 studio can stop the demolition of an entire apartment building, while all other residents are in favour of the demolition of the building. He also gave a second example in which some co-owners from an apartment block of fifty apartments declared uninhabitable by the peace court stopped the demolition of the building. The other residents were also able to do little or nothing about this. It is logical that the existing legislation serves to protect individual co-owners from the pressures that other co-owners might have. However, how far should this protection go and what is the turning point? That is why Mr Versluys proposes to amend the law which provides that degradation, for example, is possible when 90% of co-owners are in favour of degradation. That is why I have the following questions for you, Minister. Can you confirm that the current law on co-ownership does indeed at present allow one co-owner to block the decision of all other co-owners? Can you support Mr Versluys' proposal to amend the law, so that unanimity is no longer necessary, but that only 90% of the owners can make a decision? Were you aware of the problems involved? Do you think there is any need for further changes to the law on co-owners in order to modernise them? If so, what problems do you wish to address? What steps will you take to tackle them and what is the timing for this?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic174x.u49	Article 577-6, Paragraph 8 of the Civil Code provides that decisions of the general meeting shall be taken by an absolute majority of the votes of the co-owners present or represented at the time of the vote, unless the law requires a qualified majority. As an exception to that basic rule, Article 577-7 (3) provides that decisions shall be taken unanimously by all co-owners on the full reconstruction of the property. This unanimity is required by the law in order to avoid lightly voting on important aspects. The impact of this decision on an individual co-owner should not be forgotten. After all, it could be the main residence. At the same time, it should be pointed out that Article 577-9 (7) of the Civil Code provides that where a minority of co-owners has irregularly prevented the general meeting from taking a decision by the majority required by law or by the statutes, any injured co-owner may bring an action before the court in order to replace the general meeting and instead take the necessary decision. The refusal of one co-owner can therefore be waived if it is unlawful. In this context, the doctrine of law seems to assume that account should be taken of the purpose of the association of co-owners. This objective consists exclusively of building and managing a building or a group of buildings. In a judgment of 9 October 2009 of the Peace Court in Bruges, it was stressed that, in accordance with Article 577-7, the association of co-owners is competent to judge the statutes of the co-ownership and the management and destination of the common parts, but that, as regards the private interests, each private owner continues to exercise the attributes of his property rights in accordance with Article 544 of the Civil Code. In that case, the peace court ruled on a minority of co-owners who opposed the demolition and reconstruction of an apartment-co-ownership. In the present case, the expert study showed that the rough construction was still in good condition and that the necessary repairs through a thorough renovation were certainly possible in a sustainable manner. On the basis of that information, the court ruled that the refusal to destroy was not unlawful and could not be regarded as an abuse of law. What has been set out above is difficult to reconcile with a proposal to amend the law in the sense that 90% of owners could take a decision on demolition. In any case, the law provides a solution in the event that a minority of co-owners unlawfully prevent the general meeting from taking a decision by the majority required by the law or by the statutes. To your third question, I can answer that my services have recently been in contact with the sector to discuss and analyse the recent legislative changes and, where necessary, to remedy them, as indicated in the coalition agreement. Having said that, however, no insurmountable application difficulties have been reported to us so far. If they still occur in the short term, I will not fail to address them as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic174x.u50	Minister, your answer was clear. You continue to pursue the current situation and refer to the legal possibilities that the majority of the owners may have vis-à-vis a minority who would possibly prevent and test a majority decision. The law is as it is, but the protection of one of course also sometimes causes legal abuse and, as a result, a lot of delaying effects or problems with pricing. I take note of your reply and I await what I will hear about the outcome of the discussions with the sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic174x.u51	Mr President, Minister, the presentation of the 2014 annual report showed that the number of files that Child Focus processes on the possible sexual exploitation of children through information and communication technology more than doubled last year. In particular, the large increase in cases of grooming involving a minor being approached by an adult for the purpose of performing sexual acts is remarkable. Last year, however, Parliament called the alarm on this issue and on 30 April 2014, a new law was published on the protection of minors against approach with the aim of committing offences of a sexual nature. Not only was there a penalty increase for offline grooming, also online grooming was now included in the Criminal Code. This is necessary because the bad effects on the child in the long term are not to be underestimated. They suffer from shame, fear or guilt and later find it difficult to build trust relations. With the individual penalty provision, our country now also complies with European rules such as the Lanzarote Convention. The proposal implies a European directive requiring Member States to take action to combat sexual abuse of children and child pornography by grooming. In the meantime, this law has been in force for a year. That's why I have a few questions. How many cases of grooming have there been since the law came into force? In how many cases can the perpetrators be identified? How many of these complaints were investigated or dismissed? If punishments were already pronounced, what were they? Were any of the perpetrators actually sentenced to prison?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic174x.u52	Mr President, Mrs Uyttersprot, with the laws of 10 April 2014 on the protection of children against cyber-lockers and against approach aimed at committing offences of a sexual nature (Belgian Official Journal of 30 April 2014), cyberlocks and grooming were punishable. Grooming is to approach and connect with children and build a relationship of trust from the practice to enable sexual abuse by removing or lowering the child's sexual or other thresholds and inhibitions. The aim of the offender with the meeting is therefore to commit certain sexual offences, namely sexual assault of the dignity, rape or public sexual desecration. If the perpetrator does not necessarily have sexual intentions, there may be another crime, in particular cyber lure, the lure of minors on the Internet with a view to committing a crime or a malpractice. The 43 files on grooming that Child Focus mentions in the annual report concerns the files that have been accessed by Child Focus through the e-safety helpline. I would like to point out that this helpline was set up by Child Focus for anyone who has a question or a problem with the use of the Internet by minors. This helpline is manned by specialised consultants from Child Focus. In essence, therefore, this is not a crime hotline and the files launched by Child Focus are not yet police or judicial files. Moreover, in such cases, it is often only when the perpetrator succeeds in ensuring that there is certainty about the unlawful intention. These laws only entered into force a year ago, in particular on 10 May 2014. Many figures are therefore not yet available. Unfortunately, the statistical analysts of the College of Attorneys General are unable to provide the figures you requested within the short timeframe of this oral question. Moreover, it is doubtful that such early legislation has already led to effective criminal convictions in Belgium, which would already be included in the latest updates of the sentencing statistics. I could not get confirmation of this either in the short term. However, it should be borne in mind that such events, committed by digital means, often occur on foreign servers, which makes it difficult to detect and prosecute and therefore requires intensive cooperation with the foreign authorities in order to identify the perpetrators and to carry out the necessary investigations. However, I would like to tell you that as far as the fight against child pornography is concerned, my services are in the process of preparing a draft law transposing the European Directive 2011/93 to combat sexual abuse and exploitation of children and child pornography. In this context, criminal law policy against sexual offences against children is strongly strengthened, as provided for in the government agreement. This also includes the new forms of crime committed on or using the Internet.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic174x.u53	Minister, I take note of the fact that complaints to Child Focus do not necessarily have any effect on police or procedural matters. A year is also very short to come to convictions. Of course evil has already happened when grooming is a fact. Because it is mostly children between 11 and 15 years old, especially girls, we must continue to pay attention to this, especially in terms of awareness-raising and prevention. Once the conviction has been received, of course, evil has often already been done. I also take note of the fact that you want to transpose the European directive on child pornography into Belgian legislation. That too is a step forward, for which I am grateful.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic174x.u54	Mr President, Minister, you recently reassured me by confirming the funding necessary for the appointment of nine additional imams who will work in prisons as Islamic advisers. As a reminder, Belgium currently accounts for only 18 for all its prisons, while it has been repeatedly pointed out that the prison remains a place of radicalisation. In the same vein, the press raises the usefulness of prison visitors, these volunteers who are listening to prisoners and – it will be better to repeat it rather than paraphrase it – "which are a window on the outside world" for these prisoners whose "discouragement or sometimes despair are often at the origin of signs of great fragility or isolation". It must be understood that they are more likely to join a radicalized group or continue to preach in this way. Minister, at a time when radicalism, in its various senses, sows terror, what about these volunteers? How are they recruited? Are they trained to deal individually and objectively with the cases they face? Are prison visitors, in any way, subject to a professional secret that would facilitate their communication with the prisoners visited? Does their mission provide for the absolute necessity of revealing to the prison director, for example, any suspicion of serious acts or acts? Finally, to date, how many prison visitors of prisoners for acts of radicalism or terrorism are estimated? Will this practice be widespread? If so, on what scale?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic174x.u55	Mr President, Mrs Özen, in practice these are prison visitors who fulfil an important social function, in particular because they help socially isolated prisoners to maintain relations with the outside world. In general, they are designated by NSOs and are granted access by headquarters. The Department of Justice does not train these volunteers. As regards professional secrecy and the need to disclose to the prison director any suspicion of serious acts and acts, the common law is applicable. There is no specific rule. There are no specific initiatives for radical or radicalized prisoners in which prison visitors are involved. I agree with the idea that prison visitors can, by breaking the isolation of some, counter certain phenomena of radicalisation and I want to thank them, in this way, for their daily work. In the same context, I encourage, as you know, an increased presence in prisons of religious advisers and lay moral counselors. There are no figures on the number of volunteers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic174x.u56	Minister, thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic174x.u57	Mr President, Minister, if it is in principle presumed that everyone is innocent until proven guilty, I understand that reading in the press regularly that an accused is released, notwithstanding the bundle of evidence that accuses him, as a result of an error of procedure, is appealing. Remember that our system provides guarantees that protect the rights of all parties to criminal proceedings (civil parties, victims and accused). In doing so, I wonder when legislative proposals are aimed at nullifying the fundamental principles that govern criminal procedure law. Minister, how is the existence or non-existence of an injury suffered by the accused in the case of a procedural error analysed, which would justify whether or not the illegality is covered? Is this debate not about breaking the safeguards that protect illegal prosecution? Isn't that incompatible with our rule of law? In order to avoid pitfalls, could certain formalities inherent in criminal proceedings not be eased?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic174x.u58	Dear Mrs Özen, you preach to a convinced person when you plead for an improvement of the legislation aimed at reducing the consequences of procedural errors and maintaining the guarantees essential to our rule of law, which are moreover protected by our Constitution and international conventions, including the European Convention on Human Rights. This exercise may be similar to the quadrature of the circle, but it is not a reason to give up on it. Your question does not specify which bill is intended to nullify the fundamental principles governing the law of criminal procedure. I will refer to the government agreement which states that the shortening, simplification and efficiency of criminal proceedings, as well as the desire to avoid as much as possible the statute of limitations and procedural errors will be central to the reform of the Code of Criminal Investigation. In view of the latest developments in the jurisprudence of the Court of Cassation and in order to guarantee legal certainty, it will be necessary to define legally the principles applicable to the admissibility of evidence in criminal matters. I made it clear in my policy statement and in the Justice Plan that I had the honour to present to you on 17 November and 18 March last, that the desire to prevent as much as possible the statute of limitations and procedural errors will be the main thrust of the reform project, and that the committee responsible for reforming the criminal procedure, which will soon be composed, will be asked to make proposals in this regard as soon as possible, because too often irregularities, often of a purely formal nature, lead to the inadmissibility of applications and the nullity of the whole procedure. In most cases, such a sanction is not proportional to the actual weight of the irregularity and the extent of the infringement of the rights of defence. In accordance with the Government Agreement, the procedure for the control of irregularities must be reformed as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic174x.u59	Minister, I thank you and take note of your detailed answer, which I will analyse with rested head.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic174x.u60	Mr President, Minister, the press reports on the increase in prostitution not limited to major cities such as Brussels, Liège or Antwerp. While prostitution as such does not constitute an offence, it is quite different in relation to pimping. To date, there are reportedly multiple networks from Eastern, Mediterranean and Sub-Saharan African countries engaged in human trafficking for this unfortunate and reprehensible purpose. The figures are overwhelming: eight out of ten prostitutes are said to be victims of a pimp. Minister, I was able to read that the fight against pimping was on track. I am glad, but what exactly is the situation? What are the practical means used? Are there any collaborations with the authorities of countries identified as "cradles" of trafficking in human beings?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic174x.u61	Mr President, Mrs Özen, Belgium has long established certain mechanisms to combat trafficking in human beings and sexual exploitation. If a person is sexually exploited, in the context of human trafficking, mechanisms exist to protect the victims. Belgium was also ahead of the adoption of these instruments, as the first procedures were already in place in the mid-1990s. Protection measures require a number of conditions to be met. In particular, victims must cooperate with the authorities and be well recognized as victims of human trafficking. The difficulties are many because operators tend to create situations where part of the money is returned to the victims, so that the exploitation is less obvious to establish or the victims refuse to cooperate with the authorities. Similarly, they may also use blackmail techniques for the family remaining in the country or other methods to create a strong dependency of the victim on them. This complicates the burden of proof. Some victims also refuse to cooperate and prefer to return to their country. Sexual exploitation has different facets. For example, there are networks in the Eastern countries. Some use violence more than others to coerce victims. Others will instead use subtle methods to enslave people. We know quite well the situation of the overboys, pimps who seduce young girls in a country of origin and offer to come and live with them abroad. Once the girl arrives, she finds herself exploited. There are also networks of African origin with the use of voodoo rituals to subjugate the victim. In order to investigate and investigate the acts of trafficking in human beings, a directive of the College of Attorneys-General and competent ministers provides, inter alia, for the designation of reference magistrates as "trafficking in human beings" in each judicial district. These magistrates are required to hold regular coordination meetings at the local level with the partner services. They constitute a network of expertise chaired by a magistrate who acts as the main coordinator. The new version of this directive has just come into force this May. At the political level, there is an interdepartmental unit for the coordination of the fight against trafficking in human beings, chaired by your servant, whose objective is to coordinate the work of the department. The work focuses, in a comprehensive way, on trafficking in human beings in its various components. Therefore, it is not only sexual exploitation that should be taken into account. There is also economic exploitation. The unit is in charge of drafting a new national action plan to combat trafficking in human beings and follows various initiatives, notably in terms of training of actors on the ground. Recently, training has been given to guardians in charge of unaccompanied foreign minors to improve the detection and protection of potential victims. Each department also contributes, depending on its expertise, to the initiatives that can be taken. For example, the Office of Foreigners is involved in programs in some countries of origin to provide information on risks and operating subsidiaries. In addition, the federal police act within the framework of supranational investigations and collaborate, in particular but not exclusively, with the European police services. Liaison officers are deployed under bilateral agreements. Twelve liaison officers are responsible for more than 12 countries and five for organisations such as Europol and Interpol. They serve as a channel of communication to facilitate the conduct of investigations of a transnational nature and are in contact, where appropriate, with the Central Trafficking in Human Beings Service of the Federal Police. I would also like to point out that the penalties were considerably increased by the law of 24 June 2013, which provides that fines are multiplied by the number of victims. In conclusion, I must point out that the 80 per cent rate that has been mentioned in the press is a high estimate that is being discussed in some international forums. This rate is not country specific. Other assumptions exist. It is therefore necessary to take this figure with all possible reserve and it is not possible to be affirmative in any way. This is an aspect that it is difficult to estimate. The image of the criminal network is sometimes also wrong. In fact, criminal microstructures are often involved more or less in contact with each other. But there is no automatic question of large networks, even if they exist.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic174x.u62	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your long reply, which I will call complete.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic174x.u63	Mr President, Mr Minister, I know that this is a matter that comes out of the communal sphere, but let me, however, stop on this wall that will divide a population. We're far beyond stigma! An open centre will welcome travellers to France. Located in a border area, these will be, at the request of the city of Mouscron or the French town hall, nothing less secure, limited in their mobility by the construction of a wall of more than two meters high! Those who recall that they are human beings - whom I wonder they would try to ghettoize - oppose those who justify the construction of this wall in order to reduce offences such as theft. That such an initiative does not become customary. I'm afraid we're trying to interpret it extensively. Mr Minister, in law, does this practice not deny the existence of the right to free movement of European Union nationals? Is it not also to deny the content of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, since its preamble provides that "the inherent dignity of all members of the human family and their equal rights shall constitute the foundation of freedom, justice and peace in the world"? Similarly, was the means used not paradoxical in view of the purpose pursued by the wall, if one refers to the requirement of article 29 of the Declaration, which provides that "the individual has duties towards the community in which only the free and full development of his personality is possible"?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic174x.u64	Mrs Özen, like you, I have read one or the other thing in the press and, like you, I have also understood that this particular issue is being followed at the municipal level in Mouscron. In addition, the succession of press articles shows some confusion as to the exact circumstances of the facts. Nor did I have access to the plans of the construction that aroused this emotion. You will understand that, in such a context, I am limited to a few general considerations. Finally, the work must, I suppose, take account of the urban planning rules in force, including in France. The free movement of persons is a major achievement of our area and must be preserved. Moreover, from a human rights point of view, we must combat intolerance, racism, xenophobia, etc. Of course, I condemn the constructions that would be dictated by these reasons. On the other hand, we must not lose sight of the fact that constructions can also be justified simply by privacy considerations or other legitimate purposes.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic174x.u65	Minister, thank you for your answer. The possibility of this construction is simply scandalous. In addition to the free movement of European Union citizens, they must also be guaranteed the right to respect for minority lifestyles even if we do not fully share this lifestyle.
