ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic065x.u1	Madam Minister, SNCB's new recent transport plan provides for a structural link between Antwerp and Hamant. In the longer term, the connection to the Dutch Weert can be extended. This would have been discussed in the past. Madam Secretary, are there any discussions planned with the Dutch authorities? In your policy statement, you have indicated that you attach great importance to consultation with the Länder and the rail links they have identified as a priority. One of these connections is the Iron Rhine. Will you raise this dossier during future contacts with the Netherlands? What is the current state of play in the Iron Rhine file?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic065x.u2	Madam Secretary, at the end of October, at the beginning of November, you received your first question about the Iron Rhine. You said in committee that you thought the Iron Rhine file was an important file that you would look at in the next few weeks. You would also start a discussion with the neighbouring countries concerned, the Netherlands and Germany. We are now at the end of January. What's the progress on the Iron Rhine file? Where are we on the talks with neighbouring countries? What progress has been made on the talks with the Länder?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic065x.u3	As far as my contacts with neighbouring countries are concerned, I did indeed promise you during the committee at the beginning of November that I would contact those responsible for the neighbouring countries concerned. I will inform you that Ms Catherine Trautmann, European coordinator of the Core Network Corridor North Sea Baltic, presented her work plan for this corridor at the end of December 2014. This plan, to be analysed by the Member States, signed on 22 February 2013, should allow the implementation of this corridor. In this work plan the IJzeren Rijn project is mentioned as a connection of great importance for the port of Antwerp and the Belgian hinterland to be considered, despite the fact that the project is not strictly part of the corridor. As far as the more factual elements are concerned, the extension of the Antwerp-Hamont link to the Dutch Weert is currently not foreseen in the new SNCB transport plan for the period 2015-2017. On the brink of the commission of independent experts, the analysis of the demand for passenger transport on this route Weert demonstrated in 2007 that this demand was very limited. As I replied to Mr Peter Vanvelthoven in response to a similar question in the Infrastructure Committee of 5 November last, it is necessary to first clarify the coverage of the alternative route in Germany before going back to the Netherlands. On 3 December, I had the opportunity to speak on the edge of the Transport Council about this dossier to my Dutch colleague Mr Schultz van Haegen and Mr Mansveld. New contacts with the Netherlands are on the horizon. Both in the context of the development of the European rail freight corridor North Sea Baltic linking the North Sea ports to the Eastern European countries and the previously defined trans-European transport network, the Iron Rhine is recognised as a missing link. Its realisation will increase the attractiveness of rail transport across that corridor and network. It is therefore in that framework that the project remains a constant topic of discussion at European level. Although the route of the Iron Rhine is not included in the core network of the TEN-T, it is on the list of pre-identified projects of that core network. It thus remains open to possible TEN-T funding of pre-studies.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic065x.u4	Madam President, Minister, thank you for your reply, in which I hear a lot of vague things. I would particularly like to refer to the position taken by Flanders. It is a dossier that has been dragging on for years and is very important, not only for Flanders but also for the rest of the country. Prime Minister Bourgeois has already taken very concrete initiatives. He's made contacts. Minister Weyts is doing the same thing right now. In mid-February 2015, a high-level working group with representatives of the different governments will be convened. You may be aware of that. I repeat, the file has been in ruins for a long time. The new Flemish government has the absolute ambition to finally speed up the process. After all, as I have already mentioned, it is very important for the Flemish ports. The IJzeren Rijn is also an important link in the SALK plan aimed at achieving the economic recovery of Limburg. Madam Secretary, I hope you will be able to cooperate positively from the Federal Government and SNCB on the dossier. To drag the issue even longer is detrimental to ports, to mobility in the region as well as to the economy and prosperity of all regions of the country. Thank you for your understanding.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic065x.u5	Madam President, Minister, I can only endorse the definition of the economic importance of the Iron Rhine. I note that in the two and a half months that have elapsed after your last reply, you have had contact with your Dutch colleagues, but it is not clear to me what this contact has resulted in. You apparently have not yet had contact with Germany, although you considered this to be a priority last time and felt that this was the first thing you should do.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic065x.u6	Monday.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic065x.u7	I would ask you to draw up for yourself and for Parliament a timing of discussions and decisions so that we can follow this up properly. In this way good agreements can also be made with the regions of the outermost regions and Flanders in particular. Limburg should also be involved because this dossier is important for the port of Antwerp, but especially in the context of the economic development agreed in the context of the SALK dossier.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic065x.u8	Mr Van Hecke, Mrs Lijnen is not coming.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic065x.u9	Madam President, we have heard that Mrs Lijnen is in Cambodia. I will therefore turn my question into a written question. I only know this for five minutes. I won't wait for her to come back from Cambodia.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic065x.u10	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Lijnen's 835 was postponed. Debates of the European Parliament 1246 by Mr Van Hecke was also postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic065x.u11	Madam Minister, in order to strengthen cooperation between the federal level of government and the Regions, the Executive Committee of Mobility Ministers was established in 2002. The task of the Committee is to examine the coordination of public transport and to give the Regions a say in the elaboration and implementation of the multi-annual investment plan of both SNCB and Infrabel. Despite the good intentions, the consultative body would rarely come together. How many times has that committee been together for the past five years? Are new meetings scheduled in the short term? What initiatives has the Committee taken? Have the conclusions and comments of that group already led to concrete actions? Does it make sense for the committee to meet on a more regular basis? Flemish Minister Ben Weyts would have already called for more frequent operation of the Committee, especially in the context of the multi-annual investment plan which is being prepared for the start-up phase. Were these investments already discussed with the Regions?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic065x.u12	According to the information I received through my administration, my predecessors never officially convened the ECMM during the previous legislature. However, in the preparation of the multiannual investment plan 2013-2025, inter-kabinette working groups came together within the framework of the ECMM. This led to a list of priority regional projects approved by the regional government and to be included in the 2013-2025 multiannual plan. As part of the preparatory work for a first revision of the multi-annual investment plan, two studies were commissioned and monitored by the ECMM. The first study aims to examine the practical arrangements for launching consultations on mobility issues between the different Länder of the country. The aim of the second study is to identify different ways of promoting service in and around Brussels. I am convinced that a more thorough dialogue between the federal level and the Länder is more necessary than ever, given the sixth state reform. I have already made the first contacts with my regional colleagues and will not fail to examine with them the practical arrangements for using the means of consultation such as the ECMM and the ICMIT as efficiently as possible. My wish is to launch, in the short term, a global debate on mobility within the ECMM and thus to work on an integrated public transport offering in which rail transport is registered. SNCB and Infrabel are currently preparing the first revision of the sliding multi-annual investment plan. Particular attention will be paid to the north-south link as well as to the investments identified as a priority by the Regions. It goes without saying that these proposals, as soon as they are known, will be discussed with my regional colleagues in order to reach a new cooperation agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic065x.u13	Madam Minister, I understand that, unlike your predecessors, you do want to bring more dynamism to this dialogue structure. We agree, as you have said on several occasions, that it is important to involve all the regions as much as possible, which is the only good way to achieve an effective and efficient integrated rail supply.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic065x.u14	Madam Secretary, this is a similar question. In February 2014, a draft Royal Decree regulating the representation of the Regions on the Boards of Infrabel and SNCB was adopted. Each Region may henceforth designate a representative on each of the two Boards of Directors. In total, therefore, there are six representatives, who will have the same powers and the same vote as the other members of the Council. I have two specific questions. Firstly, the Flemish Government has meanwhile appointed its two representatives. However, no KB has yet been issued to arrange the appointment. What's the reason for the delay? Secondly, in your policy statement you indicated that you attach great importance to good cooperation with the Regions. It is therefore appropriate to appoint the representatives as soon as possible. In-depth consultation with the Länder is essential, including with a view to drawing up a new transport plan. What is the state of play with regard to the Royal Decree? When will the appointment of the representatives be completed?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic065x.u15	I naturally intend to apply the sixth state reform loyally, including with regard to the representation of the Regions on the boards of Infrabel and SNCB. The Royal Decree to which you refer states that the Regions themselves propose the names of their representatives within these bodies. So far, only the Brussels-Capital Region has presented the names. Only when the three Regions have notified each of their proposals will I be able to evaluate the new composition and submit a proposal for the appointment of regional representatives to the King.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic065x.u16	Madam Minister, I understand that this is noisy because only the names of the Brussels-Capital Region have reached you. This certainly doesn't match the information I have. On 4 April 2014, two directors were appointed by the Flemish government, Filip Boelaert for the Board of Directors of SNCB and Herman De Bode for Infrabel. That is a decision of the government which was communicated on 7 April, although to your predecessor. Apparently, that's a noose somewhere. You are aware of this. I will ask my contacts at the Flemish level to formally inform you of this delegation again. I also suggest that you encourage those regions that are lagging behind to take up their responsibilities in this respect.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic065x.u17	Madam President, Minister, almost a year ago, SNCB launched a European call for tenders for a thousand new double-deck trains to replace part of the existing fleet by 2025 and to help cope with future passenger growth. The mandate is provided for in the SNCB Group's multiannual investment plan 2013-2025. The value of the contract, approximately EUR 3 billion, would immediately be one of the largest orders ever made by SNCB. My specific questions are as follows. What is the current state of the procurement procedure? What stage are we currently at? Do you have any idea when this will be completed? Secondly, after a year, there is no sign of a contract. Why can't the procedure be handled in a smoother and more efficient way? Will you take steps to enable faster handling in the future? Finally, the new trains would be gradually deployed from 2017. My question is whether this planning will still be carried out?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic065x.u18	Madam President, Mr Raskin, I am making a statement on the procedure. The Management Board approved the selection of candidates at its meeting on 12 May 2014. On the basis of the selection criteria mentioned, the association Bombardier- Alstom was selected as the sole candidate. On 18 July 2014, the Governing Board approved the broad lines of the specifications and asked for the terms of the specifications to be finalised. Once this has been done, the specifications will have to be submitted to the Governing Board for approval. It is not yet possible to determine exactly the end date of the procedure. That date will depend on the opinion of the Management Board on the continuation of the process, on the acceptable nature of the tender submitted by Bombardier-Alstom and on its compatibility with the investment grants available. The project is very important in both operational and financial terms. Moreover, the procedure is very complex, which means that there is a maximum of precautionary measures. Planning should also take into account two elements that emerged after the initial decisions on the project were taken. The procedure for an appeal to the Council of State for a declaration of non-use of the selection decision is still ongoing. The new budgetary framework laid down for Infrabel and SNCB could have an impact. However, SNCB and Infrabel must draw up an efficient plan before they can express their views on this point. The delivery planning of the material has not yet been negotiated with the selected candidate. The date on which the first vehicles will be delivered is therefore not yet fixed. However, it is unlikely that they will be able to be recruited in 2017.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic065x.u19	Madam Secretary, I was afraid of your conclusion. Everything has been dragging on for a long time and apparently the deadline will not be met. It is, of course, a democratic fact. However, we all need to find a way to make procurement procedures simpler, more transparent and more efficient. The problem leads to uncertainty. We hear complaints from overcrowded trains. If we can take steps towards a partial solution in this area, we must make more and better use of it. I also think I should ask you to keep the Infrastructure Committee informed of the state of play so that we can all monitor whether the necessary adjustments can be made within a manageable time.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic065x.u20	On Monday 15 December 2014 there was a national strike. Several provincial and other announced strikes preceded this. In the month of October, the traveler was also allowed to be bothered by some wild strikes. It now appears that irregularities were identified at the strike of 15 December 2014 and that access for unemployed workers in several trade union actions was refused by union representatives. The consequences of the strike are very severe, especially for travellers: congestion, mobility, economy and so on. In the meantime, ACOD submitted an indefinite strike notice. Were there any actual irregularities detected by the staff on strike? Would you mind explaining that for me? Can you give an estimate of the number of employees of the SNCB Group who wanted to stop? What is the loss of revenue of the SNCB Group as a result of the national strike? Has this strike caused any additional costs for the SNCB Group? What are the estimated costs of this?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic065x.u21	Mrs De Coninck, there were no irregularities among the SNCB staff who stopped working on 15 December. There were 6 152 strikers at SNCB and 3 072 at Infrabel. In total, SNCB lost 2.3 million euros in revenue due to the national strike of 15 December 2014, of which 1,189 million euros less revenue from national passenger traffic, 0.463 million euros less income from international passenger traffic and 0.593 million euros less variable traffic related allowances. Infrabel registered a loss of revenue of EUR 906 446 corresponding to the charge which could not be invoiced to railway operators as a result of the strike of 15 December and the unavailability of the infrastructure resulting from it. SNCB has incurred 18 250 additional costs as a result of the strike on 15 December.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic065x.u22	Madam Minister, I remember in particular that there were just over 9 100 strikers in both groups together. Knowing that there are 34 000 employees on the railways, about 27% of the staff have effectively ceased working. We therefore believe that it is urgent to work on a proposal on the provision of services. With such a large number of employees, I believe that a service can certainly be organized on strike days as well.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic065x.u23	Madam Chair, Minister, Infrabel's 2015 budget seems to have recently been approved by its Board of Directors. In any case, this is what the free press – and let us praise the freedom of the press in this country – teaches us. Announcing a reduction in expenditure of 170 million euros for 2015 compared to 2014, Infrabel's press release announces inter alia cuts in internal costs and recruitment. As far as staff are concerned, Infrabel says it wants to save 25 to 30 million euros as a "very exceptional" way by slowing down the pace of recruitment. My first question is therefore the following. How can this measure be exceptional, when the savings requested at Infrabel by the government are structural and recurrent? On the other hand, the same communiqué refers to measures which seem to us to be unstrategic in the long term, and which deserve further explanation. Could you tell us about the projected savings on the postponement of the maintenance of buildings and works of art and the postponement of the acquisition of equipment? Finally, Infrabel unmistakably announces that "several large construction sites will also be slowed down. As far as the south of the country is concerned, work on the modernization of the Namur-Luxembourg axis, the introduction of the Ottignies-Bruxelles line of the RER to four lanes, will undergo a slippage of which it is still prematurity to define the extent." Three questions arise. Is it normal that the largest and most emblematic construction sites in Wallonia are apparently sacrificed by Infrabel on the basis of savings? These projects are of high priority for Wallonia and the RER cannot be further delayed. The press release refers to investment savings for the south of the country. Can we know what projects will be affected by the economies in Brussels and Flanders? I am surprised by a Dutch version of Infrabel's press release, which does not correspond entirely to the French version. This does not seem to be a translation quality problem. This paragraph detailing the investment projects that will be slowed down in the south of the country has simply disappeared from the Dutch version. How do we interpret this difference between Infrabel's communications in both languages? Or should we make it even more intriguing? But I am not going to make any further progress in this first intervention.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic065x.u24	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the savings measures taken by Infrabel concern a series of one-off budget cuts, as well as a structural reduction in its operating costs. The balance between these two types of measures for 2015 was strongly conditioned by the possibility of short-term budget cuts. In the longer term, Infrabel may consider creating more structural savings. At this stage, it would be somewhat premature to say whether any of the measures envisaged would indeed be recurrent. This will be considered as part of the work to review an efficiency plan and the report of the working groups that will normally be communicated to you in mid-2015. Some infrastructure renewal work has been postponed, while ensuring that all network features are maintained. Further carry-overs were also envisaged on the means of production, given the relatively low short- and medium-term critical nature of this type of investment. These include the acquisition of heavy equipment, renovation of buildings and certain computer developments. Large Walloon yards were only very poorly impacted by savings measures taken by Infrabel in 2015. Proportional moderation on infrastructure renewal has also been applied in Flanders and Brussels. Efforts are therefore spread across the country, according to the traditional distribution key. No particular interpretation should be given to the differences between the two press releases, which are ultimately mere editorial choices.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic065x.u25	Madam President, Minister, first of all I would like to thank you for your answer. However, as a parliamentarian, I wonder about access to the budget of Infrabel and SNCB. I will not dwell on the matter. I would probably have the opportunity to come back to this point. But it must be noted that the parliamentarian I am does not have legal access to Infrabel's budget, which seems to have been adopted by his board of directors. The same applies to SNCB. I know that I am speaking here as part of my reply, but I think it is worth questioning this state of affairs. Still, I totally depend on Infrabel's press release in both languages. As a historian who developed his critical mind, I tried to compare the two texts. I have come to the conclusion that there is indeed a different editorial choice. This is a bit intriguing when you don't know the reality of the budget. I therefore draw the attention of all my parliamentary colleagues to the work that we are doing, including questioning the government. In this case, we are faced with public companies on which we do not have much control or even transparent information on their approved budgets. Since then, SNCB has also approved its budget in the Board of Directors. The parliamentarians we are are totally dependent on the information that these companies want to transmit to us in one or the other language. I hope that there is only one budget for SNCB. Maybe one day we'll find out.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic065x.u26	We did ask for the budgets, but we were told that they were confidential. The secretariat cannot obtain them. However, as hearings of our delegated administrators, which we see regularly, are scheduled, we will have the opportunity to ask some questions on this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic065x.u27	Madam President, Minister, SNCB will have to save EUR 663 million by 2019. Such savings will certainly have an impact on Infrabel's multi-annual investment plan. For example, you have already announced that large-scale investment savings will be made in 2015. I have a number of specific questions about this. Are there any rail infrastructure projects in the Flemish Region whose implementation will be delayed? Are there similar demand projects that will be postponed and deleted? Finally, can it be ensured that all railway safety projects are fully implemented? In this context, the Automatic Train Control System ETCS plays an important role. What is the state of progress of the project?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic065x.u28	The savings measures taken by Infrabel in the context of the preparation of its investment budget for the 2015 working year have had no impact on the placing in service of specific projects in Flanders or on priority projects in Flanders which are not foreseen for 2017. There has never been any need to save on investments linked to the improvement of operational safety on the rail network in which the ETCS is part. As far as Infrabel is concerned, the deployment of the ERTMS is on schedule. By the end of 2014, 899 kilometres of track were equipped with the ERTMS level 1. In 2015, 305 kilometres will be rolled out so that the corridor C will be fully rolled out by the end of 2015 as provided for in the ETCS-Masterplan and a train can run in ETCS from Athus to the port of Antwerp. This represents about 19 % of the network. ERTMS projects relating to the SNCB rolling stock shall be carried out as planned. A manufacturer has been appointed for the 449 motor sets to be equipped with the ETCS and the studies have been launched. The prototype for the vehicles of the type break shall be ready in the course of 2016. Technical and commercial discussions with Alstom have begun with regard to the activation of the ETCS on the I11 carriages and the T13 locomotives with a view to ordering. The type approval process for the prototype is ongoing. At the beginning of 2016, certificates for retention will be issued and the amending texts for the M6 steering carriages will be launched. As regards the activation of the ETCS on the T18 locomotives, the approval and start-up of the amending texts are expected in the course of 2016.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic065x.u29	Very briefly, ma'am, thank you for your reply. We're absolutely on the same page. I think I can speak for a lot of fellow Members when we say that these savings should not hinder planned safety interventions at any time. We are all following that up, but I do not think there will be much conflict about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic065x.u30	Madam Minister, my question concerns the accessibility of the port of Ghent by rail. We all know that the port of Ghent is one of the most important economic attractions for the region of Ghent, but also for the Flemish region as a whole. Some 70 000 people work in the port area of Ghent, and yet it is almost only accessible by car. There is very little public transport for the many workers in the port area. In Ghent itself, in the business world as well as in the political world, there is a call for this area to be opened up for passenger transport by rail. Already in 2009, a study showed that 15% of workers in the channel area can be helped with a train connection. It is specifically about railway 204, which connects Ghent and Zelzate and where passenger transport should be made possible. As a Flemish priority, this opening is included in SNCB's federal plan. Hence my question. Together with me, the Ghent community and the port of Ghent await the answer. Was this Flemish priority on the port of Ghent actually registered in the planned investments or actions of SNCB for the coming years? If so, what is the timing? What practical steps should be taken to this end? If not, what are the arguments? Can we do it in the longer term?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic065x.u31	Madam Minister, our colleague has already outlined the problem. Rail line 204 runs through the port area of Ghent and connects Ghent to Zelzate, but at the moment that line is only used for freight transport. The 70 000 people working in port for dozens of companies depend on their own transport. There are hardly any bus connections. In short, people can only travel by car or bicycle, which is not obvious. The opening of line 204 to passenger trains would significantly improve the accessibility of the port area. Also for the accessibility of the Ghent districts on the right bank of the Ghent-Terneuzen canal it would be a significant step forward. We have asked this question several times in the past together with the port community and the Ghent City Council. The Flemish government has included the development of railway line 204 as a priority in its railway strategy. Madam Minister, it is important that a study carried out by SNCB in 2012 shows that the passenger train on that line could be profitable. I think this is incredibly important. So I have a few questions. What plans does SNCB have in this respect? Secondly, what is your position on this dossier? Are you actually prepared to push the cart to enable passenger transport on line 204? The tracks are here and the customers are there. What are you waiting for?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic065x.u32	The current multi-annual investment plan 2013-2025, approved by the Council of Ministers on 19 July 2013, for a total amount of €26 billion, provides for an envelope of €2.5 billion to be allocated to specific projects, taking into account the priorities of the Regions. Flanders indicated its priorities to the Minister on 16 July 2013. The project on reactivation for passenger transport of railway line 204 Gent-Zelzate and the connection with line 58 Gent-Eeklo was indeed defined by the Flemish Region as one of those priority projects. The Council of Ministers of 19 December 2013 decided to carry out the selection of regional projects, taking into account their investment and operating costs, their socio-economic impact and their alignment with the federal rail strategy. This exercise was launched by the FPS Mobility in the autumn of 2013. Cooperation with the Flemish administration is still ongoing. In the first months of 2015, SNCB and Infrabel will have to draw up an efficiency plan. This will allow the resources available for investment to be determined. Only then will a full review of the multiannual investment plan 2013-2025 take place. In the preparation of Infrabel's 2015 investment budget, priority was given to projects that contribute to the maximum level of safety of the rail network. We note that overall the impact on East Flanders has been limited.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic065x.u33	Madam President, Minister, thank you for the answer. However, the Ghent region is looking forward to the concreteisation of the plan. As has been said, it has been given as a regional priority. You have given the steps that have already been taken. Nevertheless, it remains awaiting a genuinely concrete finalisation of the dossier. However, I will continue to insist that it progresses in the near future so that we can make real progress in making the port area of Ghent accessible by public transport.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic065x.u34	Madam President, Minister, we look forward to drawing up the efficiency plan. I'd like to know the timing of it. You mentioned the first months of 2015. I would also like to advocate the link with the priorities of the Flemish Region and a priority approach and priority treatment by you, because the dossier will represent a significant improvement for travellers. It is also a priority of the current government to make it easier for businesses to use employment and jobs. I know, of course, that the impact on the safety of freight and passenger transport must be looked at. A balance must be sought in this respect. Nevertheless, this should not pose a problem in implementing the plan in concrete terms. So I look forward to the timing of the efficiency plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic065x.u35	Madam Minister, in fact, the two questions may be very close to each other. After all, we have invested enormously in bicycle paths in the port of Zeebrugge. That might be a tip for the port of Ghent: a lot of people are using an electric bike more and more to get to work. A safe harbour also has safe bike paths. That might be something to take to the Flemish government. The use of electric bicycles indeed increases, not only among our seniors, but also among young people and people who go to work with the electric bicycle. However, we notice that these electric bicycles sometimes reach speeds of more than 25 kilometers per hour. Research has shown that models are also offered for sale in our country which reach more than 25 kilometers per hour, up to even 45 kilometers per hour. We also see a sharp increase in the number of accidents involving cyclists. The BIVV pointed out that the popularity of the electric bicycle may be related to this. Madam Minister, should we not even consider whether there is a legal vacuum here? The speed of the electric bike can affect safety, what is your position on this? Do you think that initiatives need to be taken to get more regulation on this?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic065x.u36	Madam Minister, Mr Dumery has outlined the situation very well. There are many questions regarding the speed of electric bicycles. Earlier I asked questions about the quality of the electric bikes, because that was also a problem: a lot of complaints came in to the FPS Economy. The inspection has carried out checks on the quality of bicycles and batteries, so action is already being taken in this area. Of course, my questions are now about the speed of the electric bicycles and the safety on the road. I would have liked to know what specific problems have already been identified in relation to the violation of the road code by cyclists with an electric bicycle. Do you have an overview of the number of electric bicycles in Belgium? The figures vary. Do you also have an overview of the number of accidents involving electric bicycles in the last three years? Do you know anything about speed and safety in traffic? Will you take action for better protection, both from the cyclists themselves and from the other drivers? It is always customizable when suddenly an electric bike arrives. We are sometimes not used to the fact that a bike can drive so fast and catch up with us so quickly. I would like to know your views on this and whether you will take action.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic065x.u37	Madam Secretary, according to certain sources, 50 000 electric bicycles were sold in our country in 2013. Last year, the overall share of electric bicycles in our bicycle market would have increased to 23% of total 430 000 sold bicycles, i.e. slightly less than 100 000. My fellow Members have already referred to the increasing number of bicycle accidents. An initial administrative check by the FPS Economy shows that very few controlled electric bicycles are in order with the administrative obligations. A lot of models would go too fast. The batteries were already mentioned here. The FPS Economy announced to you and your fellow Minister Peeters to ask for an extensive technical investigation. Madam Secretary, I have the following questions. Is it true that the popularity of the electric bike is still increasing? Can you confirm the numbers I mentioned? Was the FPS Economy's demand for a comprehensive technical investigation already put on the table? What is the state of play? How do you respond pending the outcome of that investigation?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic065x.u38	Mrs Lahaye-Battheu, there are no official figures available on the number of electric bicycles sold. However, we cannot ignore the fact that electric bicycles appear more and more in the street. Due to the growing success of fast electric bicycles, my administration is currently looking, in consultation with the Regions and in consultation with Belgian and European authorities and interest groups, sellers and importers of electric bicycles, the insurance sector and the BIVV, at which aspects of the traffic regulations might it be appropriate to equate certain types of electric bicycles with a bicycle. In accordance with a new European regulation, my administration is preparing the organisation of market surveillance for two- or three-wheeled vehicles and quadricycles, which include fast electric bicycles. The FPS Economy, which is responsible for market surveillance of electric bicycles with a maximum speed of less than 25 km/h, has already been contacted to harmonise first of all the communications to the public on electric bicycles and for a future control campaign of electric bicycles, so that electric bicycles with a maximum speed of less than 25 km/h can be checked at the same time as electric bicycles with a speed above 25 km/h. Both the current European Directive and the new Regulation replacing the European Directive from 1 January 2016 provide that an electric bicycle that can reach speeds of more than 25 kilometres per hour using an engine is a moped. If the speed is limited to a maximum of 50 kilometres per hour, one may choose between the lane and the cycle path, provided that the other road users on the cycle path are not put at risk. This ensures that drivers of fast electric bicycles can choose the place on the public road where they feel safest, depending on the traffic conditions, their driving skills and the desired speed. If there is a higher speed limit, they must follow the cycle path. The difference in speed between the other vehicles and an electric bicycle is, after all, too large in those places. No specific figures on electric bicycles are available to obtain information on the number of accidents involving electric bicycles. However, the road accident form has been modified so that the police can indicate when an electric bicycle is involved in the accident. It is the intention of the police to make use of this possibility from the beginning of 2015.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic065x.u39	Madam Minister, I understand that there will certainly be an initiative to clarify the legislation, in consultation with the various interest groups involved in cycling and traffic. Measuring is knowing. The traffic forms have been modified. Statistics could be a sign of something. At the same time, it must be recognised that the feeling of insecurity shifts to the other users of the cycle path, which is the other cyclists, when an electric bicycle, which makes less noise than a moped, passes through a fairly fast cycle path. I am certainly looking forward to the legislative initiative.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic065x.u40	Madam Minister, I hear positive elements in your reply. It's a good thing you're sitting around the table with all the sectors. There are many aspects to this. With the FPS Economy you talk about the product in itself and the product standard. The safety, road code and insurance aspects are also important enough to bring to the table. It is not clear to me whether there is a deadline for consultation. Can you clarify that? It is important that you say that the different types of awareness are aligned. In this context, you will also contact the FPS Economy and your colleague, Minister Peeters, to coordinate the information with consumers and users of bicycles. That is not the case at the moment.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic065x.u41	Minister, I come back to a matter on which my party intervened on several occasions in the previous Parliament. At the beginning of November 2013, the Walloon government decided to consider the rail connection project with Charleroi airport as a priority project for the Walloon rail sector in SNCB's Priority Investment Plan. This would include the construction of a surface station, which will require a connection to line 124 Charleroi-Luttre-Brussels and a connection to the Nord Fleurus-Ottignies line, with an operationality set at 2027. Infrabel had estimated the work at EUR 480 million and the expenditure was included in the budget estimates. The Walloon Government did indeed confirm this project in its declaration of regional policy. It is clear that the absence of a rail link could constitute a handicap for the development of the airport, whose prospects for increasing passenger traffic are substantial by 2020. The managing director of Charleroi airport had, last July, pointed out that a station could be considered in cul-de-sac since the work was not announced until 2026-2027. In view of the rail links already granted to Brussels-National airport, it would most certainly be appropriate not to ignore the potential improvement in the service to Charleroi airport. As a result, Minister, what is the status of the rail connection project at Charleroi airport as set out in the PPI? However, would temporary arrangements be planned to curb the influx of new passengers to the airport, if work or investment were to be delayed?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic065x.u42	Madam President, dear colleague, Infrabel's 2013-2025 multi-annual investment plan, formalized in 2013, plans to allocate a supplementary budget to enable the implementation of regional priority projects which are gradually being made available over the period 2017-2025. Priority projects selected by the three Regions must be subject to a socio-economic assessment led by the Mobility and Transportation FPS, as requested by the federal government under the previous legislature. This evaluation is under way. At the same time, an update of the multiannual investment plan is to be carried out in 2015 in order to incorporate the state of play of the various infrastructure projects and the new investment prospects, taking into account the budgetary context of the time.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic065x.u43	Minister, you're talking so fast that we don't have time to follow you. If the trains went as fast as you, what would the SNCB be? Still, I thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic065x.u44	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic065x.u45	Unlike me, you have no mercy on translators.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic065x.u46	You can read the transcript, Mrs. Caprasse.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic065x.u47	However, I am not entirely satisfied with the minister's answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic065x.u48	Madam President, Madam Minister, I do not intend to ask a question every time in a city council, even if it is that of Antwerp, a motion has been approved. In the end, the motion will have a greater regional impact on the accessibility of the city itself and on traffic congestion in the whole region. The coalition agreement states that one wishes to see whether a regional network or GEN network around other cities such as Antwerp, Ghent, Charleroi and Liège can be developed. If that is the intention, then I find it difficult to understand, as the motion of the Antwerp City Council shows, that, for example, railway lines which might belong to that GEN network structure would be dismantled. It cannot be said that one wants to see whether a GEN network can be developed around Antwerp and at the same time reduce the capacity already available for that GEN network. I have already said, in the context of the mobility problems surrounding Antwerp, that a further reduction in the supply of trains in that region is detrimental. What is the view on whether or not to develop or phase out line 52 within the framework of that Antwerp GEN network?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic065x.u49	The closure of lines is not on the agenda. A structural improvement of line 52 is not planned. See below for future operation of this line. SNCB informs me that on 22 December last, a meeting took place between the GEN service of SNCB and the city of Antwerp, represented by the vessels of Mobility. SNCB stresses the constructive, ambitious but also pragmatic nature of this meeting. This meeting was the culmination of a first phase in which contacts were made with the four major agglomerations of Antwerp, Ghent, Liège and Charleroi. SNCB has proposed the context, approach and initial implementation planning of the GEN study. The operation of line 52 will be studied by SNCB as part of the roll-out of a suburban railway supply in the Antwerp area. SNCB also informs me that the study on the feasibility of lightrail includes the operation of line 52 through a connection between Zottegem and Aalst, Dendermonde, Puurs and Antwerp. SNCB undertakes to take into account all the parameters that are essential for the development of a GEN with optimum suburban control by rail.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic065x.u50	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. Good intentions have been expressed, but it is important to clarify them. If one says to study this, one must certainly maintain the existing structure and not reduce it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic065x.u51	Madam Chair, Minister, parliamentary life is wonderful that we always find ourselves in different backgrounds with great happiness. Yesterday, I was at the side of the minister for the signing of the Benelux Treaty. Among the three priorities were safety and mobility. As chairman of the Benelux PS Group, Madam Minister, it is a pleasure that during this year we will be able to meet and exchange in order to work to improve this mobility, much of which is being discussed because of this new SNCB transport plan. In December, the regional press in Wallonia picarde and members of committees who came to meet me – not because it is Daniel Senesael but because as a parliamentarian, we have to relay the pulse of the people in this assembly – said that the windows of the station of Mouscron would be abolished, in addition to the various measures that have already impacted this station of Mouscron following this transport plan Mrs Galant, as minister and also as mayor in office, you know that we are very quickly worried in a region when we change habits, especially when it comes to mobility, whether urban or rural. Madam Minister, what is the intention of SNCB with regard to this abolition, since the closure of Herseaux station is already effective? There is concern in the region about the willingness of SNCB and the follow-up that will be given to this concern. This causes the ire of many commuters, whom one hears when one takes the train. I know you did it before you were a minister, and when you first became a minister, you realized it. Minister, I would like to ask you two very clear and specific questions. What about the future of the Mouscron station? Do you invalidate the long-term closure of the ticket offices at this station? I hope so. Are these mere unfounded rumours? Following your discussions with SNCB, can you guarantee the sustainability of this station and its windows?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic065x.u52	I assure you, honourable Member: for SNCB, the closure of the ticket office at Mouscron station is not on the agenda. SNCB, on the other hand, calls on local authorities to pay more attention to the use of station facilities and their surroundings, as some disruptive individuals are likely to dissuade customers from using these services. This may not be the case for Mouscron, but I know that Mr Jo Cornu wrote to your colleague Mr Rudy Demotte, the mayor of Tournai, because there are disruptions around the station in Tournai which are increasingly problematic and which are dispelling potential customers of the station.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic065x.u53	Madam President, I am reassured by the position of the Minister, who assures us and confirms that the closure of the station window is not on the agenda. How could the various persons responsible for rail and rail safety intervene and collaborate effectively with the police services concerned?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic065x.u54	That is precisely what the managing director, Mr Cornu, is asking, namely that there be genuine cooperation between the various security services, the local police, the railway police, Securail, because there are really problems, especially in Tournai. I don't know why Tournai.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic065x.u55	Madam Minister, allow me to ask a very local question, but this is about people using the train every day. The new timetable came in mid-December. The train passengers could easily consult the new scheme via the website or on the yellow posters in the stations. Those who weren't so handy with a computer could also ask for a paper trail at the counter. I got the remark from a train traveller from Bilzen that he couldn't get a railway book at his station. Time has given me an answer to my first question, and you no longer have to answer it. My second question remains relevant. The introduction of a new timetable is preceded by a long period of preparation in order to minimise chaos. By means of railway booklets, passengers can consult in advance what changes have been made to the route. Why weren't the books available faster in the stations and why were they still not available in some cases at the time of my question, mid-December? I cannot imagine that such events could occur in a process so long prepared. That really needs to be avoided.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic065x.u56	This year the railway booklets were offered for sale at all stations in Belgium from 2 December. More than four hundred thousand line leaflets were printed. This high number was apparently not enough, because demand was greater than supply. In some stations of the country they were very quickly exhausted. In the meantime, SNCB has published new line leaflets that should be available in the week of 20 January. SNCB is aware that this new timetable is a major change for passengers. Since 22 September, therefore, in addition to the railway booklets, it has provided a large number of other information channels with timetables on which passengers can consult a route, such as www.nmbs.be/travel planner, with a personalized brochure that people can print themselves, mobile apps and info at the counters. At the same time, there has been a large-scale information campaign since 22 September.What changes for me? Discover it at www.nmbs.beyoung throughout Belgium. From 2 December additional channels were made available: the railway booklets in all stations, the railway booklets online, the blue posters and info stands in the main stations throughout Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic065x.u57	Madam Minister, I do not doubt that SNCB has done everything in its power to inform as many people as possible through various channels. I'm totally in favour of that, too. However, we must take into account a number of categories of people, such as disadvantaged people and older people, which are limited to those railway books. We absolutely must avoid losing sight of this category of people next time. Customer friendliness is the essential word here, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic065x.u58	Madam Minister, it is stated on the SNCB website that the railway company will not compensate for the disruption of train traffic during the national strike day of 15 December 2014. In the provincial strikes, which also caused a great deal of inconvenience, rail passengers could, under certain conditions, claim compensation. How does SNCB justify its decision to apply a different compensation scheme to the national strike than to the provincial strikes? Is this decision not contrary to SNCB's transport conditions? Is SNCB not obliged to reimburse train passengers if they have a subscription or ticket purchased before the strike was announced to the public? Can you guarantee that passengers who fulfil the compensation conditions and have applied for compensation will still receive compensation?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic065x.u59	Madam President, the strikes of 24 November, 1 December, 8 December and 15 December were announced well in advance and were intersectoral. For the strikes of 24 November, 1 December and 8 December it was impossible for SNCB to predict the exact situation for any traveller whose train was abolished or delayed on the basis of the province in which he was in or crossed during his train journey, given the configuration of the network and the system of turn strikes. As a result, SNCB compensates the applicants. For the 15 December strike, the consequences for rail traffic could be foreseen. There would be no train and no measures could be taken to make a transport alternative possible, as the whole country would be flat. In view of the intensity of the situation, it was impossible for SNCB to maintain the transport services that day. SNCB therefore does not compensate the passengers concerned. The usual compensation scheme applies for 24 November, 1 December and 8 December and not for the 15 December strike.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic065x.u60	Madam Secretary, those who are entitled to compensation must be able to receive that compensation. Words and phrases can always be screened to say that certain people are not entitled to compensation. I do not think it is possible for travellers to be compensated for inconvenience on some strike days and not on other strike days. The European Union also explicitly states that travellers are entitled to compensation if they are faced with a delay of a certain duration. In situations of force majeure, travellers are not entitled to compensation. In my view, a strike is not a force majeure. I have also noted that the ombudswoman for rail passengers, Mrs van der Linden, has already stated that she does not understand what SNCB's decision is based on. I therefore think that we should question this again.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic065x.u61	Madam President, Minister, I raised this question because you said at a certain point in the budget debate that the financial situation in SNCB is even worse than you had previously thought. You literally said the accounts weren't closed properly in the past. I gave you the right to do so immediately, because I submitted questions on this matter back in 2011. I was aware at the time that the company auditors did not want to approve the accounts. My argument was that the then CEO had used money for public services for commercial purposes. This was also established by the auditors. The European Commission has also made a number of statements along these lines. I'll come to my questions. What additional hidden debts have you discovered? Do you intend to file a complaint on the Board of Directors through your government commissioner for irregularities in the accounts? In that case, who are you fishing for?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic065x.u62	Madam President, the questions raised will be dealt with in the context of the design of the efficiency plan to be drawn up by SNCB during the first half of 2015.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic065x.u63	Madam President, with such an answer, I am convinced that the agenda will be closed by 5 p.m. Madam Minister, when a minister in office makes a statement in a budget debate about the incorrect closure of the accounts, this has implications. I must then do my full job as a Member of Parliament and ask questions about that ruling. I will perhaps ask the question in writing again in response to the efficiency plan, but this still deserves further follow-up.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic065x.u64	Madam Minister, my question is in line with Mr Geerts' question. During the budgetary debate in the Chamber, you pointed out that the financial situation of SNCB was even worse than thought. You also denounced abuses, such as the activities of subsidiary Eurostation in exotic places such as Sri Lanka. I am pleased that you are vigilant about the state of SNCB and that you are aiming for full transparency of the financial flows. Furthermore, I support the position to be very critical of the many subsidiaries and to focus on core tasks. It is more and more likely that, when the two-tier structure was set up, namely SNCB and Infrabel, there have been unclear and possibly even incorrect financial matters. That is why I have the following specific questions for you. How did the operation with regard to the layout of the initial balance sheet of SNCB/Infrabel go? How did the deleveraging process continue for which SNCB-Holding remained as a legal form? Is there any sign of derailments in debt disposal? I am thinking, for example, of toxic credits, which have led to the current financial situation. How were all the assets and liabilities of the former NV SNCB transferred to the new structure? How will you deal with the abuses, as you pointed out, at Eurostation and, in particular, in exotic areas?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic065x.u65	Madam President, the complete restructuring of the SNCB Group took place in close cooperation between SNCB, SNCB-Holding and Infrabel and took place in several steps. Firstly, on the simplified merger of the parent-subsidiary between SNCB-Holding and SNCB, with SNCB-Holding as the acquiring company, the following. In the light of that merger, SNCB's full capital was transferred to SNCB-Holding without the issue of new shares in continuity and under general title. Taking into account the financing undertaken by foreign financial institutions, the legal form of SNCB-Holding was retained. The merged company took the name SNCB from that time on. The second point is the partial division of the new SNCB into Infrabel. In the light of that partial division, part of the assets of the new SNCB were transferred to Infrabel in continuity and under general title, against the granting of new Infrabel shares to the shareholders of the new SNCB. That split made the following possible. First, to transfer to Infrabel the assets and liabilities necessary for its new activity perimeter, as envisaged by the Act of 30 August 2013. Secondly, in order to distribute the group's financial debt entirely held by SNCB-Holding in the former holding structure and to be distributed between the railway undertaking and the infrastructure manager. Thirdly, to decouple the holding held by SNCB-Holding in Infrabel through the transfer of the full share stake to Infrabel. Fourth, to transfer the activity information to Infrabel's passengers to the new SNCB, in accordance with Article 9 of the Royal Decree of 7 November 2013. On the one hand, this means bringing all of the assets and liabilities into human resources which constitute the human resources activities and which were previously held by SNCB-Holding, on the other hand, a cash contribution of 10 million, respectively, by the new SNCB and Infrabel. On 31 December 2013, SNCB Group's financial debt amounted to 4 857.9 million, compared with 2 056,7 million on 1 January 2005, or an increase of 2 801,2 million. The most important evolutions were the following. Firstly, a debt increase of 1 624.9 million under the financing of investment, the interest and repayment of which are covered by a specific amount from the State. A debt increase of 1 141.7 million due to the cash drain at SNCB between 1 January 2005 and 31 December 2013, despite capital increases of 530 million over the same period. The balance arose from the cash flows of Infrabel and SNCB-Holding after deduction of the capital increases by SNCB-Holding in SNCB for an amount of 540 million. The distribution of debt was based on two main principles. First, the debts incurred by the group in connection with the investments on account of and at the expense of the State are directly attributable to New SNCB and Infrabel according to the nature of the investments, as are the debts incurred to provide guarantees in the light of the credit support annex. Secondly, the distribution of the balance of the net financial debt in proportion to 55% for New SNCB and 45% for Infrabel, while taking into account certain specificities, such as regional co-financing, employers' contributions due on 1 January 2014, etc.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic065x.u66	Thank you, Minister, for your detailed reply. I'm glad you want to continue working on the company's financial health. That was also in your policy paper. You will also focus on the core tasks, being safe and punctual train traffic. We believe that only in this way can the future of the company remain guaranteed and the enormous debt can be reduced.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic065x.u67	Madam President, Madam Minister, I raise the debate a little bit: my question is not about SNCB but about pilot licences. Minister, the President of the Mobility FPS is currently blocking the issuance of the EASA (European Aviation Safety Agency) private pilot licences on the grounds that he does not want to apply the Royal Decree of 19 March 1914 on the use of languages. This order stipulates that either the English or the local language of the country, or French, are authorized in the case of the Spa La Sauvenière airfield. As a result, several pilots are blocked because they did not pass the language test or for other reasons. In uncontrolled airspace, which is less than 4,000 feet away, French is the usual language. Among the members of the Spa club, an international licensed pilot could leave the Spa airfield and join the Midi de la France with his only EASA licence, in French, since in France only the French language is required.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic065x.u68	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, there is currently no AESA private pilot licence whose issuance is blocked by DG Air Transport. With regard to language tests, DG Air Transport recognises language proficiency declarations only if they are issued on the basis of an objective test. Certificates issued on the basis of a declaration on the honour of knowledge of the mother tongue are not valid and therefore cannot be used to obtain a mention of language proficiency on the licence. Certificates of language competence recognised in Belgium shall be those relating to a language of the Member States of the European Union provided that the certificate in question has been issued either by an approved centre of a competent authority of an EASA Member State and on the basis of an objective test, and that the test is specific to radiotelephony tests in accordance with the requirements of acceptable means of conformity and in accordance with European legislation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic065x.u69	Madam Chair, Minister, when we try to reach the appropriate service, we fall to the absent subscribers. Many pilots have been waiting for almost a year to pass the exam; they could pass it in French since, under certain conditions and for France in particular, the French language is sufficient. Why then are these pilots not allowed to take their language exams in French rather than English?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic065x.u70	Madam Secretary, allow me to take you back in time to 2012. In 2012, the Flemish transport company De Lijn, Infrabel, the Flemish Region and the City of Bilzen concluded an agreement on the abolition of seven considerations on the territory of Bilzen. For Infrabel, this fits perfectly into a strategic plan to replace all of the plans on that segment of the railway line with bridges or tunnels by 2015. This will certainly improve road safety. The abolition of the consideration on line 34 is also an absolute condition for the realisation of the Spartacus project Sneltramline 1. The agreement for the abolition of the seven recitals in Bilzen was approved by Bilzen City Council in September 2012. Why has Infrabel still not signed the agreement? What's the reason for the delay? When will the Infrabel signature take place? What is the current state of affairs regarding the abolition of the negotiations on railway line 34 in Bilzen? When will Infrabel perform the necessary works? What timing is proposed? Will the delay in the dossier affect the construction of the Hasselt-Maastricht rapid tram line? Are you planning consultations with the Flemish Region?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic065x.u71	Mr Raskin, at the moment the agreement has only been signed by the municipality of Bilzen. In autumn 2014, Infrabel received the agreement from AWW asking that Infrabel sign. Then De Lijn will sign, after which AWW will be the last to sign the agreement. Recently, however, De Lijn has learned that the speed tram project on Dutch territory has technical problems and a higher cost than initially estimated. The impact of this on the further implementation of the rapid tram project on Belgian territory cannot be estimated at the moment. As long as there is no clarity about the situation on Dutch territory and the impact of the savings in 2016-2019, it will therefore be difficult for Infrabel to engage in the realisation of the project by means of an agreement. The technical consultations relating to the abolition of the plans on line 34 and the integration into the De Lijn rapid tram project are in full swing. The tendering procedure at De Lijn was initiated and the first tenders were obtained. The procedure will continue as soon as there is certainty about the Dutch part of the Hasselt-Maastricht Sneltram project. The works would start in mid-2015 and end in the course of 2018. Depending on the signature of the above agreement, planning will certainly have to be reviewed. As long as the obstacles to signing the agreement are not eliminated, it is difficult to assess the concrete consequences. Once the barriers have been removed, the timing of the files of Infrabel and De Lijn will be re-coordinated.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic065x.u72	That is quite clear, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic065x.u73	Madam President, Minister, obtaining a certificate of professional fitness is a complementary document to the compulsory driver's licence that all professional drivers with a driver's licence in Groups C and D must obtain after completing continuous training for five years. However, some drivers do not require professional fitness for their transport activities if they are covered by a series of exemptions listed by the Mobility FPS. This is also the case for drivers of vehicles or combinations of vehicles used for the transport of equipment, equipment or machines intended for drivers in the exercise of their profession. When the vehicle moves on Belgian territory, they are not affected by this training obligation. However, according to my information, in Europe, there would be no exemption from training for these trips. Madam Minister, is a truck driver who benefits from the exemption in Belgium covered if he crosses the borders of our country? Should he take training from the moment he has to travel outside Belgium?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic065x.u74	Madam President, Mr Clarinval, Directive 2003/59 introduces a number of exemptions provided for in Article 2. This Directive, including the exemptions from Article 2, was transposed in Belgium by the Royal Decree of 4 May 2007. Member States are bound by the principle of the European Directive, they cannot introduce exemptions into their legislation which this Directive does not contain. A driver could therefore be considered an infringement by another Member State if he has not completed the necessary training for the transport he carries out, in the event that that Member State requires training for which Belgium, for its part, has provided for an exemption. When a driver is required to cross the borders of our country in the course of his driving activity, he must therefore check whether the other Member State through which he has transited has introduced the same exemptions as Belgium in its legislation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic065x.u75	Madam Minister, that's what I was afraid of. This makes the lives of border companies terribly difficult. For example, an entrepreneur from my municipality who goes to Viroinval has to cross Givet's boot and is therefore likely to be arrested. It's a complicated situation! I am not asking for exemptions to be abolished in Belgium, but I imagined that there was a way for other countries to recognize our exemptions. Unfortunately, this is not the case and I regret it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic065x.u76	Madam President, Madam Minister, for some time now there has been a question in Belgium of creating a body capable of objectifying the reality of aircraft overflights and, above all, of monitoring the effectiveness of the decisions taken in this field, particularly when it comes to take-offs and landings from and towards Brussels-National airport. Present in the 2008 government agreement and taken over by the 2010 agreement, the measure could never be implemented. Yet today, all parties realize the importance of this objectivation. On the other hand, there are many conflicts and dissatisfactions arising from deviations and approximate application of the routes and phases of flights provided for in the legislation. The creation of a body capable of assessing and controlling all these aspects appears to be a reasonable step and could bring some serenity back to the discussions. It could be considered to be an impartial arbitrator that could be relied upon. Minister, is the creation of such a body still under consideration and, if so, what form could it take?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic065x.u77	As you said, the government agreement provides, in consultation with the Regions, for the creation of an independent noise control authority around Brussels-National Airport, set up on the initiative of the Directorate-General for Air Transport. This authority will ensure transparent and coordinated action against the nuisances caused by air transport in this area. It will have its own powers and carry out monitoring, sanctioning and consultation missions. This body has been called for for many years by associations of local residents. In the context of this extremely sensitive issue, it seems to me to be an objective and essential tool. Preparatory and analytical work is under way.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic065x.u78	Madam Minister, thank you. I'm glad to hear it's going on. Do you already have any idea the timing?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic065x.u79	[[As soon as possible.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic065x.u80	Madam Minister, at the end of December 2014, the Council of State issued a judgment on the award of the last contract for the installation of the European rail safety system ETCS by Infrabel to Siemens-Cofely-Fabricom. This award was suspended because Infrabel would have infringed the principle of equal treatment by amending the specifications after the application had been opened. Technical and financial requirements, inter alia, as well as the method of calculating the price, would have been adapted. Firstly, why was the tender changed after the opening? How did that decision come about? Secondly, the criteria of the tender can be very decisive for the company and the Region which collect the contract. The adaptation of these criteria therefore gives rise to a manifestation of bias. How can this be avoided in the future? Will you work towards a more objective procurement procedure? Thirdly, and finally, the procedure will not have to be completely redone. Infrabel therefore considers that the award of the contract can be concluded by the summer. Is that timing realistic, Madam Secretary? Does any delay affect the further roll-out of the ETCS system?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic065x.u81	Madam Minister, Mr Raskin has already outlined the situation. I myself have judgment No. 20/296 again. The Council of State states that there has been no intention to violate the principle of equality, but that due to the many changes made to the original specifications there may be a possible breach of the principle of equality. The whole procedure should not appear to have to be repeated; it should only be possible to submit a new tender on the basis of the amended specifications. Why did these changes happen? What were the reasons for that? What other tenders were submitted? What is the consequence of the suspension? Then what's the timing?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic065x.u82	Of course, I agree with the introduction and the questions put by my fellow Members. It is a very large and important call for tender under the ETCS-Master Plan, which is intended to provide the most secure rail network in Europe by 2022, so to speak. This is a very important tender of more than half a billion euros. It is therefore not unusual for all kinds of legal proceedings to be initiated by losing associations once they have been granted. Less common is that they are also right. If you read the motivation of the judgment to which Mr Geerts referred, there are remarkable passages in it that raise some questions. I heard a reaction from Infrabel in which the matter was minimized and said that the procedure should not be repeated and gave the impression that it was not so bad. If you read the judgment of the Council of State, that's meaningful. The question that arises is how it is possible that a company such as Infrabel, which nevertheless has a good reputation and is highly manned, has made such mistakes. Will the procurement procedure also be examined and evaluated within Infrabel? If so, how and when? As my fellow Members have already asked, what is the effect of this procurement procedure? Can this be done without further compromising the objectives and timing of the ERTMS plan? What concrete steps will be taken now? The tender procedure was launched in 2011. In the meantime, we've been four years. It is important to waste as little time as possible here.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic065x.u83	Madam President, without once again questioning the opportunity for scrutiny by the Council of State, nor the importance of complying with the applicable rules on public procurement, Infrabel can only regret the consequences of the petition that was submitted in this matter and more generally deplores the increase in petitions, on the basis of the unrepealed suppliers. Although the approach to the decision is still being examined in detail, it is true in this file that the judgment of the Council of State of 23 December 2014 could lead to almost two years delay in the planned calendar for the joint implementation of the ERTMS Master Plan by Infrabel and SNCB. In a broader sense, Infrabel considers the generalisation of petitions by non-retaining suppliers to be a derailment of a system aimed at ensuring free market competition, but whose consequences, including the delay caused, contribute to conflicting the system with general interests. The detailed description of the procedure is rather long. I therefore propose, if you like, that you receive a copy of it immediately.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic065x.u84	It is painful that a long-standing dossier could lead to delays of another two years. You correctly state that it is a derailment of a system in which guaranteeing a free market comes into conflict with the general interest. Worse is that we are talking about a security system that we are all talking about with the same voice. There is a broad consensus that we absolutely must work on this. There's been an error in the system. I propose that we look in this committee to see how we can avoid these matters in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic065x.u85	I understand that there is confidentiality in this dispute and certainly in an ongoing procedure. I found Infrabel's ability to appreciate the drawing up of the award notice to be remarkable. I'll read your answer quietly and then I'll reconnect. This is too important from a legal point of view.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic065x.u86	I understand that a company like Infrabel wants to defend itself in this procedure. I still find it hard to put the ball back in the companies' camp. They should not submit petitions. The ruling proves that the company was right, there were reasons to file a petition. Otherwise, the Council of State would not have made that statement, in which it considered a postponement of the whole plan. It is regrettable that it is not recognised that something has gone wrong somewhere and that it is not quickly, as the Council of State itself suggests, that the procedure is restarted without starting it completely from scratch. That is why I regret your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic065x.u87	That's why you were given more details directly in writing. Come back to me without hesitation. There is a lot of detail in the answer that has been transmitted.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic065x.u88	Madam Minister, in June 2014, there was a great deal of concern among air traffic controllers about the combination of the pension reform with the Royal Decree of 14 September 1997, which states that they should be placed in disponibility in the month after their fifty-fiveth anniversary until the month after their 60th birthday and therefore no longer be able or allowed to perform their duties. This created a vacuum between the age of 60 and the statutory retirement age. This was temporarily resolved by a protocol agreement whereby Belgocontrol pays the waiting money for the traffic controllers who are put on disponibility in 2014, 2015 or 2016. At present, it is not entirely clear how this system should evolve because it is a temporary system. I think we should try to remove the necessary uncertainty and try to be clear about it. Madam Minister, how do you evaluate the arrangement agreed in 2014 on this issue? Which slopes do you follow to arrive at a sustainable solution? Is it your intention to continue working in the same line or are you also exploring other possibilities? At what time do you plan to take the necessary initiatives to reach a settlement?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic065x.u89	This arrangement concerns an interim solution. A long-term structural solution is currently being sought. Other possibilities are, of course, being explored. At this stage, it is difficult to calculate the exact impact, as this will depend on the measures to be taken in the new pension reform. A structural solution should be found as soon as possible. It is my intention not to leave this aside. I will make effective efforts to find a structural solution within the shortest possible time.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic065x.u90	Madam Secretary, thank you for the answer. I think it would be wise to remove this uncertainty as quickly as possible and to clarify it. I think we all benefit from that. We know that this is a difficult sector with very specific working hours, a very specific environment, a very specific international regulation. In any case, I will support you in arriving at a sound solution to this story as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic065x.u91	Madam Minister, two weeks ago, the press reported that SNCB had almost used up its time to secure the financial future of its goods branch. The negotiations on the transfer of fresh capital have been dragging on for a long time and competition from German railway company Deutsche Bahn has led to a reduction in turnover. I have the following specific questions. First, Jo Cornu has been working on a plan for a long time to give SNCB Logistics a start as an independent company with several shareholders. In addition to SNCB, SNCF, the Flemish ports and regional investment companies are also mentioned. Although Mr Cornu had publicly committed himself to presenting a full and approved plan before the end of last year, an agreement remains open. Why haven't we managed to close the negotiations? What is the current state of this Cornu plan? Can an agreement be reached in the short term? Secondly, Mr Cornu wants to convince the Flemish ports to invest in SNCB Logistics. However, they impose two important conditions: a credible social plan and the business plan need to be updated. Those conditions are not met today. Does Mr Cornu's plan have a chance of success if the Flemish ports did not support it? Thirdly, are there any other partners who would like to invest? In what way and under what conditions? The investment company Gimv would seem reluctant to take risks. How can this reluctance to invest be removed? What vision can be offered to the prospective investors? Fourthly, the previous SNCB-topman Marc Descheemaecker walked another trail. He sought to get closer to the Deutsche Bahn. That German railway company is today the major competitor of SNCB Logistics and actively hunts its customers. It may therefore be wise to bring that competitor into the home as a partner. What was the Deutsche Bahn's proposal at the end of 2013? Has this been negotiated in the last year? Do you intend to revisit the thinking of the Deutsche Bahn? If no, why not?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic065x.u92	Madam President, Minister, Mr Raskin has already said a great deal. The concern is for the future of that company, but also for the impact on SNCB as such. We have seen that the limited profit of 2013, after years of loss, would be reversed again in 2014 and that a structural scenario should be developed. The Deutsche Bahn scenario has already been cited, the contribution of the ports and investment companies such as Gimv and Sogepa are other slopes that are being walked. The port of Antwerp has said that it will probably not do it, that it will look at the two conditions, the full social plan and the update of the business plan. I would have liked to have had an update. I am adjusting my questions a little bit in relation to the written record because there is a different reality in the meantime. What scenarios are on the table today? How much public money will be put back into a commercial activity and what impact will this have on SNCB itself?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic065x.u93	Madam President, this is a commercial activity carried out by SNCB Logistics, a 100% subsidiary of SNCB. SNCB Logistics operates in a competitive market and is fully subject to all legal provisions for a public limited liability company of private law. The general attitude is not to give commercial information about activities carried on in a competitive environment. For 2014, SNCB Logistics will confirm the financial turnaround achieved in 2013 and for the fifth year in a row, SNCB Logistics will improve its operational result. The result for 2014 will be better than the positive ebitda of three million euros from 2013. The branching of SNCB Logistics at the beginning of 2011 has made it impossible to transfer any resources reserved for public services to commercial activity, including SNCB Logistics. Taking into account the necessary financial strengthening of SNCB Logistics and the growing international consolidation of the market, the SNCB Group decided at the end of 2012 to investigate the possible slopes. As a result, there were talks with one foreign freight transport operator, Deutsche Bahn, in 2013. At the end of 2013, DB made a non-binding offer. Unfortunately, the financial terms of the bid were very negative for SNCB and therefore the taxpayer. Consequently, at the beginning of 2014, the new delegate director of SNCB reopened the process of providing SNCB Logistics. Discussions on this dossier are continuing. It goes without saying that in this process much attention must be paid to the following aspects: the maintenance of a competitive situation on the Belgian market and the development of transport at national and international level, the financial impact on SNCB and the achievement of a social agreement with the recognised organisations. As stipulated in the coalition agreement, I will have a further study of the government's financial support for intermodal and distributed transport in order to create a level playing field that will serve as a basis for the further development of these modes of transport and the realisation of a modal shift to rail.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic065x.u94	Madam Minister, allow me to say that I do not really get very much specific answers from you. That actually confirms my suspicion that there isn't that great...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic065x.u95	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic065x.u96	That makes me think it doesn't look so great. There are also rumours that, despite the fact that the results have gone in the right direction in recent years, from March 2015 onwards we are going back to the red figures. I believe that a solution is necessary and that we should not drag this dossier further. SNCB Logistics is an important player who contributes greatly to the economy of this country. A number of sectors in ports are largely dependent on Freight Logistics. In this sense, this has an impact on the overall Belgian economy and on employment. I think we can say that dragging this dossier for too long is not an option.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic065x.u97	Madam Secretary, thank you for the answer. Mr Raskin, questions have been answered much shorter in the past. I would therefore like to thank the Minister for communicating a number of elements. You say that Deutsche Bahn's offer was not favourable to SNCB and therefore not to the taxpayer. That's an important statement. Let us hope that a solution can be found in which SNCB does not have to stop too much money, and that is what our control is about.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic065x.u98	You understand that the negotiations are still under way and that I cannot give any more details. Be aware that this is a very important issue that we follow very closely on a daily basis. There are significant investments that have been made, including the Liefkenshoek in Antwerp. I do not want this to become useless work. We follow SNCB Logistics very closely which is very important for our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic065x.u99	Madam Chair, Madam Minister, I know that line 44 is a figure in your head, but it must also be a memorable memory, since we practiced it together, barely fifteen days ago. My question is a little sharp, and I had the opportunity to ask your colleagues, who told me to study the problem. I come back formally to this in committee. Since the implementation of the new SNCB timetables, commuters no longer have the possibility of connecting to Pepinster on their Brussels-Liège-Spa journey. This involves thousands of commuters every week. When travellers go to the "RailTime" site, it appears that they have 4 minutes between the arrival of the Liège-Pepinster train and the departure of the Pepinster train to Spa. However, the train attendants certify that in their "book", it is clearly stipulated that the trains no longer correspond to Pepinster for the Liège-Spa journey, which implies that the Pepinster-Spa train is not obliged to wait for passengers coming from Liège. The result is that a delay of a few minutes on the train from Brussels and Liège can lead to an increase in the journey time of one hour. How can you explain this discrepancy between the information provided by the website and SNCB agents? What solutions can you bring to this situation? You will easily understand the discomfort for travellers who have to wait an hour on the docks of the Pepinster station, whose hall is now permanently closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic065x.u100	Dear colleague, as I had the opportunity to explain to you during the information I gave to Spa, as a general rule, there is a question of correspondence when there are at least 5 minutes between the arrival and departure of the two connecting trains. However, in the present case, the new transport plan provides for 4 minutes of connections to Pepinster between L trains coming from Liège and L trains to Spa, taking into account the constraints associated with the single lanes foreseen due to the work on line 37. This is a temporary or permanent situation on line 44. This information is well mentioned in the Ibis mobile phone of the attendants. A waiting period of 2 minutes is officially provided in case of delay of L trains coming from Liège. Furthermore, the Regulation does not provide that the attendant should issue announcements concerning connections on L-trains; only IC trains are affected by this measure. However, this does not prevent him from communicating the information to the traveller who would ask him the question. In order to guarantee correspondence at Pepinster, SNCB assures me that it will pay particular attention to the regularity of L trains between Liège-Guillemins and Verviers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic065x.u101	Madam Chair, I thank the Minister for her response.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic065x.u102	Madam President, Madam Minister, before the start of the merger investment project, the Belgian rail network had a wide variety of signalling stations. They differed not only in old age, but also in technology. With this merger project, Infrabel wanted to change this. The aim was to reduce the hundreds of signal houses to 31 focal points, in which a single technology would also be installed. There are numerous benefits to the project. First of all, safety on the rail network would benefit. In addition, the project should achieve an efficiency improvement by reducing the number of signalers and management costs. Finally, a more integrated management of the network and better coordination of signal control would also have a positive impact on the punctuality of train traffic. Madam Secretary, I have the following questions. Infrabel's planning foreseen 286 signalling stations to be concentrated by 31 December 2014. However, the project would have been delayed for months. In mid-2014 263 signalling stations were concentrated. Has the project achieved the planned timing? If not, when will it be completed? What's the reason for the delay? What are the financial implications? What is the impact on staff efficiency savings? In 2011, a second phase of the merger project was launched under the New Traffic Management investment programme. The aim was to reduce the number of signalling posts to ten by 2020. What is the status of this programme? The planning of the concentration project is closely linked to that of the ETCS system. Does any delay in the merger project affect the implementation of that system on the rail network? By when will the ERTMS level 2 project be implemented?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic065x.u103	Madam President, Mr Raskin, at the end of December 2014, 263 signalling posts were concentrated. The planned concentration of 286 signalling posts by the end of 2014 was therefore indeed not achieved. At present, there is a certain shortage of personnel with specific technical competence in signalling. There is no direct financial impact. The focus on the project has not changed. Investment costs will be more spread over time. Safe operation of the rail network should always be ensured. The non-focused signalling posts will therefore remain manned for a longer period of time. The New Traffic Management investment programme is still on schedule. There are currently no impacts on the planning for the implementation of ETCS. On 23 December the Council of State suspended the award of the At present, it is not possible to indicate when the implementation of ETCS level 2 will start.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic065x.u104	Madam Minister, the merger project is classified as an investment project to improve railway operational safety and it is also intended to reduce efficiency by reducing signalling posts and personnel. This project has not yet been fully completed, there is a certain delay, but I think it is the right way forward. These are two birds with one stone, in the sense that safety improves and that concentrating the signalling points is cost-effective. We will continue to ensure that the project is carried out correctly and as far as possible within the deadlines set.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic065x.u105	Madam Minister, my question concerns the rail link between the Kempen and the city of Turnhout-Brussels. That's our only direct train connection to the capital, and there's only one train per hour. Shuttles from Turnhout and Herentals, including myself, have a direct train to Brussels. Travelers from Mol, Olen, Geel, Grubbendonk and Berlaar reach Brussels via the same line but have to change in Herentals. It is not so well known, but the Kempen are the gateway to the district of Turnhout and have some 400 000 inhabitants, some 20 000 of which work in Brussels or the Flemish Rand around Brussels. So it's a crucial railroad. Last year, SNCB presented us with its new transport regime. When it appeared that the Turnhout-Brussels link would be extended again to Wallonia, this time to Binche. For 2006 the line ran to Manage, but it was shortened to Brussels, because the extension led to a lot of delays. At the presentation we expressed our concern that the new extension to Binche, even further away than Manage, will once again lead to delays. In August, on my birthday, Jo Cornu assured us in a personal letter that the extension of the Turnhout-Brussels link to Binche would not lead to a worse regularity. We have waited for the practice, but unfortunately it has proved otherwise. We experienced delays week after week. A second problem is the train sets themselves. They were modern double deckers of type M6, who drove to Brussels in rush hour 6:12, and back to Turnhout at 17:37. They were replaced by 40-year-old MR70 couples. Outside the rush hour, modern MS80 variants have also been replaced by a less modern variant, which was sometimes referred to in the press as pork nose. Older couples are more likely to fail and show faster defects. This is also what we felt during the first weeks of the new timetable. Panchos and blocked doors have led to the necessary delays and abolitions. In concrete terms, this means that the Kempian traveller is delayed for an hour each time, since the next direct train only runs an hour later. I come to my questions. Why did the Turnhout-Brussels line go back to Binche, while in the years before 2006 there was such an effort to achieve the decoupling, knowing that Binche is still a lot further than Manage? We were wondering whether you were aware that this extension would effectively lead to delays as predicted, and in that case we were wondering what you would actually do about it and when we could expect improvement? As for the comfort and the delay, we wonder why the modern couples of our line have been replaced by the old ones? We wonder what connection we have with those older couples and where the new couples we had before have gone? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic065x.u106	It is a fact that direct connections with Brussels are requested from all parts of the country and it is also a fact that the capacity of the Brussels north-south link is limited. Moreover, it is not clear that many train connections start or end in Brussels. All this makes it necessary to link up a link to the south and north of the north-south link, as this can save lanes. In particular, it looks at connections that are closely linked in terms of timetables. In the direction of Binche, trains run with a punctuality of 88.5 % compared to the global punctuality figure of 90.3 % for the period from 14 to 31 December 2014. In the direction of the north, this punctuality is 82.7 %. During the first week there have indeed been material and traction problems. However, these are not related to the extension of this connection. However, it is still too early to say that the extension of this connection to Binche would affect the punctuality of this train. SNCB will do everything in its power to analyse this problem thoroughly. In order to improve the regularity of train traffic in the long term and to better match supply to demand, a new transport plan was introduced. This means other train connections, other journey times and de facto a modified use of the equipment. The latter must also take additional account of the location and specific maintenance possibilities of the workshops. In determining where the material is used, the M6 vehicles, with a high capacity, are preferably used on the busiest lines. This also allows to save lanes in the overloaded bottleneck of the north-south junction of Brussels. In order to optimise the use of the equipment, the MR80 is used on other connections and replaced by equivalent and modernised M4 equipment. Only a limited number of trains in the off-peak hours are driven with older four-speed or two-speed motor sets. Before 14 December 2014, the four-phase and dual-engine sets were mainly used on connections of the types IR and L. On the Turnhout-Binche connection, double-deck carriages are still used, albeit to a lesser extent. Since the M6 vehicles are SNCB vehicles with a maximum capacity, they are mainly used on highly occupied trains. All major axes to Brussels contain a certain number of trains made up of M6 carriages.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic065x.u107	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. The M6 or the MR6, being the modern double deck train, was indeed there during rush hour, but there is no longer on the line in question, which is one of the concerns. We understand that it saves an extra train, which can be interesting on certain routes. However, I repeat that the connection from the Kempen is very important and crucial. It also carries a lot of passengers. We would therefore ask you to take that number into account in any adjustment of the timetable. We also ask that consideration be given to removing the option of extending the line to Wallonia. We understand that in any case you are aware of the problem and would like to pay attention to it. We also help with this through the creation of a website, on which we bundle the complaints. We also ask travellers to send their complaints through the transport company. We will continue to monitor the problem with you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic065x.u108	Madam Minister, I will return to the plane for a moment, despite the fact that I will normally take the train to Turnhout and make the necessary observations. There have been a lot of disturbing reports about FABEC some time ago. It is true that a number of projects have been launched, which aim to redesign and shift the en-route traffic, as it is called. It is three projects that I try to outline briefly. The first is the FABEC CBA Land Central West project. The idea there is to shift air traffic from Frankfurt towards Great Britain and transatlantic areas to the North, across Dutch territory. A second is the SWAP 1 & 2 and wants to shift air traffic from Reims, France, to Germany. And a third project that does not yet have a name in my knowledge would shift traffic from Britain towards Italy to the south, to the south, at least from the French-Belgian border. The aim is actually to improve cost efficiency within FABEC for the Germans, the Dutch and the French, and those cases are managed by MUAC (Maastricht Upper Area Control). Your predecessor, Mr Wathelet, has confirmed to us that, if these projects continue, more than EUR 60 million would disappear from Belgocontrol's books on an annual basis. This would certainly have an impact on our unit rates, which we should definitely avoid. His piste was at that time to start conversations with our FABEC partners and then to reduce or avoid the consequences, knowing that it is a very unfortunate position to negotiate with people who actually win all, while there is only one country that loses. Now I would like to hear from you what has happened in the meantime, what is the status of these FABEC projects? In the meantime, were there any conversations with these FABEC partners, either by you or by your predecessor? Can you tell us any results of that?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic065x.u109	Madam President, Mr Wollants, the first point in my reply concerns the state of play of the FABEC projects mentioned. The first project, known as FABEC CBA Land Central West, is implemented in two steps. The first step is foreseen for the fourth quarter of 2017 and concerns the introduction of a new sectorisation and a new route structure in the north of the Netherlands and Germany. A cross border area for military use is also introduced in that area. This requires adaptation in airspace management and adaptation to the route network south of the area in question. A cross-border legal framework must also be developed. The second step is foreseen for the fourth quarter of 2018 and concerns the adaptation of the airspace structure in the south of the Netherlands, as well as the lifting of a military training area there, in order to complete the project. The second project, known as FABEC South East, comprises three phases. In March 2015, the creation of a military cross-border training area for the German, French and American air forces should give way to civilian traffic to the south of Luxembourg. This would allow rationalisation of the route network. In March 2016 the double crossing of two airways would be stopped. Finally, the full implementation of that project is foreseen in March 2018, with the adaptation to the borders of the military training area and the approach route of Geneva. The third project, known as Flow Optimisation Concept Scenario, concerns both an operational and financially adapted alternative. This global project provides for a general optimisation of the route network, ranging from Great Britain to Italy. This should take place between 2020 and 2025. The second point in my reply concerns the discussions with FABEC partners. The talks on financial compensation arrangements have been concluded. For the projects I have just mentioned, an agreement has been reached which contains three points. Firstly, the countries concerned must agree on a financial arrangement per project, limited to a period of three years. Secondly, if the losing party cannot make the necessary adjustments before the end of the three years, a solution is sought between the various FABEC States. Thirdly, the amount of compensation is reviewed annually, taking into account the revenue generated by the traffic flow.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic065x.u110	Madam Minister, we must take a close look at the impact, both in the short and in the long term, and at what amount we risk landing if we make the full exercise. Belgocontrol is a financial care child in this area, with losses of EUR 20 million on an annual basis. That doesn't make it any easier. We have talked about this very often in recent years. If we add a suit, it will be a very difficult story and we will have to look at how we deal with it. In the past, Mr Tintin concentrated on projects such as the Bare project to take as much air space as possible directly above our country without looking at what was happening in our neighbouring countries, which had the direct effect of uniting them much more than we have. We can only regret that. You inherited the file, just like your predecessor inherited it. We need to look very closely at how we can optimise our relations with our neighbouring countries and, above all, how we can give the FABEC project real wings, even if it is through an intermediate step on the Benelux scale. I believe that this is a firm crowbar to achieve the best possible solution.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic065x.u111	Question No 1164 by Mr Vanvelthoven is postponed. Question No 1166 by Mr Geerts is transformed into a written question. Question No 1174 by Mrs Fonck is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic065x.u112	Madam President, Madam Minister, I am referring to a written question that I introduced last November on the state of play of the ER, which is again the subject of some information from the press. In your reply, you told me that "this progress would be assessed by the end of the year in order to consider the most favourable completion scenario possible and the possibility of implementation on the ground." The latest progress was in late 2013 and revealed, among other things, a rate of advancement of only 35% for Line 124 Uccle-Nivelles and 64% for the Watermael-Louvain-la-Neuve line, which is unlikely to reassure us of the successful completion of these two lines within a reasonable period of time. Similarly, the RER Fund would have a deficit of over $500 million to ensure the completion of the project. Therefore, could you please let me know, Madam Minister, what is the status of the work of the RSP as of December 31, 2014. Can the delay due to the constraints arising from the 60/40 regional key – that is, 60% of SNCB's overall investments in Flanders and only 40% in Wallonia – be eliminated by 2016? When is the project's finalisation estimated? Indeed, the press refers to an early start-up by 2025, while several sources close to the file cite the 2030 deadline. Is there a fiscal shift planned to fill the shortfall in the RER Fund to complete the work? If so, will this be done at the expense of another sector? Will any arrangements soon be in place to enable the RER lines already finalized or in the process of being completed?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic065x.u113	Madam Minister, the policy paper stated, among other things, that despite savings of EUR 2.1 billion, the accelerated implementation of the GEN project around Brussels would be carried out. Apparently, that's one of the promises that will fall prematurely. Like Mr Maingain, I checked the press and said the following. Infrabel claims that the delay is due to the lack of building permits. The price for the remaining works would be up to EUR 965,4 million, half a billion more than estimated. The resources of the GEN Fund should therefore be strengthened. Another reason for the delays is the 60/40 investment key used in some projects. Finally, the savings would have an impact on TUC RAIL and possibly also on the work of the GEN, because projects that have not yet been started will be further delayed. Is the claim that the GEN will be postponed to 2030 correct? You also say in the article that you sent a letter to Infrabel and to SNCB asking for an explanation. What causes have they mentioned to you? Is it true that the 60/40 ratio also played in this file, because it has an impact on the different regions? Are there any projects, both within the framework of the GEN and others, which cannot be started by the redundancies at TUC RAIL? Are there any other savings that have an impact on the roll-out of the GEN? During the previous legislature, we adopted legislation on the installation of a GEN committee and a GEN cell. Are they operational yet?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic065x.u114	Madam Minister, I recall from an answer to a question from November 2014 that you inherited a deficit of EUR 500 million, which is due to higher costs compared to the originally estimated budget. Can you explain why the 60/40 key causes the GEN to slow down? Which parts should be given priority according to the Flemish Region? Have you had a conversation with Pascal Smet? If so, what are the main points you have mentioned? What policy choices will you make to close the deficit of EUR 500 million?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic065x.u115	Madam President, Madam Minister, the commissioning of the RER is the Arlésienne du rail belge. Completion of the ER is expected to cost €965.4 million. However, it appears that the balance available within the RER Fund amounts to EUR 460 million. Nearly EUR 500 million is therefore missing in order to complete all the work. Some do not hesitate to say that the final commissioning of the RER project will not be possible until 2025, even 2030. Minister, these delays are not without consequences for commuters. I will take one example, that of Louvain-la-Neuve. The neo-louvanist students complain in fact about the freezing of the works of the RER. Indeed, many UCL students transit through Brussels or Namur to join university. In addition, line 161 is a line with frequent delays and urgently needed renovations. Can you, Madam Minister, tell us what priority you will give to the ER and more specifically to the completion of the work on line 161 that has gone on too long? Can you also tell me what the other impacts of the delay announced in the implementation of the Walloon Brabant RER Plan will be?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic065x.u116	Madam Chair, Minister, I am not going to repeat the recitals of my question; previous speakers have done so sufficiently. Minister, some sources close to the issue now cite 2030 as the deadline for finalizing this project. This information makes me very concerned about your statements regarding the acceleration of the operation of the RER, as well as its integration into the 2017 transport plan. My questions are as follows. What is the status of the various RER sites as of December 31, 2014? Do you have a specific schedule for completing this work? How do you plan to resolve the project funding gap? And can you tell us whether, in your view, the acceleration of the operation is still necessary? If so, how do you envisage it?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic065x.u117	Colleagues, the multi-year investment plan, including the timeline for projects, has been approved by the previous government. This plan provides for a start-up in 2025. Following the fiscal framework decided by the federal government, Infrabel hastily established a budget for 2015. The only correct conclusion that can be drawn from this budget is a slight shift in major projects. In addition, the multi-annual investment plan should be completely reviewed on the basis of regional and federal priorities. This work, which is under way, will lead to a clear and solid plan for the years to come. I have asked for written explanations and I expect an answer shortly. The impact of the 60/40 allocation key on the RER dossier is laid down in the Cooperation Agreement between the Federal State and the Flemish, Walloon and Brussels Regions of 11 October 2001. The redundancies at TUC RAIL are due to reductions in investment and not vice versa. I would really like to reassure you: yesterday, at a meeting between Infrabel, SNCB and my firm on the work of the ER, the date of 2025 is confirmed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic065x.u118	Good. I hear you confirm a firm commitment for 2025, which is still a significant delay. In addition, you do not answer the question regarding the status of work as at 31 December 2014. I hope you will give me this answer in writing. Finally, we will be paying attention to the multiannual programme, which you say is currently under discussion, in order to check whether the amounts foreseen in it will cover the deficit of the RER Fund which, to date, is no longer sufficiently funded to continue all the planned work.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic065x.u119	You say with certainty that there will be no delay and that the date of 2025 will be kept. That's important. I just had a question about the operationality of the GEN committee at the board of directors and Infrabel. I'll deliver them in writing.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic065x.u120	I'm glad to hear that the 2025 deadline has been confirmed. I hear from the Minister that she has questions about the priorities of the Regions. I read in the newspaper that colleague Smet had already invited her to a conversation. Maybe that hasn't happened yet. We are certainly following up on the file.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic065x.u121	We can indeed be pleased with that date of 2025. Finally, rejoice... we'll see by then! I did not get a specific answer on line 161. I will therefore have the opportunity to ask you again in writing in this regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic065x.u122	I agree with my colleagues' requests for written answers to the specific questions we have asked, particularly as regards the timing and progress of the various projects.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic065x.u123	Written questions will therefore be addressed to you, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic065x.u124	Let me remind you that we will stop our work at 5.15 p.m. I would therefore like to inform you that we will proceed to agenda item 65. I ask my Vice-President, Mr. Van den Bergh, please replace me until the end of our work.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic065x.u125	Madam Minister, on 6 March 2014, the so-called "Leuven Straight-through" route for take-off aircraft was introduced. Shortly after taking off, the aircraft no longer take a right turn for destinations in the south and east. They fly straight ahead for 15 kilometers, then take a turn to the right and continue low below the landing traffic. According to the region and in my view, there is no rational, operational or aviation-technical argument for this new route. The take-off route Leuven Straight ahead is a completely new route, since the start of the airport. The route runs counter to five principles of the airport agreements agreed by the federal negotiators in 2008 and 2010. First, the route Leuven Straight ahead is less safe, because the rising and descending traffic intersects. Secondly, it causes a lower capacity of the airport. Thirdly, the diversion of certain flights is 33 kilometres extra. Fourthly, there is additional noise for residents in densely populated municipalities. Fifthly, it is a far too complex flight route, which disrupts other routes, including in European airspace. In short, the route Leuven Straight ahead, so to speak, carries out an agreement, but is in reality contrary to the principles of that agreement. We can also speak of a superconcentration. The region under that route receives 70% of all country traffic. That's where the departing planes are gonna be on top of that. This results in more aircraft than for any region around the airport. Since March 2014, Leuven Straight through has also become the only region without rest periods. In each region municipalities get some rest. Subject to exceptional circumstances, however, the Leuven region is always flown straight through, either by landing or by rising aircraft. The result is a concentration in frequency, duration and location. The route Leuven Straight ahead is perceived as very unjust. There are no ecological reasons. There's no less noise. There are no fewer overflowing residents thanks to Leuven Straight ahead, quite the contrary. The residents under the route are therefore treated unequally, compared to other residents near the airport. Several municipalities have sent letters to the previous and current ministers on this matter and the municipal councils have approved motions in the same way. On the occasion of the new year and a newly held meeting in my own congregation, where I once again noticed the anger of the people, I would like to ask you clearly for a state of affairs. Firstly, have the municipalities received an answer to their protests? Secondly, has the government already formally or informally taken a position on the issue? Thirdly, how do you proceed with this dossier? If you have not yet taken a position, when will you do so? What's the timing?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic065x.u126	Madam Minister, the 2010 airport agreement did indeed provide for the introduction of a new route 07 Straight ahead with the aim of reducing the nuisance when flying in the east wind configuration. This introduction was supported at that time by almost all parties, but once introduced the enthusiasm was considerably dampened. In practice, there have also been many disadvantages, to the extent that there is not much left of the original broad support. The result is known. There is a great deal of protest against this new route, in which a number of municipalities are also considering legal action, or perhaps even the step to be taken, in order to be able to be heard about this problem. At the same time, a number of improvements to the route have been discussed and outlined since its introduction in March last year. It is unclear to me whether these improvements will lead to an acceptable solution for those living around, but perhaps you can give us a good picture of that. These changes may also have disadvantages, but I think it would be wise to put everything on the table so that we can speak of an overall approach to noise rather than merely shifting noise. Finally, the government agreement is also important, which agreed to carry out an evaluation of the amendments made to, inter alia, March 2014. This must, of course, be the aim of reaching an acceptable solution for all residents. Madam Secretary, can you give us the current state of play on the route? It is then about the re-introducing of the noise abatement department procedures, procedures to reduce noise at take-off, which were deleted in August 2013 for reasons which I find inexplicable. What's the deal with that? Can there be a spread of job use between 07L and 07R? Can there be a distribution of the departure routes from the 07-jobs? Has the installation of a fly-over waypoint, instead of the fly-by-waypoint we have today, been investigated to narrow down the corridor? What are the results of that? We are talking about the removal of the 8 000 foot height limit to 10 000 feet? I'd like to know more about that. Landing procedures will no longer be concentrated via the Florahub, including through direct routes towards 01 and south approach routes. How do you plan to carry out the evaluation of the amendments of March 2014, but also of the amendments of January 2014 concerning the routes over the north edge? Can you give an overview of the bodies involved in the evaluation, the deadline for the completion of the process and the participation in the process by, for example, impacted regional governments?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic065x.u127	Mr Wollants, technically speaking, before 6 March 2014, the aircraft taking off on runway 07R with south-west and south-east destinations took a right turn for Leuven, namely above the municipalities of Herent, Bertem, Kortenberg and west of Leuven. Following instructions from the then State Secretary, these procedures were changed on 6 March 2014 to continue on the runway of rising track 07R and to take the turn to the right only after Leuven. Following the letters of the municipalities of Haacht, Holsbeek, Aarschot and Rotselaar dated 12 December 2014, they were confirmed that, in accordance with the government agreement, the routes of January and March 2014 will be the subject of an evaluation under a structural solution. As has already been said, the government cannot go ice cream overnight. The policy steps in the coalition agreement imply a thorough examination of the possible options and that the government consults the actors involved, including the regional governments, in order to find a solution acceptable to all parties. You may therefore be confident that you will be consulted in the near future, as soon as the government has taken the necessary preparatory steps, on the elaboration of the policy measures announced in the government agreement. In the meantime, however, any legal step risks prejudging the impact of the measures and making their implementation considerably more difficult. We would therefore like to ask all those concerned to refrain from such actions for the time being, pending the consultation envisaged, so that the measures would have a maximum chance of success.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic065x.u128	I have already heard this answer in the media. It will be the subject of an evaluation. Can you put a more precise timing on that? I like to hear the expression "the near future" but it can be interpreted widely.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic065x.u129	This case is so sensitive that I'm not closing in on a calendar.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic065x.u130	Mr President, Minister, thank you for the answer. It is indeed a very sensitive dossier. This applies to just about everything in the airport file. That is why we have been working on it for so long. Every time, there's someone who thinks he's found the solution. Even Mr Schouppe said, while emptying his cabinet, that he was satisfied that he had solved the airport file. If only, I'd say! I think it would be wise to clarify some of the steps that are being taken in the coming weeks or months. It is important to announce the evaluation, but I fear that in the short term we will have to respond a little more to the concerns of many municipalities and action groups. This lives on the two places: where they used to fly, namely the turn before Leuven, and where they now fly, namely in the turn after Leuven. In both places this lives very much today. I think they are absolutely asking to be involved and to hear how this problem can be dealt with. However, you are right to say that this is a very sensitive dossier. In any case, I wish you every success. However, it is absolutely essential that we take a number of steps.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic065x.u131	I know that the last word belongs to Parliament. I would just like to point out that in three months of time we have done more than all my predecessors. We have at least managed to put all the actors around the table and give information. It was really important to have more transparency in the management of this case. It was a reproach from all the actors involved in this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic065x.u132	Mr President, I believe that there is broad support in Parliament for tackling this dossier in the best possible way and certainly not to move too quickly. I absolutely do not want us to take a decision which may in itself be the subject of new legal proceedings, because that is the failure of aviation policy in recent years. Decisions were always made. It was also a good thing that decisions were taken, but if they are made unthinkingly then we actually end up in a carousel that we haven't been able to get out of since Anciaux.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic065x.u133	Mr President, Minister, this is the last question for you today. According to Infrabel's recent figures, 66 trains drove through a red signal light last year, 38 of which even reached a potentially dangerous point. After the number of signal collisions has fallen in recent years, an increase is now taking place again. It would be mainly due to incidents involving freight and work trains. I have two brief questions. First, since the end of 2013, all passenger trains have been equipped with the automatic stop system TBL1+. However, this does not apply to freight trains. What is the share of freight trains on the Belgian rail network that already has the TBL1+ system? Secondly, Infrabel will urge the freight operators to also install an automatic stop system on freight trains. SNCB Logistics would already be working on it, but it has serious financial difficulties, which we have already discussed today. What is the impact of these difficulties on the installation of TBL1+? Can you guarantee that SNCB Logistics freight trains will be equipped with that system? Is there any timing for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic065x.u134	Mr President, at the moment just over 40% of the total number of freight locomotives authorised to use the Belgian rail network is equipped with TBL 1+. SNCB Logistics, despite its financial difficulties, fully equips its fleet with an additional safety system, initially TBL 1+. Since 2013, all locomotives type 77 used for domestic freight have been equipped with TBL 1+. Since the end of 2014, this is also the case for all type 13 locomotives owned by the company. In view of the international activities of SNCB Logistics, the company goes beyond TBL 1+ alone. In addition to TBL 1+, the Type 13 locomotives are also equipped with ETCS hardware. The approval and activation of the ETCS software will take place in the course of 2016. On the basis of the information provided by Germany, Germany and the Netherlands for domestic traffic and France and Germany for domestic traffic, the ERTMS equipment of the 28-type locomotives would be ready this year.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic065x.u135	Mr President, Minister, in addition to passenger transport, it is indeed important to continue to work on the safety of freight transport. I hear the figures are moving in the right direction. Let us all continue to work on this safety, including for freight transport.
