ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic089x.u1	Madam President, Madam Minister, my question concerns the screening of the SNCB branches, the well-known subsidiaries of SNCB. The reform of the SNCB Group towards a dual structure during the previous legislature decided to drastically reduce the maze of branches. The answer to my written question to your predecessor, then Minister Labille, showed that, at the beginning of last year, there were still 20 subsidiaries and 37 minority participations left over for SNCB-Logistics. Infrabel still has five subsidiaries and twelve minority holdings. We are of course committed to your plan to set up a working group that will thoroughly exploit each branch with a fine comb to reveal possible inefficiencies and waste. This should improve transparency, both for staff and for the State as shareholder. The Court of Auditors' 2012 report on the financial flows pointed out at that time that a serious lack of supervision of the subsidiaries led to a lack of control of the risk derivatives. The conclusion was that the policy of recent years to award more and more contracts to subsidiaries is detrimental to the performance of public service contracts. Madam Minister, can you describe the mandate and composition of the working group? When will the screening be completed? Do you already have an idea of the possible savings you can make thanks to the audit of the branches? Specifically with regard to the real estate branch Eurostation and the other branches involved in the development of major station projects, I would have liked to know whether an inventory is being made of all the projects and the financial flows involved. Will it be checked whether the legislation on public procurement in these projects has been properly complied with? Will existing contracts be evaluated in order to allow for increased competition? Will it be verified whether the valuation rules for the transfer of assets between SNCB as a parent company and its branches were correctly applied? Do you think it would be appropriate to examine Infrabel's branches in addition to SNCB?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic089x.u2	Mr President, all the projects relating to the design, construction and renovation of the station are laid down in SNCB's multi-annual investment plan, as approved by the government. This multi-annual investment plan also determines the amount per station project, and each quarter, SNCB's FPS Mobility and Transport receives an update of the amounts spent per station project, regardless of whether SNCB uses Eurostation or any other subsidiary active in the development of station projects for a project. The multi-annual plan and its updates thus already constitute an inventory of all station projects. However, I believe it is urgent that the follow-up and reporting on station projects should be more transparent and clearer than usual in the context of the multiannual plan, given the limited budgetary resources available to achieve more rational choices in this type of project. As a contracting authority, SNCB is subject to public procurement legislation, which aims precisely to ensure competition and to obtain the most favourable tender. In the case of agreements which do not fall within the scope of public procurement law, SNCB acts as a public body in accordance with the general principles of good governance, including the principle of non-discrimination which also aims at normal market functioning. Finally, the whole SNCB Group is part of the evaluation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic089x.u3	Madam Secretary, you say that the evaluation is ongoing, but can you say anything about the timing?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic089x.u4	I keep repeating this: it is at the end of March at the beginning of April. I'm not going to say it every week. If you don't let me work, I'll never be able to come and present you with a report.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic089x.u5	Madam President, Minister, on January 21, 2015, the press reported that an independent study had been carried out which concluded that the financial and technical feasibility of moving from the national airport to the Walloon Brabant, towards Beauvechain. According to this study, it would be a matter of using the Beauvechain military base site and adapting it, as a first step, to freight transport and charter flights. In the long term, all the activities of the Zaventem airport would be relocated. I do not hide my scepticism about the realism of many aspects of this study, particularly in terms of opportunity, feasibility and cost. If we read this study in depth, we realize that the proposed cost for this trip seems rather unrealistic. Minister, have you had the opportunity to meet with the editor of this brief? He is a former French airline pilot living in Brussels. Do you think his conclusions are credible? Have your services ever examined this study further? If so, what are their conclusions?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic089x.u6	Madam President, Mrs de Coster-Bauchau, after listening to associations and airport authorities, we have entered a phase of work and data collection on the overall problem of the overflight of Brussels. Because of the very sensitive aspect of the subject, I will be careful not to comment prematurely. Finally, I refer to the government agreement and to the particular importance of the Brussels-National airport for the economy and employment in our country and to the support for the development of the airport with respect for the living conditions of residents and all citizens affected by noise pollution. It is not because some people, former drivers, have fanciful ideas that they will be followed!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic089x.u7	Madam Minister, you have answered my question unequivocally and I thank you for that. Your answer could not be clearer or faster. It is not tomorrow the day before the airport will be transferred. This will reassure all the Walloon Brabanons.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic089x.u8	Mr President, Madam Minister, as you know, two corridors (Rhine-Alpine Corridor and North Sea Mediterranean) of the European transport network cross Belgium. Within the framework of this European transport network, the European Commission has planned a centralised management of grants with a selection of projects by tender. Support will be geared towards cleaner transport modes, the deployment of new technologies and priority will be given to major cross-border projects and bottlenecks on the corridors of the main network. There is no envelope set aside by state or corridor. There is a small envelope reserved for new entrants to the European Union, but for others it is the best that will prevail. Therefore, a multi-annual programme for the projects and priorities listed in the Annex to the European Union Interconnection Facility (EIM) is planned to amount to EUR 11 billion. The 2014-2015 appeal amounts to 7 billion for the European Union as a whole. This call for projects covers the core network, the corridors as such, but also 10% of this budget is intended for the comprehensive network, i.e. all the networks that connect to this core network, to these 9 main lines, and may also concern rail passenger transport. The core network only concerns goods, but the rest can also concern rail passenger transport. If Belgium wishes to benefit from the important support of this multiannual programme, it will therefore have to return the list of its projects before 26 February 2015. Minister, what projects will be defended by Belgium in the context of this call for projects? Could you clarify the federal government's commitments to these projects? Given the importance of regional expertise in this area, have you consulted with the regional authorities on these calls for projects?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic089x.u9	Madam President, applications for subsidies must be submitted to the European Commission no later than 26 February. In order to be able to be forwarded to the Commission, these dossiers must first be validated by the competent authorities at the federal or regional level. For rail files, the Mobility and Transport FPS supports this validation. In order to be able to analyse the dossiers submitted for validation in a timely manner, the SPF asked the railway sector actors to submit the dossiers by 29 January. Currently, the FPS is analyzing the files submitted to it. It is therefore too early to communicate the list of railway projects to be defended by Belgium in the context of this call for projects. In addition to railway projects, projects relating to other modes of transport will also be defended by Belgium. Given the division of responsibilities within our country, applications for subsidies for other modes of transport will mainly be validated by the regional authorities. Finally, at the initiative of the Mobility and Transport FPS, the federal and regional administrations regularly consult each other to defend a coordinated Belgian position vis-à-vis the European Commission.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic089x.u10	Minister, I note that the date of February 26 will be well achieved and respected. I will not fail to question you at a later stage to find out which files have been filed. We know that there is no plethora of money – and that is little to say. Therefore, depriving ourselves of European co-financing for such important projects would be ridiculous. I therefore invite you to continue moving forward on this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic089x.u11	Madam President, my question is very brief. Indeed, I do not want to prevent the minister from working because of the length of my question. Madam Minister, your interview last week in La Libre Belgique caught my full attention. In fact, on this occasion, you have complained about the fact that, in your office, no Bruxellois were in charge of the overflight of Brussels, seeing this as proof of independence. Everyone will appreciate whether they do or not. I recognize that this aspect is anecdotal. But you also said that you had met the mayors of the municipalities concerned with this file. I simply note that I did not have the honour of being invited to your office. That said, for my part, I assume that you should not be sued for intent until you are aware of the outcome of your work. I will not claim, today, that you have a will oriented or not. I look forward to your proposals. As I have already told you when you took up your duties, in my view, you will not be able to get away with this matter if you do not propose significant structural measures. However, the relocation of some of the airport's activities is a necessity if things are to be calmed down. In short, I want to make sure that you are working well on a structural response, that it will be announced within the time frame you were initially considering. I also expect you to confirm that you will meet with all the stakeholders. If that is the case, I will not fail to respond to your invitation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic089x.u12	Madam President, dear colleague, I am pleased to invite you to my office. Maybe I didn't speak well. Still, I've met all the mayors who have asked for it. However, the return to the moratorium on 2 April 2014 will be in accordance with the decision of the July 31, 2014 Order. Any other instruction is not immediately on the agenda. After a necessary listening phase of associations, airport authorities and different levels of power, we have entered a phase of work and data collection on the overall problem of the overflight of Brussels. Public consultation is included in the government agreement. Each procedure for the creation or possible modification of an air route will have to be submitted to the Council of Ministers, after serious impact studies in terms of safety, capacity and environment, and after consultation with the public. Finally, the structural solution to the Brussels overflight issue is the aim to be achieved. But this is not possible, so soon after I took office. But be sure that I will make every effort to meet the deadlines.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic089x.u13	Since the minister invites me so kindly, I cannot, of course, refuse to go to her.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic089x.u14	Madam President, Madam Minister, the Flemish Commercial Court in Brussels delivered a judgment in mid-December last condemning - with the possibility of appeal - Infrabel and STIB to pay taxes on municipal roads. The measure thus endorsed a decision submitted in 2008 to the Energy Regulatory Commission in Brussels, Brugel. Infrabel and STIB called into question the validity of a tax on the maintenance of municipal roads introduced in 2007 through the introduction of the 'gas' and 'electricity' ordinances, which allowed the Brussels municipalities to face the abolition of a series of communal revenues due to the liberalisation of the energy market. Infrabel claimed more than 6 million payments under this tax and STIB challenged an amount of €2.7 million. In addition, these taxes were levied by distribution system operators, Sibelga and Elia, from distributors, Electrabel and EDF-Luminus, who sent invoices to Infrabel and STIB for the benefit of seven Brussels municipalities: Molenbeek Saint-Jean, Forest, Woluwe-Saint-Lambert, Watermael-Boitsfort, Jette, Etterbeek and Brussels-Ville. By way of information, the two companies had challenged this decision before the Council of State, which had declared itself to be incompetent in the matter, referring the parties concerned to the commercial court. Therefore, Madam Minister, I would like to ask you the following questions. What initiatives are being taken on this issue? Could you clarify to me the implications of this decision, including the possible amounts to be paid to the municipalities?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic089x.u15	Article 28(3) of Order 15 of the Brussels-Capital Region provides for an exemption from the tax for both Infrabel and STIB for consumption beyond 25 kilowatts per hour, which is globalised throughout the territory of the Brussels-Capital Region. The tax is payable by electricity system operators who can charge this tax to suppliers who, in turn, modify this tax in their pricing to end users. A specific regulation in pursuance of the said order and organizing the partial exemption of Infrabel and STIB from the payment of that municipal tax provided for in the order, has never been adopted. Regardless of the existence of enforcement orders, Infrabel requested the application of the exemption provided for in the order and decided to appeal the decision of the Brussels Commercial Court. STIB also follows this approach. There are no amounts to be transferred to the communes following the court's decision as the legal action tended to recover amounts already paid.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic089x.u16	I didn't expect another answer. The positions are thus clarified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic089x.u17	Madam President, Minister, at a previous committee meeting we discussed the reservation period for persons with disabilities and the ticket machine. This is a follow-up question with which I also respond to the answer I received at the time. I would like to continue to do so because I have received additional questions from various organisations. The petition is now growing, because by the end of January more than 4,000 people had signed that petition. This means that it is a fundamental problem and that it supports the demand for public transport to be opened up to people with disabilities. One of the reactions was from a resident of Heist-op-den-Berg and that reaction was indicative. That resident had requested assistance and the person concerned came from Brecht to Heist-op-den-Berg. He thinks it is illogical that he had to make such a move, but that has to do with the internal reorganisation. Well, if the support area for an assistant is so large, then we don't have to be alarmed that it takes 24 hours to get it organized. Madam Minister, there is a specific service to assist people with disabilities. How many people does that service count? Is it true that there have been many fewer people employed in that service recently? For the geographical coverage of my region, there is less than 50%. How has the geographical coverage area been designed?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic089x.u18	SNCB informs me that it is indeed true that some of the staff of the mobile shifts have switched to the chaste shifts. This is a result of internal restructuring following the merger of SNCB-Holding and SNCB. The tasks directly or indirectly related to train traffic remained with the Transport Directorate, the tasks related to maintenance and cleaning went to the Stations Directorate. That recast shall not affect the organisation of assistance for persons with disabilities. The 24 mobile teams intervene at stations where there are no on-site assistance staff or outside the hours of the presence of the assistance staff. These teams are evenly distributed across the rail network and the various major stations. Efforts were made to keep the movements as small as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic089x.u19	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. I do not agree with one point in your answer. You say the restructuring has no influence. From the grounds I hear that there is indeed an influence. Your answers to previous questions show that you certainly have the will to reduce the booking time. I therefore believe that, as part of the restructuring process, a better distribution should be ensured in the area coverage of the 24 mobile shifts.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic089x.u20	Madam President, Madam Minister, as you know, SNCB has a procedure in place to compensate users who too often have to deal with delays or train cancellations. This compensation service seems to be very much in demand. There are 105,000 cases registered in 2013, despite the considerable complexity of the procedure and the rigorous follow-up that requires the commuter to take rather heavy steps. It seems that simplification efforts can still be made and, Madam Minister, you have expressed your support and sensitivity. You recently received – I think it was February 2nd – associations defending users, including Test-Achats, around this issue that had collected 8,500 signatures from their members. In the area of simplification, initiatives are already in place to facilitate the collection of information. I am thinking of BeLate or, in another register, of an application that Test-Achats – so dear to Mr Cornu, in all senses of the word – has just made available, namely Late Train, which makes it possible to facilitate the filing of the claim for compensation. This is a step towards simplification, which will have to be implemented and followed by the good cooperation of SNCB. For the application to work, SNCB must accept the forms. Minister, can you tell me if there is any agreement on this following the Test-Achats initiative with SNCB? Will the forms introduced via the Late Train application be accepted by the SNCB services? What about the method of reimbursement itself? Will it be in the form of vouchers rather than in the form of a genuine cash repayment ringing and tripping? If one understands the disadvantages of a true reimbursement for SNCB, one can imagine that it would be preferable for users already affected by delays or cancellations. Is this track considered by SNCB? If not, what is the status of this consultation with SNCB?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic089x.u21	Madam President, Mr Cheron, consultation is more than ever at the heart of the relationship between SNCB and the external players who observe the functioning of the rail. With regard to the transport plan, the SNCB organised, for the first time in its history, a large-scale meeting campaign in March and then in June. This allowed all stakeholders to make questions and comments at the March session. Each of these questions has been analysed. An answer was given at the second meeting. Several times a year, SNCB organizes meetings with, among others, representatives of commuters, Test-Achats and various organizations representing young people, seniors and families. Test-Achats thus had the opportunity to read information and ask questions. In addition, SNCB proposed in its reply to Test-Achats's letter to meet with members of the association at the end of February.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic089x.u22	Madam Minister, as I understand it, the first elements of your answer relate to last year, with the reference to the months of March and June being only a reference to 2014. On the other hand, the approach to compensation is recent: it is indeed 2015. I do not consider that I have received a true answer. You simply confirm to me that these meetings have taken place by stating that one day something will result. As I have not received an answer, despite your tireless efforts, I will not fail to return to the burden of trying modestly – it is the ungrateful work of parliamentarians – to know whether the compensation process is effective. Not with coupons of value, but in the form of a real refund. In addition, Mr Cornu's remarks have caused me some concern, even though they have not been mentioned by Test-Achats. He said that if this procedure were to be activated, it would take him so much time and staff that perhaps it would be better to act in the direction of a shorter train delay. It would be pretty sensible if it were true. That is why I will not fail to come back with this question, which is a matter of trust with users. If, in addition to the delays, this refund were to be windy, it would mean that we would have been deceived twice.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic089x.u23	Madam Chair, Minister, as previously announced, SNCB introduced its new Tariff on Bord on February 1, 2015. This fare is valid for any casual traveller or subscriber who wishes to buy his ticket on the train. This gesture will now cost him 7 euros, to add up to the normal price of the ticket. Prior to 1 February 2015, it was indeed customary to pay a surcharge of 3 euros if the train attendant was notified and when the station was equipped with automatic boxes. The price of the supplement increased to EUR 12.5 if the traveller did not warn him. As you told us during a question-and-answer session / The supplement applied to the purchase of tickets is intended to facilitate the life of the controllers, to avoid discussion and is intended to harmonise the measures. It was not uncommon to see controllers forced to negotiate and justify measures with travellers, since each situation could lead to interpretation or misunderstanding. Some altercations have also led to an attack on the train attendant. We therefore stress the positive approach aimed at better protecting escorts and at the same time promoting greater clarity and harmonisation on the part of SNCB. We have already seen that in some cases this new tariff will not apply, for example when there is no ticket office at the station. Can you provide us with any other cases that may be exempt from this supplement? What will happen to late commuters who arrive after the windows are closed (or before opening)? Will they also be obliged to pay this supplement? Do you intend to standardize the implantation of automatons on all docks? Is it possible to pay in cash and/or by card? In addition to counters and automatons, are there other possibilities for obtaining a ticket before embarking? There was talk of a smartphone app, for example. It is not uncommon to find stations where the automatons are present on one of the two docks and not on both. Does the rule of this tax apply when the station is not equipped with automaton or just the boarding dock? Some occasional commuters have contacted us to clarify that there are discounts that cannot be enjoyed via automation machines, such as free tickets for employees of certain companies. I heard about Belgacom. To what extent do these special cases fall?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic089x.u24	Madam President, Madam Minister, since February 1st, the SNCB has decided to reduce to a single amount of EUR 7 the various surcharges applicable to travellers who purchase a ticket on board the train. There are many dissatisfactions with this measure. The commuter associations accuse this unique supplement of being applied systematically and in the same way to all, regardless of the circumstances. For example, it is cheaper than the EUR 12.5 fine previously payable by the unpackers on board without a transport ticket. This €7 surcharge is also higher than the €3 surcharge that passengers who warned the train attendant had to pay. However, SNCB has announced that this supplement will not apply to stations without automatic vending machines in running order. Minister, I would like to ask you the following questions. Can you clarify the situation in this regard? When and how is this €7 supplement actually applied on the ground?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic089x.u25	How many stations and stop points in our country do they have ATMs? What is the schedule for equipping other stations and stop points with ATMs? What is the procedure when these same distributors are out of use? How are train attendants made aware of these failures?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic089x.u26	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the traveller has several possibilities for purchasing his transport document before the trip. The following sales channels are available: internet, mobile apps, vending machines and vending machines. If the passenger has not purchased the ticket via one of these channels, the "Rate at Bord 7 euros" applies to the range of products sold by the train attendant, with the exception of products not available via the vending machine, the sale from a stop point without vending machine or vending machine, the sale from a stop point for which it is mentioned in the train attendant's sales system that the vending machine is out of service, in the event of a general breakdown of the system or Diabolo supplement for Brussels-National Airport. The installation of vending machines is carried out for each stop point after a thorough analysis of the situation. The aim is to have at least one vending machine for each breakpoint. There is therefore no vending machine on each of the docks at a station or stop point. Tickets and subscription validations can be paid using a credit card, credit and debit card, as well as for certain ATMs using coins. In single vending machines, the two payment options are provided. It is also possible to buy a ticket or to validate a subscription via the Internet. A ticket purchased online can be issued via a homeprint as well as electronically via the ID card. There is also the possibility to purchase an SMS ticket via the mobile website or mobile apps. These have recently been expanded so that they can be used not only via iPhone but also by Android users. All sales channels are available 24 hours a day. SNCB has entered into contracts with certain companies, such as Proximus (ex Belgacom). These employers provide their employees with transportation benefits in the form of so-called debet tickets. To be used, these tickets must be exchanged for a ticket corresponding to the intended route and the class of travel. Since this is not possible via vending machines, no surcharge is charged on board. If, however, the traveller wishes an extension of the planned journey or an upgrade, the surcharge must of course be paid at the fare on board. As of February 9, 2015, 520 sites, or 94% of boarding points, stations and stop points, have at least one operational ATM. In view of the installation costs considered too high in relation to the potential of travellers, 11 sites, i.e. 2%, will not be equipped. At the start of the breakpoints with a single automata, but which is defective, the 7 euros are not charged when purchasing a ticket on board. This is done automatically via the daily synchronization of the train attendant's mobile sales device. If, however, the ATM has just broken down, this surcharge will be properly charged and the traveller will apply to customer service for reimbursement.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic089x.u27	Madam Minister, thank you. Your answer clarifies the issues raised on this subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic089x.u28	Madam Minister, thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic089x.u29	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Janssen's 1910 was postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic089x.u30	Madam Secretary, in our country we have two MUG helicopters: one in Bruges and one in the region of Liège, I think. The Mug-helipilots in Bruges are a little troubled. This is actually a volunteer corps, consisting of retired military pilots who still want to make themselves useful. The age to fly with such a MUG helicopter is set at sixty years. The number of pilots that can do this work is very specific and limited. When a helicopter arrives in a serious accident, these are sometimes very dramatic situations and not everyone can handle them. When one still feels fit and healthy at the age of 60 and can continue, it appears that our legislation is not in line with that. Our legislation on the age of 60 in order to be allowed to fly would be based on a European directive that is being amended in different Member States. This is felt to be very unjust. Madam Secretary, are you considering lifting this age restriction? In other words, are you considering changing the 60-plus rule and allowing one to fly within Belgian borders? If you are not pursuing this, why not?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic089x.u31	We are talking about EU Regulation No. The Commission's proposal for a directive does not concern a directive. A European regulation has the immediate force of law in the 28 Member States of the Union and therefore Belgium cannot deviate from it. With regard to the limitation of the privileges of licence holders who are 60 years of age or older in commercial air transport, I can say the following. Between 60 and 64 years: the holder of a licence as a driver who has reached the age of 60 shall not act as a driver of an aircraft involved in commercial air transport, except as a member of a crew consisting of several drivers, and provided that the holder is the only driver of the crew who has reached the age of 60 years. From 65 years onwards, the holder of a pilot licence who has reached the age of 65 shall not serve as a driver of an air vehicle engaged in commercial air transport. As far as your last question is concerned, Belgium does not intend to deviate from the various international conventions to which our country is a party.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic089x.u32	Mr President, I would, of course, like to thank the Minister for her reply. This does put our MUG helicopters before a problem because the number of people who can do so is very limited. It's a volunteer force. If these persons are 60 years old and are limited in their exercise or are no longer allowed to practice it, who will succeed them? I think this is something that we should be able to take to a European summit. Indeed, there is a difference between commercial flights and non-commercial flights. This is a non-commercial flight. This is a matter of aid. I think that this is perhaps a very limited but important debate for the region.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic089x.u33	Madam Minister, we discussed the survey ourselves enough last week. I understand that on 2 February you had a consultation with Test-Achats on their proposals to re-involve the Ombudsman and to simplify the compensation system. I have already heard the answer thanks to Mr Cheron's question. What, however, were the results of the consultation on the Ombudsman? Have there been any other issues discussed?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic089x.u34	Mr Geerts, my intention is to further transform SNCB into a modern company in which the customer is central. All surveys and suggestions for improving services are therefore welcome and taken seriously. On February 2, 2015, I consulted with Test-Achats. The Test-Achats survey was conducted between April and May 2014. The complaints were therefore still based on the timetable of the previous transport plan. In the meantime, the new transport plan has entered into force. On 4 February 2015, the delegate directors of SNCB and Infrabel presented a first evaluation of the transport plan in the committee. In the course of the evaluation, SNCB also undertook to monitor complaints on a permanent basis and to make adjustments where possible. As you know, my intention is to further improve the service provision in the 2017 transport plan on which the consultation will be launched shortly. Negotiations with SNCB are under way on the simplification of compensation in the event of delays.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic089x.u35	Madam Secretary, I think I can tell from your answer that it was an interesting conversation. What I do not understand then is that the boat was held off when we asked earlier to invite Test-Achats to Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic089x.u36	Mr President, Madam Minister, the commuters in my region travelling to Luxembourg every day to get to work face problems as a result of changes in timetables. The IC 4640 train leaving Luxembourg station to Brussels at 17:46 is ideal for a large number of people finishing their work at 17:00. The problem is that this train does not stop in Marbehan. Minister, can you ask SNCB to look into the possibility of a stop at this station?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic089x.u37	Mr President, Mrs Poncelet, the trains of the IC+ relationship of which the IC 4640 train is part connects the most important stations between Brussels and Luxembourg, namely Namur which had 18,833 passengers boarded a day in 2013, Libramont which had 2,496 and Arlon which had 4,100 passengers that same year. The Marbehan train station, which had 898 passengers boarded a day in 2013, is served by the Brussels-Luxembourg IC relationship, which circulates every hour, as well as by the L Libramont-Arlon relationship. This offer is supplemented in peak hours by P trains to match demand. It is not SNCB's intention to mark additional stops with IC+ trains. The usefulness of these trains is precisely to offer a faster link between the most important stations on the Brussels-Luxembourg axis. These trains contribute to the international role of line 162, which is very important to many players in the province of Luxembourg. Moreover, because of the work involving single-track services, it is technically impossible to mark an additional stop with these trains today.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic089x.u38	Mr President, Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. The position of SNCB is somewhat regrettable in that the timetable is quite ideal for the workers concerned, especially since the supply is limited.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic089x.u39	Mr President, Madam Minister, in the context of Infrabel's 2015 budget, savings had to be made in order to balance it. A number of works and investments had thus to be postponed. My interest and my questioning today relate to the lines that are affected by these different budget carry-overs. It is my responsibility that 50 % of the catenary renewal work will be cancelled on the least used lines in Wallonia, which could eventually lead to a loss of quality and therefore the safety of these infrastructures. It is also a question of deferring some critical track renewal work on fine service lines, which are also the least used lines. This type of deferral could result in the decommissioning of certain sections. The civil engineering work between Habay and Arlon of the Brussels-Luxembourg axis modernisation programme will be spread and the implementation of this programme postponed to 2022, modernisation work which began in 2007! This information again casts doubt on the sustainability of these railway infrastructures. You have repeatedly said that you are sensitive to the provision of public services, particularly in rural areas. I therefore count on you to maintain a quality offer and infrastructure. Without a high-quality supply and infrastructure, we risk seeing the abolition of some trains and the imminent death of some lines. The inhabitants of rural areas do not agree to pay cash the price of the savings to be realized by Infrabel, including the postponement of investments. Minister, do you confirm this information? If so, can you specify which lines will be affected by these investment carry-overs?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic089x.u40	Mr President, Mrs Poncelet, work began in 2007. Thus, work on the modernisation of the Brussels-Luxembourg axis continues. Infrabel has taken certain measures concerning the temporal organisation of various construction sites, notably on a re-electrification site between Habay and Arlon. The consequences of this reorganization can only be assessed when the IPP itself is updated. This update will begin after a modernisation plan has been drawn up with the aim of preserving as many resources as possible for investment. If you know any delays, I will return to Luxembourg for a fourth time to explain that the work continues. If we make so many investments, we want to safeguard these rural lines.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic089x.u41	Mr President, Madam Minister, the delays were not the subject of my question: they were investment deferrals. Thank you for the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic089x.u42	Madam Minister, the desirability of a railway stop on line 36 at Haasrode Researchpark has been expressed several times in recent years. It was recently re-emphasised at the mayor's meeting of the Leuven region, and it was also discussed with SNCB and with Infrabel in August 2014. Afterwards, a limited exploratory study was carried out into the feasibility of opening this railway stop in the short term. This was done in the Regional Network Working Group, including representatives of Infrabel and SNCB. The working group identified the steps needed to integrate the opening of this station into the railway investment and operation planning. As a result, in order to include Haasrode's operation in the Trace Plan for the period 2017 and subsequent, a convincing dossier should be submitted to the transport company SNCB at the end of March 2015. With the immediate proximity of many companies in this artisan and industrial area, the activity hall and congress center Brabanthal, and the campus of the Catholic University of Leuven, and in the far future the possibility of a multifunctional football stage there, a station near Haasrode Researchpark, in view of the large traffic flow that is already there today to and from this zone and the high traffic pressure associated with it, means a response to the mobility pressure around this zone. My questions to you are therefore the following. Firstly, can you tell me if the arrival of a train station in Haasrode Researchpark has already been included in the planning of the Trace Plan for the period 2017 and subsequent? Secondly, what is the status of this dossier? What documents have already been introduced to SNCB? What documents are still awaited? Thirdly, which actors have been contacted by SNCB on this dossier? Has the province of Flemish Brabant contacted SNCB about this? Fourthly, when can you see, in a favourable assessment, the arrival of this railway stop? Thank you in advance for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic089x.u43	Madam Minister, Mr Van Hoof has pointed this out very well, for years there has been a demand in Haasrode for a new railway station on the industrial site. This would greatly improve the accessibility and accessibility of the industrial area as well as the nearby football stadium. The subject has also been raised several times in the past legislature, among others by Mr Theo Francken, who is now Secretary of State. At the city council of Leuven, the mayor also referred to the file. He would have had several exchanges of views with the SNCB CEO, Mr Cornu, on the subject. That is why I have a number of questions. What's the plan? Is the realization of the new station still coming? What would the timing and cost be? Has there been any thought about working with De Lijn for that train station?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic089x.u44	Ms Hufkens, the arrival of a train station in Haasrode Researchpark is not included in the planning of the future train service 2017 and is not included in the multiannual investment plan either. A market investigation should initially be carried out. If the market potential for the installation of a new stop can be demonstrated, the technical and financial feasibility should then be examined, including the feasibility for the train service, the feasibility of the accessibility and installation of the stop, the multimodal impact and the cost-benefit analysis. Depending on the results of those studies, the works may be eligible for inclusion in the updated multi-annual investment plan. There is indeed a working group called Regionet Leuven, which has put forward the opening of the Haasrode stop. The province of Flemish Brabant was also part of the working group, but had no further contact with SNCB.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic089x.u45	Madam Minister, I understand from your reply that it has not been included today, but that it is possible, through additional studies, to do so, on the basis of market potential. It probably has to be delivered this year to be included in the updated version of the Trace Plan. That's what I'm assuming. At least we are working on it from the region, also from the city of Leuven and the province of Flemish Brabant. I am surprised that they are not involved because they have already analysed the use of public transport from this area. I am surprised that you do not have this study in your hands, because it has already been carried out.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic089x.u46	Madam Secretary, thank you for your explanation. Apparently, we still have to wait a long time for some studies. I hope that there will be a quick look at it and that the green light will also be given to Leuven when that request comes in. It's actually very important. The fact that that study of the province of Flemish Brabant is not in the hands of SNCB is a very strange fact.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic089x.u47	Mr. President, Minister, the Mobility and Transportation FPS organizes a survey every three years for employers in both the private and public sectors to learn about the patterns of workers moving between their homes and their workplaces. This diagnosis has already taken place in 2005, 2008, 2011 and was submitted in 2014. It turns out that the questionnaire is much heavier than it appears. However, it is the employer's duty to collect and synthesize a large amount of information. This is a considerable waste of time! In these difficult budgetary times for many companies, both private and public, where staff often have to be reduced - as is also seen in the municipalities - it is clear that the workload required is quite considerable. Madam Minister, would it not be possible to review the way this survey is conducted, if not this time, perhaps for the next time? Would there not be a way, for example, to set up an online platform where each employee could complete their data?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic089x.u48	Dear colleague, the workload requested of employers in connection with the diagnosis of commuting is an ongoing concern of my administration. Between 2011 and 2014, the questionnaire and procedures were considerably simplified in collaboration with the social partners, while preserving the maximum value added of the survey. These simplifications are bearing fruit in the field since, at the beginning of February, the number of surveys already completed was 50% higher than the number of surveys completed on the same date in 2011. In particular, an optional computer application has been developed so that, as you suggest, employees can individually encode the mode of travel they use to get to work. This application then gathers the results in the appropriate format, which directly simplifies the work of public enterprises and institutions. The obligation to respond to the inquiry, however, remains with the employer. In addition to obtaining accurate statistics, the aim is to encourage and provide the basis for employers to think or rethink the mobility of their workers. My administration will carry out an evaluation of the investigation process at the end of the investigation, in consultation with stakeholders and actors in the field. All new proposals to improve it and make it as effective and useful as possible for better mobility will then be considered.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic089x.u49	Madam Minister, thank you. Your answer is quite in line with what I wanted. It would be interesting to know the results, monitoring and improvements that had been made to the process following the investigations conducted in 2005, 2008 and 2011.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic089x.u50	Madam President, Madam Minister, I would like to ask you in response to your statement about your willingness to set up a specific urban and suburban network in Brussels. This network will be set up on the existing infrastructure, already well overcrowded in rush hour, until the work for the RER is completed, if I have read correctly. Minister, what will be the impact of setting up this urban and suburban network for the province of Walloon Brabant, on the immediate outskirts of Brussels? What impact will it have on lines 161 Ottignies - Louvain-la-Neuve and 124 to Nivelles? Is the implementation of this umpteenth plan not likely to further delay the work of the ER? Finally, are meetings with Walloon Brabant representatives on the agenda to discuss the implementation of this new plan?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic089x.u51	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the rail offer in and around Brussels is an integral part of the SNCB transport plan which came into force on 15 December. The establishment of a specific urban and suburban network in Brussels is therefore part of the development of this transport plan. It takes into account the infrastructure available, in particular lines 124 and 161, which are still under construction, and the budgetary requirements of SNCB. The new transport plan also foresees that from December 2015, following the opening of the Schuman-Josaphat tunnel, the Dinant-Schaerbeek and Charleroi-Brussels-Luxembourg relations will be extended to the airport via this tunnel, thereby improving the offer between the Walloon Brabant and the Brussels agglomeration. The transport plan will be reviewed in December 2017 [[technical incident]] This strengthening of sub-urban supply [[technical incident]] ... with local actors as in any major change in its transport plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic089x.u52	Madam Minister, thank you for your answers. We will certainly have an opportunity to discuss this by 2017, when further changes are made.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic089x.u53	Madam Minister, a study by SNCB, Infrabel and De Lijn shows that the Hasselt-Neerpelt train link could attract no less than 6 436 passengers on a working day. As many as 88 % of those travelers use the car today. According to the study, the train connection can be restarted relatively quickly. The bed is still there and the train orders would be available. The Spartacus rapid tram would require a separate bed. Moreover, previous research has shown that the train is best suited to unlocking North Limburg by public transport. A reactivation of the Hasselt-Neerpelt railway line is also one of the priority rail projects put forward by the Flemish Region. However, the rail link is not yet part of Infrabel's investment plan 2013-2025. Negotiations between the Federal Government and the Regions on the priority projects are still ongoing. When will they be completed? In view of the results of the study, will you put the Hasselt-Neerpelt rail link on the table during these negotiations? Will you argue to include the connection in Infrabel's investment plan 2013-2025? Can you estimate the cost of reactivation of that railway line?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic089x.u54	The multiannual investment plan for the period 2013-2025 will be reviewed in the following months. It goes without saying that the priorities of the regions so far expressed will also be reviewed. The establishment of the budgetary envelope for the priorities of the Regions will be a key factor in determining which projects can be taken into account. Infrabel estimated the cost of reactivating the out-of-service section in 2012 at around EUR 190 million.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic089x.u55	Madam President, Minister, re-launching the rail link would be an important step towards better opening up the north of Limburg. During last week's hearing with the CEOs, I indicated that Limburg has been treated stepmotherly for years. The opening is dramatic and yet this opening is absolutely necessary for the recovery and further development of the economy of the heavily affected province of Limburg. Mobility and the environment will also benefit because more than 5 000 people would leave the car in front of the train. The railway is a priority for the Flemish government. Your colleague, Ben Weyts, confirmed this last week in the Flemish Parliament. The ball is now a bit in the SNCB Group camp. Studies have shown that the classic train is the best option for this connection. There is sufficient passenger potential and the railway bed is there. How many additional arguments do we really need? You are profiling yourself as a minister who intends to make some change in a Log State. Today we notice that the Flemish Region wants to participate in the idea to reactivate the Hasselt-Neerpelt railway line. You can profile yourself here to finally unlock Limburg.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic089x.u56	Madam President, Madam Minister, we cannot open up the newspapers or it is about the waste at SNCB. In Het Laatste Nieuws on 6 February 2015, you say you are shocked by the waste you discover every day at SNCB. You say that some people have even put their careers at the forefront of the interests of the traveller and that more could easily be saved at SNCB than laid down in the government agreement and in the budget. You are working on a modernisation plan to be completed by March or April, so I am not going to ask you about the timing. Can you explain the waste you've discovered at SNCB? What are the main lines of the modernisation plan? What will you bet on in particular? You say that you have discovered that some people have put their careers first, who is that about and how many people are it about?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic089x.u57	Madam President, this government is determined to make SNCB a financially sound business, the debt evolution since 2008 is unsustainable. We must now intervene so that SNCB can continue to carry out its public service tasks in the future. SNCB and Infrabel will present their financial objectives in a new business plan. It is clear that in this context there will be a thorough reflection on the efficient use of resources within these organisations. In the coming months, the aim is to further develop a modernisation plan aimed at combating waste of resources and setting ambitious targets, inter alia, on punctuality and service provision. There are no taboos for me, but we do not want to reopen the debate on the structures. First of all, there is a need for a new mindset in which the customer is at the centre. Business culture must also evolve. Business processes will be vetted and tested for their added value to travellers. As already mentioned, branches will also be screened for their contribution to public service tasks. We will also review the investment priorities. Much is being invested in renovation projects of large stations while much smaller stations are neglected. Finally, the supervisory authority itself must assume its responsibility to make SNCB a more efficient business.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic089x.u58	Madam Secretary, thank you for the answer. Your answer is in line with our vision of SNCB. I wish you every success in cleaning up the waste at SNCB. I'm also glad you said there's no taboos. We believe that a number of taboos must be lost in the recovery and restructuring of SNCB. It is, of course, important for the traveller to remain at the centre of the whole saving operation. You have said that you will pay sufficient attention to this. I didn't really get an answer to the question about the people who had their careers primed. I understand that this is about personal data that may be sensitive.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic089x.u59	Madam President, Minister, since the introduction of SNCB's new transportation plan, negative returns continue to rain. In the district of Huy-Waremme, two municipalities decided to react actively. On the one hand, it is Waremme and, on the other, Wanze. In Waremme, a station frequented by hundreds of commuters (workers and students) who travel daily to Liège or Brussels, the consequences are dramatic. Between daily delays, the elimination of trains, longer journey times and the deterioration of services, commuters are at the end! They therefore seized the municipal authorities. Thus, at the initiative of the mayor of the city, Jacques Chabot, a letter co-signed by ten mayors of the neighbouring communes and by the municipality of Gingelom, a twin town, was addressed to you. The same letter was also sent to the managing director of SNCB. In parallel to these political steps, a citizens' initiative was launched, with a demonstration scheduled this Sunday, 22 February, at 10 a.m. in Waremme train station. In Wanze, the Communal Council unanimously voted on a motion opposing the abolition of stoppages of state-of-the-art trains and IC trains at Statte station. Indeed, it is unacceptable that the service to the Statte station should be largely deconstructed by the transport plan, while SNCB had fully committed itself to participating in the success of the inter-municipal mobility plan which made the Statte station a strong element. This motion was sent to you. Minister, I will not ask you about the overall problem of the transportation plan. I would just like to know how you intend to react to the initiative of the mayors, of all tendencies, who have denounced these facts to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic089x.u60	Madam President, Mr Demeyer, the offer between Waremme and Brussels has been adapted as part of the new transport plan. The peak offer was reduced by one train in the morning to Brussels and in the evening to return. However, a half-hour offer was maintained during the two-hour peak in the morning and evening to ensure the return of commuters, in accordance with the request. During the day, the offer is identical to the old transport plan, i.e. an hourly relationship to Brussels. At the level of the journey times, these have increased from 51 minutes to 56 minutes for the IC relationship between Waremme and Brussels-Nord. This lengthening of travel times is due to work programmed by Infrabel between Waremme and Louvain, as well as to Schaerbeek. For commuters travelling to Liège, the supply during peak hours remained the same for the number of trains: eight between 6 a.m. and 9 a.m. and six between 4 p.m. and 7 p.m. for return. In terms of regularity, SNCB has detected some specific problems on this line and is making every effort to limit these problems and their consequences. You will certainly be invited shortly, because I go to Waremme on March 11 to meet all the mayors who wrote to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic089x.u61	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic089x.u62	I hope you'll be here on March 11, Mr. Mayor.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic089x.u63	The minister is making appointments to everyone today. She's gonna have a full agenda!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic089x.u64	Madam Minister, I am reminded that a linguistic problem arose in early January in the municipality of Zaventem, following the distribution by Infrabel of a unilingual French information brochure, which was offended immediately by an échevin of the said commune with the spokesman for Infrabel. Allow me to consider that if, in fact, a unilingual French brochure distributed by Infrabel in this municipality of the Dutch-speaking region constitutes an infringement of the laws on the use of languages in administrative matters, I would point out that, pursuant to Article 40(2) of those laws – "the notices and communications which the central services make directly to the public are drawn up in French and Dutch; the same applies to the forms which they themselves make available to the public" – Infrabel as a central service has the right to distribute brochures directly in French and Dutch, even in a municipality without a special regime in the Dutch-speaking region. This is the case of Zaventem, where, I would remind you, a large French-speaking minority lives. However, this same alderman continues to publicly challenge this legal reality, while in terms of information, you will agree with me that the French-speaking population of Zaventem is entitled to the same treatment to the extent that the law grants it. Therefore, Madam Minister, since you are competent to enforce the language legislation, can you confirm to me that Infrabel has the right, in accordance with the above-mentioned article, to distribute a brochure in both languages in Zaventem?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic089x.u65	Dear colleague, an external supplier commissioned by Infrabel for the distribution of brochures committed an inversion when handling cartons containing the French and Dutch versions of the booklet "Dear neighbour, did you know that...". As a result of this error, the brochures in French were distributed in the municipality of Zaventem. Informed, Infrabel reacted immediately by programming a new distribution of leaflets in Dutch, which was carried out very quickly. It should be noted that this document, which aims to recall the consequences of the proximity of the lanes, mentions in particular the various channels that may be used by residents who are anxious to come into contact with Infrabel. They can use a free telephone number that is accessible seven days a week, from 07:00 to 22:00, send their requests by e-mail or visit the website. All these channels are of course accessible in Dutch and French and are managed by a professional and efficient unit that has enjoyed ISO 9001 certification for several years. This recognition implies that Infrabel's communication to these residents is part of a policy of continuous improvement.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic089x.u66	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. The case law of the Standing Committee on Linguistic Control considers that SNCB's brochures constitute opinions and communications which central services make directly to the public and which must be written in French and Dutch. This is Opinion 30/224 of 2 September 1999. Since this opinion of Infrabel is likely to be of interest to the French-speaking population of Zaventem, I think it is necessary to remind the local authorities that they cannot prohibit the use of French if Infrabel proposes to repeat a similar information operation. If there was a way to transmit information in both languages, it would be so much easier for these mixed populations in some communes.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic089x.u67	Madam Secretary, I will be very brief. As you know, today there is still a discount card for large families, a 50% reduction card for the whole family, if the family counts at least three children. De Lijn has already abolished the discount card in Flanders. The fear of the Family Union and other organisations is now that this is also a possible slope for SNCB. Since we must not only monitor, but also think proactively sometimes, I ask your view on whether or not to abolish the discount card for large and young families.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic089x.u68	Mr Geerts, various provisions of the management contract with SNCB are currently being discussed. It is too early to reach conclusions today. The charging of SNCB has become so complex that simplification has now become absolutely necessary. For specific target groups, such as young people and families, which contribute to the success of rail transport, different options are on the table. Any adjustment will be part of a well-thought-out package of measures.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic089x.u69	In support of sensible measures, I would like to put this question proactively. It is indeed too early for a conclusion, but once the decision has been taken, we often get blamed for being too late with our comments. I therefore hope that the invoice will not be sent to the families again.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic089x.u70	Madam Secretary, last week in this committee I asked questions about Park Spoor Oost. Now it is about another region within the Antwerp agglomeration, namely Park Spoor Noord. That part of town is actually booming. There is concern that the Antwerp-Dam station, currently closed due to works, would remain closed. In my question, I explained why reopening the Antwerp-Dam station would be important for the region and the region. At Artesis High School, nearby, there are 5,000 students. There will also be a new hospital to be built, new housing developments and more. I have already raised the importance of creating a kind of regional express network around large cities, not only around Brussels, but also around Antwerp, Ghent, Liège and Charleroi. Now my question is really about a GEN in Antwerp. Madam Secretary, can you confirm that Antwerp-Dam is reopening? What's the timing for that? What would be the cost of opening a station or stop in Antwerp-Dam? I am asking this question because last week I had a discussion with the CEO of Infrabel on the charging of stops and lane fees and whether or not they are useful. I would certainly like to continue this discussion, so I would like to say to the representatives of Infrabel that this debate has not been concluded for me. Has SNCB calculated how many passengers could be attracted by reopening the Antwerp-Dam station?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic089x.u71	SNCB is carrying out a global study on all stops on the rail network and this study is based on a multimodal vision. The cost of a stop depends on the equipment and the infrastructure offered. When the stop place Antwerp-Dam was closed in 2011, another 100 passengers a day left. Between 2000 and 2011, a decreasing trend was apparent.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic089x.u72	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. There are new developments in this area, and I know that there are budgetary constraints. As in the case of Hasselt, I believe that this station has effective potential, especially within the framework of the GEN.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic089x.u73	To a written question, I read your answer on the suicides that unfortunately still happen too much on our railways. In 2013, there were 200 attempts, with 97 people dying. There have been several hearings and questions put by fellow Members in this committee. Infrabel drew up an action plan with tough and soft measures. Last week in Leuven they organized a sensitization campaign while people were shopping. That was good. Unfortunately, we're seeing an increase. It's not Infrabel's fault, it's a social thing. That is why I would like to dwell a little longer in this committee. The action plan has been in place for years. Can you give us an update? What additional measures can be taken? Do you have an evaluation of the measures taken? At the time, it was always said that there would be consultation with the various authorities on this issue. What steps were taken in this regard? How does the feedback and framework of train guides go? That should not be underestimated. I have already had the debate on recovery with your predecessors. I didn't think it was possible for relatives who had lost a loved one to receive a recovery. They were financially punished. At that time, it was agreed to demand recovery only if there was family insurance. Is this policy still in place today?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic089x.u74	The most important measures include mapping out the hotspots related to suicides and this in consultation with many institutions, placing in service a public emergency number through the security operations centre, providing training to, inter alia, security agents to detect signals indicating intention of suicide, making arrangements with, inter alia, local authorities in order to enhance the safety of, for example, stations and railway installations. Sensitisation projects were also launched, in consultation with numerous experts and professional aid workers. On the so-called hotspots special equipment is provided such as the application of blue lights on the platforms and this in the vicinity of psychiatric institutions, the installation of thermal cameras can help detect intentions of suicide. Work is often carried out on the basis of pilot projects. For three years, Infrabel participated in the RESTRAIL project, a European project launched by the European Commission in 2011 with a view to reducing suicide on the track. There is consultation with local authorities and psychiatric institutions in the vicinity of railways, with self-help groups, scientific institutions up to and including other foreign infrastructure managers. Suicide is considered a critical incident. Immediately after an incident, the train driver is taken in by an auxiliary worker trained for that purpose. Under no circumstances does the train driver continue his services. After this first care, there is an opportunity for even more thorough professional guidance, for example a prevention counsellor-work physician or a prevention counsellor-psychologist. The procedure I spoke about on 10 December 2014 still applies.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic089x.u75	Madam Minister, you confirm that the rules on recovery still apply in the context of a family policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic089x.u76	That's right.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic089x.u77	Madam Secretary, in an interview in Het Laatste Nieuws, you mentioned the overpaid directors at Infrabel and SNCB. I was surprised, because in the previous legislature, I was in the gallery several times in the debate on correct pay pressure. At that time, I was often critically opposed by colleagues from Open Vld and MR. It was said then that if you pay peanuts, you get Monkeys and I was a cryptocommunist who advocated wage restraint. Those were the wordings in the majority consultation. That's okay. I don't have a problem with that. At that time, we felt that there should be an absolute return to a realistic wage tension between the summit and the base. That was a very difficult battle and the people who followed the debates can probably testify to it. I was very surprised, but nevertheless pleasantly surprised, when I heard that you wanted to cut the wages of the well-paid managers. Mrs De Coninck also asked a question earlier, but she received a rather woolly answer. That is why I am asking very specific and simple questions. How many high-paying directors are there? What is the definition of overpaid directors? How do you plan to get a new pay strain? What contracts will you have to renegotiate? What procedure will you use?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic089x.u78	I will give you a very objective answer. In a table I have sent you, you will find an overview of some of the employees of the SNCB Group, broken down by scale. You will find, like me, that there are already five people who earn more than the CEO in the organization.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic089x.u79	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. I'll have the table copied immediately for everyone, but I'll tweet it first. [[Laughter.]] I think it is a very good initiative to re-establish a healthy wage pressure in public enterprises. However, there must be a definition of the concept of wage tension, so that objective determination is possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic089x.u80	If you have the number of 40,710 employees, when we say everywhere that there are 37,000, it is because in the same year, for example, there are departures in February and arrivals in June, but both are accounted for.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic089x.u81	Question No 2127 by Mrs Fabienne Winckel is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic089x.u82	Madam President, Minister, as you know – you don't live far away and you like to party – Tuesday gras in Binche is an event that attracts tens of thousands of people every year. For two years now, the SNCB has been refusing to set up a special train dedicated to the return of tourists a day after the fireworks. The absence of such a train causes a whole series of inconveniences on several levels: mobility in the city, additional dangers on the return route. As a reminder, the SNCB operated such a train on Tuesday night until the last two years. Minister, can you tell us why the SNCB did not set up a special train? Is it possible that in the future we would have a special train again assigned to the return of tourists one day after the fireworks on Tuesday's gras in Binche?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic089x.u83	Madam President, Mr Devin, as in previous years, SNCB plans two additional trains to Brussels on 17 February 2015. These are not scheduled trains but special trains that SNCB is putting into service for the Binche Carnival. The last special train to Brussels will start from Binche at around 10:11 p.m. so that passengers to Mons and Charleroi will have their connections to La Louvière-Sud. By delaying the last special train, passengers to Mons and Charleroi would find themselves blocked in La Louvière, which could displease some travellers and lead to complaints from them. SNCB has also proactively contacted the city on this issue. The city has confirmed that we give priority to this correspondence. Meanwhile, the City of Binche and SNCB have communicated the schedules of these special trains. In addition to these special trains, SNCB will strengthen some trains leaving Binche on Tuesday night. Last year, the two special trains were not overloaded.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic089x.u84	Minister, you are right about the city's position. Contrary to what the services of SNCB communicate to you, the city of Binche does not agree with this proposal. It's very simple. It's like in Mons, the special train leaves just before the Lucheson's fight. People want to stay and see the fight. In Binche, they want to see the fireworks with all the Gilles who are present. Actually, there are fewer people on the train, because at that time, they're still partying. They don't want to go home at that time. Both special trains, I just said what I think. I register in false total as the mayor of the city of Binche in relation to what is given as information by the services of the SNCB regarding the priority of the city. One last comment: I will really make sure that the city of Binche and the Central Region are treated with almost the same attention as a few other regions, where there are special trains and free buses, where everything is done so that people can arrive in the best conditions and leave at the right time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic089x.u85	You need to contact Elio!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic089x.u86	Minister, avoid such comments!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic089x.u87	Madam President, Minister, with respect to the new SNCB transportation plan, Mr Geerts, I heard the OCE's satisfaction last week, but I see what it has been like since. The new SNCB transport plan was launched on 14 December. After a few weeks of operation, despite the explanations given by the SNCB bosses, we can indeed say that success is not on the table, it is enough to see the number of questions on the agenda today. For example, on the Binche-La Louvière-Brussels line, travellers find themselves, in addition to an increase in travel times that cannot be justified, using old equipment, which is not adapted to the needs, without heating or air conditioning. But that's not all. In fact, very often on this same line, three times more recently, travellers taking the evening trains towards Binche see their service limited to the station of La Louvière-Sud. There was no response from CEOs on this subject last week. This leaves the Leval and Binche commuters with no alternative but to wait for the next scheduled train an hour later or to return home by other means. They are simply told that they have to get off the train at La Louvière. They're told everything's fine, but they don't live it that way. They have no alternative but to wait for the next train, scheduled an hour or fifty or forty minutes later, or to return home by other means. Of course, Madam Minister, if this train is abolished, no alternative is offered to travellers and the lack of information, already denounced last week, is constant. Can you provide us with the reasons SNCB has put forward to explain these limitations of service at La Louvière-Sud station? How do you explain the lack of communication to commuters who are subject to these service limitations? When and how do you intend to put in place better communication with commuters? How do you explain the absence of an alternative in case of train deletion? Do you think about the future offering alternatives in this particular case? What about collaboration with other public transport companies?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic089x.u88	In case of too much delay, it can be decided in real time to delete part of the track of a train. Thus the IC Turnhout-Binche trains that depart to Turnhout 40 minutes after their arrival in Binche can be limited in real time so as not to delay the delay in the other direction. For the evening peak time, leaving Brussels-Midi between 15:30 and 18:30, i.e. four IC trains and one P train, there are only two IC train limitations in January 2015 at Louvière Sud and only one P train deletion on its entire route. SNCB has provided for the communication of such limitations to take place in real time via the attendant, station announcements and computer applications available in real time. The SNCB or TEC equipment and personnel required to complete the replacement route are not frequently available for an alternative to these limitations. SNCB confirms to me that it is making every effort to minimize these inconveniences. I inform you that I will meet my Walloon Mobility College this Friday.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic089x.u89	I thank the Minister for her response. I repeat that we must work on this issue. I know that she is not responsible for carrying out this transport plan. However, we cannot leave things as they are, which is more by saying that everything is fine. It is essential to be able to hear the reality of the field. I sincerely say this: complaints are almost daily. When people have modern equipment, and then they end up with 1975 equipment, without heating, without air conditioning, while before the equipment was modern, double-storey... something is wrong. No one can accept it. In addition to such delays, following the hearing of the CEOs, the train took more than three hours to reach Brussels. I say it here, and it takes two minutes. For them, it's very difficult every day. The additional psychosocial burden needs to be measured. We'll see each other very regularly.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic089x.u90	Perhaps you would like to organize a meeting in your area? It'll be my pleasure.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic089x.u91	We have a meeting soon, with all the mayors.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic089x.u92	Invite SNCB, in this way we will see the screening of everything that has happened and we will see what solutions we can bring.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic089x.u93	We will see what we will do together from the Central Region. On Minister Di Antonio, I agree with you. We need to see him and act with coordination. Before that, it would be good if the train went to the end, and the minister was not needed at a time when things were not going well.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic089x.u94	We need to prepare for the consultation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic089x.u95	I say it very constructively.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic089x.u96	Question No 2133 by Mr André Frédéric is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic089x.u97	Madam Minister, we would recently learn that SNCB would demand compensation from Siemens Transport for at least EUR 60 million for recurrent technical damage on Desiro trains. You yourself have recently deplored that the Desiro trains of the German manufacturer still do not reach the required level of reliability, despite an improvement program of 80 points. Indeed, it would appear that Desiro trains suffer technical damage every 8,000 kilometres. This obviously has a very negative impact on the performance of the public undertaking, particularly with regard to the punctuality of trains. Madam Minister, about the state of relations between SNCB and the German manufacturer, how long has the contract for the purchase of Desiro trains been in place? How many Desiro trains does this contract carry? Is the compensation claimed by SNCB part of the contract with Siemens Transport? If so, for what breach of contract is this compensation claimed? More generally, can you give us more information on the technical situation of the equipment used by SNCB (types of machine, number held, year of construction, manufacturer)? With regard to the use of Desiro trains, on which lines are they used? Is there a willingness on the part of the public undertaking to use machines other than Desiro trains in the medium and long term?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic089x.u98	Mr Devin, Desiro's equipment was ordered on May 15, 2008. Three slices were ordered, namely: 1: 95 single-voltage motors, slice 2: 95 dual-voltage motors and slice 3: 115 single-voltage motors. The principles of compensation are as follows: the contract provides penalties for various types of problems such as delivery delays, lack of reliability, capital assets, etc. To date, EUR 25 million have been claimed and paid by Siemens. The amount of $60 million, quoted in some media, does not correspond to penalties actually applied, but to penalties that could be considered if the situation of the equipment did not improve. I will give you a document setting out, on the one hand, the technical situation of the equipment used by the SNCB and, on the other hand, the lines on which the Desiros are currently assigned. The Desiro trains will, of course, continue to be used by SNCB, giving priority to their assignment to the RER around Brussels and to local services with little traffic.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic089x.u99	Madam President, Madam Minister, recently the Belgian Institute for Road Safety (IBSR) published the results of its national survey on road safety. The IBSR found a decline in the personal sense of safety felt by the users surveyed. In particular, the weakest users – cyclists, motorcyclists and moped riders – feel this insecurity most strongly. In this regard, Minister, I would like to ask you the following questions. What concrete measures are you planning to put in place to combat this feeling of road insecurity, especially for the weakest users? After several months as Minister for Road Safety, what initiatives have you already taken in this regard? Previously, in response to a parliamentary question I asked you here, you stated that 40 million road checks will be carried out during the current parliamentary term. I can only be glad to see that you are taking this problem very seriously. However, given the government's willingness to put public services on the diet, I wonder how these additional controls will be carried out and with what means, given that there will be less. I therefore look forward to your reflections on this subject. Finally, we regularly read in the press that the creation of a point permit would be in the cards of the government. Can you tell us clearly your position and that of the government on the introduction of a point permit in our country?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic089x.u100	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the IBSR survey in our country shows an increase in subjective road insecurity among weak users. Unfortunately, accident figures for the first 9 months of 2014 also show an increase in objective insecurity, due in particular to a significant increase in the number of victims among cyclists. Belgium is part of the European Union's goal of halving the number of road deaths by 2020. The achievement of this ambitious objective requires joint and coordinated action by all those responsible for road safety in this country, both at federal and regional and even municipal level. Within the framework of the special law on institutional reform, the centre of gravity for road safety has moved a little more towards the Regions: they are now responsible for awareness-raising and education, as well as speed – off motorways – and driving training. Let us not forget that the infrastructure, particularly as regards facilities for weak users, already belongs to the Regions and the municipalities. I will therefore endeavour to consult in particular with the Regions, but also with my federal colleagues in the Interior and Justice, to implement action plans, with a view to achieving European objectives at national level. To this end, I believe that the recommendations of the 2011 Road Safety General Statements should be assessed and updated in conjunction with the Regions. An interim evaluation will be organised this year. The government agreement makes it clear that the government will strive to ensure that one in three drivers are checked for alcohol, drugs or seatbelts. Forty million vehicles will be checked for speed, which can be achieved through automated controls. The last Bob campaign demonstrated that the same level of control over driving alcohol can be maintained. Moreover, in order to achieve the objectives of monitoring, I have regular contacts with my colleague from the Interior of the police. With regard to point permits, I also refer to the government agreement which attaches great importance to the systematic approach to recidivism. Various avenues, including point permits, will be explored as to their effectiveness in curbing recidivism.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic089x.u101	Mr Devin.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic089x.u102	On the point permit, Minister?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic089x.u103	In the government agreement, this is one of the ways to combat recidivism. What we're going to do is implement everything that exists. There are many tools in the fight against recidivism that are unfortunately not used because they are not available. So, before developing new tools, we will first try to make concrete use of all the existing tools. For example, there is no data bank; if someone commits an offence in Mons and exactly the same in Antwerp, he will never be prosecuted for recidivism because of the absence of such a data bank. This is a concrete case.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic089x.u104	Thank you for your answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic089x.u105	Questions Nos 2148 and 2177 by Mrs Gwenaëlle Grovonius and question No 2208 by Mr Emmanuel Burton were postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic089x.u106	Madam President, Minister, Commissioner, the questionnaire refers to Monica De Coninck as the author of the question. I do not think it is very likely that she or anyone else from her group will ask a question about the guaranteed provision of services in the event of strikes. Madam Minister, in many European countries there is a kind of guaranteed rail service. The federal government agreement also provides for the introduction of a guaranteed rail service. Paragraph 10.2.6 of the Government Agreement states:.The Protocol of Social Agreement for the Prevention of Wild Strikes will be incorporated into the management contracts and will be legally anchored. The government will instruct both companies to draw up a proposal after consultation with the social partners, which nevertheless provides for a guaranteed service in the event of a strike. If no agreement can be reached within a reasonable time, the government will take its own legislative initiative. Priority will be given to social dialogue and the right to strike will not be undermined. The social partners will therefore first have the opportunity to draw up their own proposals. Nevertheless, there is little desire on the part of trade union organizations to introduce a guaranteed service. It is therefore quite possible that the federal government will have to draw up its own proposal after a certain period of time. Madam Secretary, what is the current state of social dialogue? What is the planning of social dialogue in the area of guaranteed service provision? When will you take action if the social dialogue does not present its own proposal? How will you legally anchor the protocol of social agreement to prevent wild strikes? What is the planning in this respect?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic089x.u107	Madam President, Ms De Coninck, due to the general social climate, representatives of trade union organisations remained absent from the social dialogue meetings from October 2013 to January 2015. From 2 February 2015, the social dialogue was restarted. I welcome that. I am therefore giving both companies and trade unions the opportunity to come to an appropriate arrangement. With regard to the prevention of wild strikes, the current protocol of social agreement on work interruptions as included in the ARPS 548 bundle within the Belgian railways continues to apply without prejudice. A technical working group with representatives of Infrabel and SNCB is currently examining what train traffic can be guaranteed in the event of a strike. In any case, if no agreement can be reached on the prevention of wild strikes, the government will take an initiative and draw up a regulation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic089x.u108	Madam Minister, we also hope that an agreement can be reached through social dialogue. If there is no agreement, we believe that the government should at least do something about it. It is not possible for public services, subsidised by public funds and tax resources, to be guaranteed. In that case, this is not a public service for us.
