ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-23-54-commissie-ic201x.u1	Minister, following the sale of Base to Telenet, the Dutch announced that they would like to see a collaboration between KPN and Proximus. I refer every time to the hearing we had in our building with Mrs Leroy and Mr De Clerck. They then noted that the company is now operating well and that a sale or privatisation would therefore not be a good thing. A sale does not seem to be the case either, as most operators are returning to the national market. A possible merger would increase the risk of duopoly, making it difficult for small players to enter or survive on that market. Was it just newspaper talk? Or did you effectively know of any possible rapprochement between KPN and Proximus? If so, what is the government's position and what is the position of the company itself?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-23-54-commissie-ic201x.u2	Neither my cabinet nor Proximus has any information regarding any rapprochement between KPN and Proximus. The subject was therefore not discussed by the federal government or the board of directors of Proximus.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-23-54-commissie-ic201x.u3	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. So it was newspaper talk.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-23-54-commissie-ic201x.u4	Minister, this issue was tabled a long time ago in early May. The press reports that you will allow the government to reduce the state's participation in public enterprises by less than 50%. In the long run, if I understand correctly, this government intends to rid itself, for purely ideological reasons and despite all economic logic, of two large, efficient public companies. In fact, under the guise of a desire to keep all the supposedly open options, you deprive citizens of a public debate in Parliament; indeed, if the bill is finalized, you will only have to convince the members of our assembly. Moreover, this text, according to the press, will put an end to the limitation of the salaries of top managers, whether or not there is a resale of the public enterprise. Finally, you managed to impose your vision on Mr Michel, who had contradicted you at the end of last year on this point. In general, even without privatisation, it seems that your ambition is to disengage the State from its responsibilities as a majority shareholder. You are abandoning the management of these companies to the sole laws of the market despite their social and societal roles. Yet, these societies belong to the state and it is therefore fundamental that they are accountable to all its citizens. When do you intend to introduce this bill? Do you not think that the decision to sell the majority shares of the state should be taken in the Federal Parliament? In your opinion, are there still reasons to oppose the resale of the majority shares of Proximus and bpost? Do public enterprises not have specific roles to play in our society? Do you confirm the government's intention to deflate OCE salaries?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-23-54-commissie-ic201x.u5	Dear colleague, as you know, in the meantime, an amendment to the draft law was approved by the Council of Ministers on 8 May. The draft law will be properly tabled in the House after obtaining the opinion of the Council of State and the Commission of Public Enterprises, after a second reading in the Council of Ministers. The purpose of this preliminary draft law is to lay down the framework within which the participation of public authorities in publicly listed undertakings (bpost and Proximus) could possibly fall below the threshold of 50% plus 1. It is important to note that it is only a matter of changing a legal element that imposes a minimum threshold of 50% plus one action. It is therefore not an effective decision to reduce the participation of public authorities in one way or another. These are two separate debates. The first will take place shortly in Parliament. The second, if any, within the government. The question of whether a decision to lower the threshold of 50% plus action should be taken in the federal Parliament and could be debated at that time. Please be aware that this procedure, i.e. through a royal decree deliberated in the Council of Ministers, has already been examined in the case of BIAC. I will conclude by reminding you of my astonishment at the criticism from your party, because I remember a certain sentence: "I have no ideological blockage on this subject. I'm not poking on a 51% hold." These words were delivered on 12 January 2013 by Paul Magnette, then party president in office. I fully agree with Mr Magnette in this regard. We have no ideological blockage. What we need are strong companies, capable of competing on equal terms, offering quality service and caring for their workers. Public companies listed on the stock exchange, which is also the case for bpost and Proximus, require an alignment of the method of appointment and operation of management bodies with the ordinary corporate governance rules applicable to listed companies. The underlying idea is that public authorities should exercise their influence through the ordinary channels of company law, i.e. through the right to vote at the general meeting and through the members of the board of directors appointed on their proposal. The same applies to a decision on the remuneration of the managing director.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-23-54-commissie-ic201x.u6	Minister, thank you for your answer. I am not bound by the words of a former ruling party president. The current party president, who has been re-elected, is opposed to a reduction in the share of the state in public enterprises below the 50% mark. Today, Proximus and bpost are strong companies that also make important public and societal service missions. In my view, a state shareholder is a stable shareholder that allows for investments. I am thinking here of the investment of a billion for Proximus. If such a company has to take account of other shareholders, its objective cannot be the same in terms of investment and development of public service missions or missions to Belgium. Indeed, its objective will rather be profitability. That is why I believe that this represents a danger for both companies. On the other hand, the idea of capping CEO salaries, which had reached a record high for Belgacom, was a very good signal to the workers. You know that we are in favour of limiting that wage and that it cannot be more than 30 times higher than the basic wage. Indeed, this is a question of equity and social justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-23-54-commissie-ic201x.u7	Madam President, Minister, bpost is currently focusing on the easy transmission and receipt of postal packages through PostPoints, among others. This is a good evolution, as online purchases are increasingly being made. As with any service provided by a public undertaking, I expect it to be accessible to everyone. I've heard that they refused to open a PostPoint in Lissewege and Koolkerke. These are two rather remote submunicipalities of Bruges. Post offices in the neighborhood are closed. There has already been serious cuts in public transport. Especially for older residents, it is not obvious to always reach the centre. In that case, a PostPoint can provide a solution for those people. Lissewege and Koolkerke are a textbook example for so many Belgian municipalities. They're very alive, but they're not center cities. That is why public services in their own village are refused. The inhabitants are expected to go about ten kilometers further. Minister, that is a radically wrong assumption. Not everyone has that opportunity. Moreover, a public undertaking should be there for all citizens. In the municipalities where the post office was closed earlier, extra attention should be paid to alternatives. Mr Minister, my questions to you are as follows. Do you know the reasons for rejecting PostPointen in Lissewege and Koolkerke? What are the criteria for assigning a PostPoint? Is there a distribution plan or are there rules on population density? How will you guarantee that the neighbourhoods without a post office can make optimal use of bpost services?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-23-54-commissie-ic201x.u8	Madam President, bpost is constantly monitoring customer activities in the various post offices. PostPoints in the area are only added if there is currently a need for an additional service point. In the opinion of bpost, that is not the case here. With the network of post offices and PostPoints, Bpost strives for an optimal distribution of its services. The criteria for the number and geographical distribution laid down in the 1991 Law and in the management contract must be respected. With the network of 669 post offices and 675 PostPoints and a coverage higher than 99 %, bpost largely meets those criteria. Moreover, the results of the monitoring of the customer activity in the network as well as the surveys of customer needs determine the establishment of additional service points.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-23-54-commissie-ic201x.u9	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. On paper this is all very nice, but be a resident of those municipalities. Public transport has already been reduced. Then how are these people supposed to get a mail package?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-23-54-commissie-ic201x.u10	It is possible to impose certain rules on bpost and imposed by the management contract. Furthermore, if they are respected, I cannot really intervene in that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-23-54-commissie-ic201x.u11	I understand that, but I think it might be a tool to consider and find a solution for such small communities.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-23-54-commissie-ic201x.u12	Madam President, Minister, this question is twice as topical as the destruction of the data retention law. A consequence of the data retention law were the provisions on guest Wi-Fi. Anyone offering internet on the public domain, if necessary temporarily, such as during sports events, events and festivities, must comply with the obligations imposed by BIPT on operators. For example, they need to identify users and keep track of their data, even if the latter might fall away, given the fact that the data retention law happened. The question is what the BIPT will do with that. I still have specific questions about operator recognition. Firstly, what means of identification, if necessary or necessary in the future, are valid for these obligations? In this context, I am thinking of the identification via registration at a point of sale by picking up a ticket in advance, a pre-existing registration, identification via eID, via SMS or via an identity supplier. After all, there are different identity providers nowadays. Which identity providers agree with this according to the BIPT or in your vision? You can login to different sites through Google, LinkedIN, Facebook, Apple, etc. They shall provide for a form of identification. What about fake accounts, like many exist on Facebook? Secondly, what are the obligations for temporary events? When organising a promotional stand with free Wi-Fi, for example by a student association or on an info day, should one also comply with the operator's obligations? What are the exemptions for small-scale events or providers? Where are the boundaries? Thirdly, you are undoubtedly aware of BELTUG's position, because you have recently started to speak there. They refer to the fact that in a draft text, a first version they had received from BIPT, the list of examples of places where operators would not be covered by the operator's obligations and heavy regulatory burden was longer than in the current publication on the BIPT website. For example, libraries, town halls, OCMWs, schools, venues for an event and taxi services have been removed from the original list. So they are no longer in the list on the website. Why did that happen? Why should heavy rules be imposed there? For example, in Riga, where you were present recently, I noticed that you can use Wi-Fi almost everywhere without identification, even in taxi fare and in the streets, offered by Lattelecom. Fourthly, the data retention directive has now been destroyed, both by the European Court of Justice and later by the Belgian transposition by the Constitutional Court. Is it appropriate, then, to impose those rules? Will the list be deleted from the BIPT website? What will happen to that? How far do you want to go in the line of duty? Finally, you already indicated that you want a level playing field between operators and over-the-top players, primarily by reducing the control pressure for the operators. In what way can this far-reaching and increasing regulatory pressure for guest wifi be adapted to this ambition to reduce the regulatory pressure?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-23-54-commissie-ic201x.u13	Madam President, after the complete destruction of the Constitutional Court of the Belgian Data Retention Act, we must be particularly sensitive to the balance between privacy and security. The fact that the Constitutional Court destroyed the data retention law over the entire line last Friday should prompt us to think carefully about how the government balances privacy and security against each other.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-23-54-commissie-ic201x.u14	Mr President, do you perhaps answer another question?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-23-54-commissie-ic201x.u15	I'll answer the question about guest wifi anyway.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-23-54-commissie-ic201x.u16	That's right. But I have another question about data retention, hence.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-23-54-commissie-ic201x.u17	Indeed, that is the question to which mine is attached.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-23-54-commissie-ic201x.u18	Now that I'm trying to place a topic in a broader context! I know that's what you get out of your comfort zone, but don't worry about it. The judgment has caused a shock wave in the courts and the police, but I personally follow the Court's reasoning that we cannot regard all citizens as potential suspects. This reasoning also applies to the debate on the identification via the Wi-Fi networks. The impact of the recent decision of the Constitutional Court should be examined to assess its impact on existing legislation. The obligation for operators to identify users, as set out in the telecoms Act, should be clarified together with the data retention obligation, since the identification and retention of the data constitute a whole. It is too early to draw conclusions on the impact on the identification obligation of Wi-Fi networks. However, I can clarify what is in the current law. Article 9 of the telecoms Act provides that a person who provides a Wi-Fi service must register with the BIPT as an operator. An exception is provided if the network or service is limited to the private domain. The law does not provide for exceptions for occasional events. According to Article 127, this operator must be able to identify the user of the services at any time. The BIPT informs me that there are five methods to identify the user for a Wi-Fi service, namely the registration at the point of sale, the extension of products (e.g. the end user has already been identified via another product), the identification via an eID, the identification via SMS and the identification via an identity supplier. It is the responsibility of the operator to choose an identity supplier whose identification data are reliable. The BIPT communication to which you refer contains some examples, but is not complete. A new Communication is being prepared in consultation with BELTUG.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-23-54-commissie-ic201x.u19	Minister, I apologize for my prematureness at the beginning of your reply. These issues are all linked, but since we have had a somewhat more extensive debate on the data retention law, there is some confusion. The current data identification and storage obligations will indeed be removed until a new law on this matter has been adopted. Those obligations will be removed for the guest Wi-Fi for the time being. The obligations that you have just mentioned and which are included in the general telecoms law will, of course, remain in force. You have not provided much clarity in this matter. I had taken over the various possibilities of identification directly from the BIPT and I specifically asked you about the identity providers that are eligible for it. There is still a lack of clarity in this area because this is not known in advance. You say it's the operator's job to choose a trustworthy identity provider. Do we all have to have a review? Should one review the different identity providers if one wants to offer a Wi-Fi hotspot in a library? This can't be the intention. I believe that there is a need for greater simplification and clarity in this area. If necessary, we should consider a list that can be extended, but I do not think that this is the way to create clarity. I also hope that there will be an opportunity to include temporary events as an exception in the law. What is your position on this? This seems to me to be a good thing.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-23-54-commissie-ic201x.u20	Minister, it was recently announced that the BIPT and the Luxembourg regulator ILR have concluded an agreement allowing operators to integrate Belgian telephone numbers into a Luxembourg SIM card. I believe that this is an innovative way of circumventing the roaming tariff. Operator JOIN Experience works in Belgium and Luxembourg and has a SIM card that works with two telephone numbers. For example, one can place a Luxembourgish and a Belgian number on the SIM card, so that roaming charges do not have to be paid. We have already had debates in this House on the timing of the disappearance of roaming charges and their possible impact on the domestic user. I absolutely do not want to have that debate again. I would like to talk about the fact that this experiment of JOIN Experience may be extended to the Netherlands in a Benelux context, France and Germany. Apparently, other operators have also submitted the same file. However, they must wait for ministerial approval. Minister, what is your view of this evolution in the context of the debate on roaming charges? Is there any European-level approach to this through BEREC? Should JOIN Experience comply with the applicable regulations in Belgium and Luxembourg on data retention, consumer protection, ombudsmen's contribution, number portability and the like? JOIN Experience has received ministerial approval to enable this dual SIM card. Are there any other chords in the making? Is it or is it not a dangerous precedent when the status of operator can be given to over-the-top players such as Skype?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-23-54-commissie-ic201x.u21	As far as your first question is concerned, the Belgian and Luxembourg regulators have indeed reached an agreement whereby operators can link Belgian mobile numbers to Luxembourg SIM cards and vice versa, so that roaming costs are avoided. This allows more competition, whereby operators can offer innovative subscriptions to citizens who often travel between the two countries. I see this as a positive development that can hopefully be extended to more countries. The rules on number management are laid down by the ITU and not BEREC. In both bodies BIPT is represented that wants to promote these kinds of developments as much as possible. JOIN Experience is a Belgian operator who provides services in Belgium with Belgian mobile numbers and is fully subject to Belgian laws and regulations. No other applications are currently pending. As far as your last question on the OTTs is concerned, the status of operator is completely separate from that. According to Article 9 (1) of the telecoms Act, an operator is involved in offering or reselling electronic communications services or networks in its own name and on its own behalf."
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-23-54-commissie-ic201x.u22	Thank you, Minister, for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-23-54-commissie-ic201x.u23	Mr President, Mr Deputy Prime Minister, I should like to apologise to Mr. Van Hecke, who is "coordinated" in the Committee on the Interior, where another important text is being discussed. I therefore ask my question, which is substantially the same as his. Mr Deputy Prime Minister, according to information revealed by the Austrian Green MEP, Peter Pilz, the German intelligence services (BND), at the request of the US National Security Agency (NSA), spyed on 15 communications flows from Belgian telecommunications companies transiting through Germany, via commercial and technical agreements linking them to Deutsche Telekom. Of these, ten of these channels were managed by Belgacom, which in the meantime became Proximus and of which you have the tutelage. Documents by Deutsche Telekom, held by the Bundestag's parliamentary committee of inquiry into the illegal activities of the NSA, attest that France Telecom (now Orange and which was also targeted by the wiretapping) would have the means to identify the persons or undertakings monitored by the NSA through these documents. Deputy Prime Minister, my questions are as follows. Can I have a copy of the commercial and technical contract(s) linking Belgacom (now Proximus) to Deutsche Telekom since 2004? Can you tell me the number and nature of the contracts currently between Proximus and Deutsche Telekom? Do these relate to the exploitation of data flows through Germany physically? We know that it was because the flow of data was passing through Germany that these ten flows were listened to. If so, is there a clause in these contracts requiring full confidentiality in the flow exchange? Given the magnitude of the revelations, can Proximus, on the basis of the revelations made during the hearings in the Bundestag, specify who are the individuals or companies targeted by these surveillances? Finally, what measures have Proximus initiated to put an end to these dubious practices with unacceptable human and economic consequences? I asked the Prime Minister a similar question which focused on the diplomatic relations between Germany and Belgium in the light of the facts just revealed. Here we enter into the heart of the subject because you have the technical answer to what has happened and is unacceptable.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-23-54-commissie-ic201x.u24	Mr Hellings, it is not because I am a telecoms minister that I am aware of what all operators do or do or have suffered. Belgacom has in no way been directly involved in this alleged listening practice. In order to be able to offer certain services abroad, BICS (Belgacom International Carrier Services) subscribes to certain services of other operators such as Deutsche Telekom, for example, connections from Belgium via Deutsche Telekom's network. Due to their confidentiality, contractual documents cannot be disclosed. These agreements underline the principle of confidentiality and respect for all applicable legislation. In this respect, each country, and therefore also Germany, is free to determine its rules. BICS sent a formal request for clarification to Deutsche Telekom. The Commission confirmed that it had acted strictly under German law. There is not only Proximus to have been spyed on German territory in these ways. Peter Pilz mentions Slovak Telecom, France Télécom, Telekom Srbija, Teledanemark, Rostelecom and others.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-23-54-commissie-ic201x.u25	Minister, thank you for your answer. The big difference between these listening methods and what we saw under the previous legislature, when the servers of Belgacom, the Prime Minister, the SPF Foreign Affairs and the army intelligence service were attacked, is that there was no technical implementation of a bug in a server by a German intelligence service. What is new in this case is that the German or American intelligence services have used the technical possibility of seeing data flows passing through a State to demand, on the part of the national operator of that State, the provision of such data passing through its territory via what is known as a system of mirrors. This is a new data. In terms of trade and security, we must be able to see that the threat of strategic information passing through the hands of foreign intelligence services exists through commercial contacts. I learn that it was BICS, Belgacom's international subsidiary, that negotiated with Deutsche Telekom. This becomes not only an economic issue but also a question of security to screen and verify all these contracts. Indeed, today, we are de facto putting in the hands of foreign operators substantial and crucial data for our industries, our companies and individuals. BICS requested a report from Deutsche Telekom. The confidentiality clause, if it exists, has been broken. I hope that you will ask Proximus to claim significant financial compensation and to consider structural measures to ensure that the data do not pass through foreign territory. If, however, they were to transit abroad, they would have to be sure that they were not captured by a foreign secret service. This shows the scale of the phenomenon that is developing today. We will remain attentive to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-23-54-commissie-ic201x.u26	Questions No 4852 by Mrs Kattrin Jadin and No 4866 by Mrs Caroline Cassart-Mailleux are transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-23-54-commissie-ic201x.u27	Madam President, Minister, the network of postal offices has been restructured over time. The fourth management contract ensured the maintenance of a network of 1,300 outlets and a minimum of 650 post offices throughout the country. For rural communes, the principle to be respected was the presence of at least one post office per commune. The fifth management contract maintained this rule, while removing a few very small exceptions. Today, to my knowledge, you are negotiating the sixth management contract, which is expected to come into force in 2016 and which is already causing many fears. I had also had the opportunity to ask you about this at a previous committee meeting. The government agreement announces important decisions, while the European Commission urges you to extend the liberalisation measures. According to some unconfirmed information, the future management contract would provide for the repeal of the above-mentioned principle. The rural communes are obviously concerned about this announcement. That is how the communal council in which I sit unanimously voted on a motion that he addressed to you. This demonstrates the interest of local elected officials in this issue. Minister, what about the state of play in the negotiations between bpost and the Belgian State? Are the information on the deletion of the principle of "one post office at least per commune" in the future management contract well founded? Can you assure me that the government will maintain this rule? In fact, Belgians must be equal in front of the postal service, regardless of the size of the municipality in which they live. Of course, we plead for the preservation of public service and its missions throughout our territory.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-23-54-commissie-ic201x.u28	Mr. Delizée, the current management contract will end at the end of this year. His successor is still negotiating with bpost. It would therefore be premature for me to express my views on its content. As soon as it has been endorsed by the government, I will come to present it to this Parliament. As you know, the government's objective is to ensure a quality postal service at a lower budget cost. Our mission is to ensure that bpost offers quality services and competitive prices for the benefit of all citizens, businesses, associations and public authorities. The bpost company must be a real catalyst for economic growth and pursue a successful and innovative strategy while being customer-oriented. The Government believes that this reliability of services is an essential feature of bpost. In this context, it is also important for public enterprises to have good financial health and to be able to achieve their objectives of profitability in a healthy social climate, while maintaining the quality of public service, while respecting the safety of employees and users/clients. As you will understand, "we can't have butter and butter money" and the government will have to make choices taking into account budgetary constraints. It will also be careful to ensure a quality postal service that meets the needs of all.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-23-54-commissie-ic201x.u29	Minister, thank you for your answer, the content of which does not reassure me very much. First of all, you say it's premature. I would point out to you that we are still at the end of June and that, by the end of the year at the latest, everything must have been negotiated and that time is needed for decision-making. This means that the conclusion of this agreement must not be delayed. Still, I will listen carefully to the information that will be officially given. You used terms such as "quality services", "low budget cost". These two aspects are not always good. Good service has a certain cost. On the other hand, the issue of rural development must be shared. The formula "we can't have butter and butter money" is a little boaty! In doing so, I see no willingness on the part of the government to maintain the principle of an office, which means that concerns are well founded. If I am not mistaken, in 2014, the bpost profit was to be 300 million euros. In doing so, the principle of maintaining a postal office in a number of small communes is fully part of the bpost system. It is a question of political choice, of will. And I expect that this will not be expressed in your answer, which I regret.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-23-54-commissie-ic201x.u30	Minister, you have already done your best, and I would have expected nothing but that you, as a liberal and as a supporter of fundamental rights and freedoms, would be pleased if a far too far-reaching law on the storage and retention of our data, whereby every citizen is treated in advance as a potential suspect, were to be destroyed. Of course, the question now arises as to how to proceed and what initiatives you will take as a competent minister, obviously in consultation with your colleague Geens and your privacy watchdog Bart Tommelein. After all, operators maintain information necessary for their own operation and invoicing. It seems clear to me that this information can also be used for an investigation. However, such use should fit into a strict framework, preferably stricter than what was laid down in the previous law that was destroyed. I would like to say nothing about the crazy obligations imposed by that law on hosting providers, SMEs and catering operators, as we have just had in the debate on guest Wi-Fi. Mr. Secretary, what's in your tube? How will you ensure that the investigation services can carry out their work, and how will you reconcile this with the fundamental rights and freedoms of citizens, without introducing additional retention obligations?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-23-54-commissie-ic201x.u31	Minister, as Mr.Dedecker pointed out, the Constitutional Court annulled an article of the Act of 30 July 2013. In so doing, it followed the decision of the Court of Justice of the European Union, on which I also asked the Minister of Justice, Mr Geens. This cancellation necessarily has many consequences and leads to a return to the regime that prevailed before the coming into force of the law of 30 July 2013. However, the former Article 126 of the Law on Electronic Communications already authorized the King to impose a retention of data by telecom operators but without specifying the details. It is essential that all citizens, the judiciary and the telecommunications sector know the current state of our law and what they need to do pending a new bill. Minister, should telecom operators delete the data collected under this Act? Do they have to keep them? In this case, which ones? How long? Under what conditions? What are the consequences of this judgment for the judiciary and future investigations? The Minister of Justice has already answered these questions. Do you intend to adopt a new royal decree pursuant to former article 126 of the Law on Electronic Communications, since the Royal Decree of 19 September 2013 implementing article 126 of the Law of 13 June 2005 on Electronic Communications has lost its legal basis?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-23-54-commissie-ic201x.u32	Madam Chair, Minister, the legal data has been recalled. This is a very important decision. It follows the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union and forms part of that decision. The judgment of the Court of Justice followed by the Constitutional Court marks a genuine legal judgment on all attempts, which are sometimes repeated even after that judgment, to undermine certain forms of protection of privacy and, under the general pretext of security, to consider that any database may be consulted by any police or security authority on the grounds of preventing any attack or risk whatsoever. I believe it is time that we found the way to a more respectful balance of fundamental freedoms between the need to protect society from particular threats and the protection of privacy. According to the case-law of the Court of Justice, the Constitutional Court annulled the law of 30 July 2013 on the ground that the principle of proportionality, well known in the case-law of the Constitutional Court, was not properly respected since the obligations imposed applied to persons for whom there was no indication that their conduct might be related, even indirectly or in a distance, to the offences listed by the law under appeal. Similarly, the law applied without any exception also to persons whose communications are subject to professional secrecy. Finally, the law did not require any relationship between the data that is intended to be stored and a threat to public safety. Nor did it limit the retention of data relating to a specific time period or geographical area or to a circle of persons who might be involved in an offence covered by the law, or who could contribute, through the retention of the data, to the prevention, detection or prosecution of such offences. This decision thus makes it possible to recall the extent to which the surveillance of citizens, even if it can be justified in the fight against terrorism, cannot be extended to the infinite. Minister, what initiatives have you taken or are you going to take in the near future to ensure that telecommunications operators and Internet service providers respect the scope of the judgment, fully comply with it and therefore no longer keep at the disposal of police or judicial authorities data that can no longer be retained? What information will the data subjects have about the possible collection of data without a legal framework?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-23-54-commissie-ic201x.u33	The analysis of the judgment of the Constitutional Court of 11 June 2015, which destroys the data retention law, as well as the legal and practical consequences of the destruction is under way. As my colleague the Minister of Justice has already explained, this ruling does not result in a lack of a legal framework on this subject. The former article 126 of the Act of 13 June 2005 on electronic communications, which became applicable again, already set out the principle of compulsory retention of data for criminal and security purposes. Under current legislation, certain identification, traffic and localization data can also be requested, if available, for billing or other legitimate purposes. Traffic data, for example, may be retained by operators as long as this is necessary for the invoicing, interconnection or enforcement of the payment in court. Beyond this necessary time, they may retain this data for longer, subject to the consent of the user, only for marketing or fraud detection purposes. Depending on the general conditions of the operators, this varies between two and five years. The location data may only be kept by operators for the time necessary for the provision of the location service and subject to the consent of the user. However, it does not mean that the legislation is optimal and should not be reviewed. The Constitutional Court has given a clear signal that calls for a thorough reflection on the matter. The Court points out that data retention and retrieval require the necessary checks and balances. The Constitutional Court makes it clear that there must be a balance between privacy and security, and that not every citizen can be considered a potential suspect. I share that view of the Constitutional Court. Together with the Minister of Justice and the Secretaries of State responsible for privacy, we will try to find balanced solutions. The experts have already met and will meet again this week to complete the analysis and to clarify the situation as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-23-54-commissie-ic201x.u34	Thank you, Minister, for your comprehensive statement, namely that we need to move towards a system with more checks and balances and that we can no longer proceed as comprehensively as during the previous legislature, with the then ministers Vande Lanotte and Turtelboom. I share your opinion. It is logical that data stored by operators for the purposes of invoicing can be used for investigation. That's what's happening today, provided the necessary checks and balances are in place. We really should not oblige them to keep records longer than necessary. After all, it is also up to the Justice Department to work sufficiently quickly and efficiently in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-23-54-commissie-ic201x.u35	Minister, thank you for your answer. I have heard how long the data could still be kept by telecommunications operators. It is clear that a clear message must be sent both to the latter and to the justice system and to the citizens in order to know what regime they belong to. I guess the message was sent. On the other hand, I share your view that a better balance must be struck between the judicial objective and the important objective of respecting privacy. We look forward to your new bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-23-54-commissie-ic201x.u36	Madam President, I have nothing else to add. Wait and see.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-23-54-commissie-ic201x.u37	Minister, it seems that 11 June was a high day for you. In addition to the news about the data retention law, a second judgment came from the European Court of Justice. This decided that the Belgian telecoms law applying a social tariff to mobile telephony is not compatible with the European Universal Service Directive. Social tariffs, which should not be imposed by Member States, can only be introduced for fixed telephony and the Internet. Firstly, 18 300 subscribers today receive a social discount on their mobile bill. How do you explain to these people that the discount will expire? How and when will you do this? I assume that the discounts obtained unlawfully from the past will not be recovered. We cannot blame those involved, they have applied the existing law. Secondly, where do you stand with your announced modernisation of the system? You said at the time you wanted to wait for the Court's decision. It came today. We could have guessed the result, because there were comments from the Advocate General. So you knew what you were up to, and I assume you didn't wait until the problem popped up, but you were forward-looking. To govern, that's to foresee. [[!]] Thirdly, BASE proposes that current customers with a social rate for a fixed line at Belgacom should offer a mobile offer at an equal or lower price without the other telecom customers having to pay for it. Do you see possibilities to further mobilise the current group of customers at a social rate and compare prices with different operators, including a mobile offer? That would be better than letting those people sit where they are, at a far too high rate, albeit with a social discount, knowing that they could be served cheaper elsewhere without cost to the other customers or society. The website bestrate.be has a lot of success, but given the immobility in this customer segment with a social discount, it may be doubtful whether this specific group of customers will also be reached effectively. I therefore ask that the BIPT should specifically approach that group of customers, if necessary individually, in order to mobilise them as well.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-23-54-commissie-ic201x.u38	The European Court of Justice replied to a question for a preliminary ruling from the Belgian Constitutional Court. On the basis of that reply, the Constitutional Court still has to rule on the substance. The final judgment must be awaited in order to answer your first question. There will be a review of what happens to those customers with each operator involved. Pending the judgment of the Constitutional Court, my services are also examining with the sector how the current system can be modernised. There will certainly no longer be a social tariff. The rates for mobile calls are, according to the latest BIPT price study, more than affordable. The application of the fare simulator bestrate.be shows that there are several offers available on the market that are even cheaper than the maximum social discount for mobile telephony, which is 11.5 euros. Indeed, it is crucial that these users are led to the most appropriate tariff plans for them. The BIPT continues its efforts in this area, but there may also be a role for anti-poverty experts. You yourself quoted BASE's offer. Of course, I can only welcome and support any other initiatives taken by the telecom operators in the context of corporate social responsibility, provided that they do not give rise to breaches of privacy or distortion of competition.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-23-54-commissie-ic201x.u39	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I can, of course, only follow your last point. That is why I said that there may be a role for the BIPT. There can be no question of releasing address data or personal data from social customers in order to allow the market to play on them. That would be a violation of privacy. However, as a neutral intermediary, BIPT can assume its responsibility in encouraging those customers to compare prices and find a cheaper rate, which should no longer be financed by society. That's the essence. I also believe that you will not have to wait for the judgment of the Constitutional Court. You already know in advance that it will not be incompatible with the judgment of the European Court of Justice. You don't have to wait, you can move forward.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-23-54-commissie-ic201x.u40	Madam President, Minister, the question about the G-Cloud was my last question during the previous legislature to your predecessor, Hendrik Bogaert. At the end of that legislature, a tender was issued in three lots. However, in the absence of tenders on one of the three lots, it was not awarded. Instead, the project was transferred to Smalls during those last months. A quality G-Cloud naturally creates a lot of economies of scale. That's obvious. It is absolutely necessary, but must of course be built with security as an absolute core condition:privacy by default, security by design. That's why I have a few questions. Firstly, what is the status of the G Cloud project today? What elements are already in progress and what elements are still in the design phase? What's the timing of that? Secondly, to what extent do Smalls' plans to achieve a G-Cloud differ from the requirements and the original specifications? There were three specifications, which were very well specified. What requirements have been removed from those original lottery tickets from the original tender? How exactly are we going to proceed? Which cases did Smals take over and which cases did she not take over? Thirdly, very important in that tender were the security requirements. Will Smalls, for the full 100 %, meet the security requirements imposed on private candidates in the first attempt at tendering? If Smalls will not meet, at what point will she not meet? A detailed overview is needed in this respect. Finally, to what extent will it be examined, in a concrete and regular manner, whether these safety conditions are also met? To what extent is the solution subject to an independent audit to determine whether those safety conditions are met?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-23-54-commissie-ic201x.u41	Madam President, Mr Dedecker, today there is a first cloud offering where public institutions can board to exchange their existing infrastructure for a completely virtual environment where they themselves manage virtual machines. In addition, there is already an offer of storage as a service available. Meanwhile, efforts are being made to gradually increase the level of self-management and automation through additional tools. Converge systems are also being worked on; this is in the tender evaluation phase. Implementation and its availability is expected in the autumn. The following requirements of Fedict's specifications have been dropped: a second independent stand-by cloud provider for the purposes of disaster recovery, hosting in the provider's data centers, certification of the IaaS platform and organisation, and the additional virtual network security layer. Since the platform is no longer hosted in the data centers of the provider, but in the Belgian data centers of the government, less stringent requirements are required than in the initial tender. The existing security rules within the government are taken as a standard and adjusted where necessary by a security cell established for that purpose within the cloud governance board. In addition to regular monitoring by internal safety consultants, external independent auditors may also be called upon if necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-23-54-commissie-ic201x.u42	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Two things stand out to me in your comprehensive list. You say that the security requirements for implementation by the government are less demanding than for implementation by the private sector because the data centre is located in Belgium. Personally, I don't think that's exactly the right way to work. I believe that the various administrations should continue to be considered as separate customers in order to avoid any effective data breach. For example, if an incident occurs in a public service, it could extend to other public services. As far as safety is concerned, therefore, I do not think we should give in a millimeter. That is essential, and that needs to be looked at again. You also said that things could be subject to an independent audit. The word "can" seems very non-binding to me. When it comes to our personal data, the data of the government, they must be subject to an independent audit. I would ask you to take a closer look at these two points of concern, for which I am grateful.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-23-54-commissie-ic201x.u43	Minister, since the new Telecoms Act came into force in 2012, consumers are free to break their free gsm or smartphone subscription and change their operator after six months without notice. This simplification of the termination procedure has mainly facilitated consumer mobility and made the telecommunications market more competitive and competitive. You recently announced that you would do the same with respect to fixed telephone lines. A new royal decree would be in consultation with fixed-line providers. Several new developments would be discussed in this text to facilitate the lives of consumers, and we welcome them. In particular, it would be up to the new operator to take over all the necessary formalities, both administrative and technical, for the change to be effective. Compensation would also be provided in the event of delays in the execution of the migration from the former operator to the new supplier. I come, Minister, to very specific questions about what you are proposing as adjustments. Will the consumer have to pay various fees to request the change of fixed line provider? I am thinking, for example, of the costs of closing a file. With respect to the terms and conditions of application, can the application be settled by telephone or on the supplier's website or will the consumer have to go to a shop? In addition, should a period of notice be respected? Will the client be able to keep the same phone number? Finally, could you tell me how soon this can be implemented and whether you are planning information campaigns on the subject?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-23-54-commissie-ic201x.u44	Madam President, Mrs Winckel, Article 11.3 of the Telecoms Act already provides that an operator cannot charge a breach of contract after more than six months. The request may be settled by telephone or on the supplier's website in accordance with the rules of distance selling, but the consumer will have to sign, if necessary, an authorization form. Article 11.3 § 1 of the law already provides that the contract is terminated at the time chosen by the subscriber, even immediately. In accordance with Article 2, § 1 of the Royal Decree of 2 July 2013, the customer will be able to keep his number if he migrates within the same area of numbers. This royal decree is being modernized. Taking into account the different stages prior to the confirmation of the royal decree and the necessary adaptations to the operators' computer system, the procedures are unlikely to enter into force until 1 July 2016. Information campaigns are envisaged and the modalities are not yet determined.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-23-54-commissie-ic201x.u45	Minister, thank you. I understand that it takes time. I hear you're also working on a second by-law on areas to keep the same phone number. It is also a good measure. We can only congratulate you and encourage you to continue to do so. This stimulates competition. It is an advantageous service for consumers. It is a question of being able to guarantee them reasonable telecom prices. The only thing we regret is that we still have to wait until 1 July 2016, which is quite a long time. I will therefore allow myself to return to the matter once we have knowledge of the decree.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-23-54-commissie-ic201x.u46	We must respect the deadlines for consultation and we do not have much choice. The implementation of mobile telephony has taken us a lot of time. At the legislative level, we have tried to work as quickly as possible. However, the practical aspect is not very simple to understand and operators must be allowed to organise themselves.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-23-54-commissie-ic201x.u47	Minister, we have just talked about social tariffs, which will no longer apply to mobile telephony. However, there are still relatively large discounts on fixed telephony, which are adapted by the operator's other customers and possibly also by other operators. In order to examine the need for an adjustment by other operators, the implementation of the new telecoms law in the previous legislature agreed that the BIPT would conduct an investigation into the possible unreasonable burden that the obligation to provide social discounts for operators could create for operators who have disproportionately more customers entitled to a social tariff. Has the study of the unreasonable burden been started yet? If so, when? Is it BIPT itself or was the research outsourced to a study firm? If so, which desk? Has the study been completed yet? When will the first results be delivered to the BIPT or your cabinet? What amount is budgeted for the study and how much has it cost so far? I mean the amount invoiced by an external study firm or the number of man-hours carried out by the BIPT. If the study has already been completed or submitted for consultation, what is the first conclusion of the study? Are the compulsory social tariffs unreasonable burdens on certain operators or not? If so, for which, and in what order?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-23-54-commissie-ic201x.u48	Following a demand for compensation of the net costs of the social tariff from 2005 onwards, BIPT issued a public tender. The public contract was awarded to the consultancy company Analysys Mason, assisted by the law firm Deprevernet, and started in July 2012. The BIPT has so far paid 257 000 euros, excluding VAT, at consultancy costs. Following the step-by-step mechanism, registered in Article 74/1 of the Act of 13 June 2005 on electronic communications, the mission of Analysys Mason consists of several steps. Firstly, the possible unreasonable burden for the years 2005 to 2012 should be assessed. Secondly, if the first stage is answered positively, the calculation of the actual net costs for each operator will follow. However, the procedure was suspended because the supplier in question withdrew his request for compensation. In the current state of affairs, therefore, I cannot give you any results.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-23-54-commissie-ic201x.u49	Minister, you say that Belgacom, the largest operator with the highest number of social rates, withdrew his request at the end of the study. We must draw a conclusion to that. If Belgacom withdraws his request, I assume that the operator will not be entitled to it now and will never be entitled to it again. We cannot allow Belgacom to withdraw his request now, and come knocking again later. That would be awesome. I assume the withdrawal is final. Perhaps you could clarify that a little bit more. Furthermore, I find it particularly strange that Belgacom would have played with our feet at a cost of EUR 250 000. I would find that outrageous.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-23-54-commissie-ic201x.u50	I would like to add two elements. First of all, if an operator wants to withdraw his question, that's his right. That's all I can say. Moreover, the BIPT is financed by the sector, not by us. Has the study been justified or not? There is a lot to be said about this, but one cannot implicitly say that the government would have suffered damage. The BIPT is financed by the sector, not by us.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-23-54-commissie-ic201x.u51	Who's the sector? Those are the different telecom operators, all the telecom customers in our country and, in fact, every citizen. Basically, it comes down to every citizen. Belgacom has therefore played hard on all citizens for EUR 250 000. I think that is a very strange observation. Since the request has been withdrawn, I assume the study is final. Any word on that? I assume the withdrawal is final. Belgacom shouldn't come knocking afterwards.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-23-54-commissie-ic201x.u52	I can only conclude that the trial has been suspended.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-23-54-commissie-ic201x.u53	I assume this is final.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-23-54-commissie-ic201x.u54	Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, bpost has recently decided to adjust the opening hours of some of its offices. Since 1 June, some offices already apply the new timetables: they will be opened later in the evening until 6 p.m. and will open only from 9.30 a.m. in order to compensate for the opening time added at the end of the day. According to news reports in the press, only post offices in major cities will continue to open from 9 a.m. The reasons given by bpost to defend this change are that these opening hours better correspond to the customer's needs. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, what study is bpost based on to say that these hours of operation are more in line with customers' demands? What do the social partners think of this change in timetable? What is your position? Is there an agreement with the social partners on the practical application of these new timetables? What are the expected results of such a change?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-23-54-commissie-ic201x.u55	Mr Devin, bpost informs me that the company regularly organizes surveys on the needs of customers. This research shows that the accessibility of post offices, particularly business hours, is one of the main levers for client satisfaction. It also appears that expectations in this area have changed considerably. Following the growing success of e-commerce and its impact on the volume of packages, bpost must react quickly and appropriately. The addition of a second late opening in addition to the one already existing and the increase in opening hours on Saturdays significantly increases the level of services. The client can now visit his post office three days a week outside the usual business hours. The adjustment of the opening hours of the post offices has been the subject of a conciliation procedure, which does not require an agreement from the social partners. The social partners made their remarks and the company responded. This transaction aims to increase customer satisfaction.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-23-54-commissie-ic201x.u56	Minister, thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-23-54-commissie-ic201x.u57	Madam President, Deputy Prime Minister, in order to reduce congestion in the city centres, bpost proposes to arrange deliveries to the centre of three major cities in the country: Antwerp, Brussels and Hasselt. City Logistics, which formerly offered this service in Antwerp has merged with City Depot, present in Hasselt and Brussels. This allows trucks to place their goods in a depot centre at the entrance to large cities and avoid heavy traffic in cities at peak times. The delivery is then carried out by smaller vehicles to the city centre. The public company launched this project with the aim of reducing traffic congestion, reducing costs for carriers and thus having a positive impact on the environment by reducing pollution. Deputy Prime Minister, the City Depot/City Logistics project has now been in place for several months. Can you give us the first results of this initiative? Could an impact be measured on traffic within these cities? Currently, only three large Belgian cities benefit from this new service offered by bpost. Will it be extended to other cities? If so, which ones? What is the planned schedule for this launch?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-23-54-commissie-ic201x.u58	Mr Devin, the bpost company wants to develop its urban distribution activities. The first company to propose an alternative solution for urban distribution was City Depot, which was established in 2011, which expanded its operations in Hasselt and then in Brussels. In 2014, bpost followed with City Logistics, a comparable service offered to Antwerp. To further expand this service offer, bpost and City Depot created City Depot SA together in May 2015. The ambition is to become the leader in urban distribution in Belgium. Bpost becomes the main shareholder of City Depot SA. The proliferation of urban transport poses a growing threat to mobility at the entrance and heart of agglomerations. With City Depot, transporters who are required to deliver to the city centre can unload their goods in a specially equipped depot located at the edge of the city. Next, City Depot ensures the same day bundled deliveries to final recipients with its own vehicles. The results are positive. According to a "Before/After" study, during the testing phase in Antwerp in 2014, the number of kilometres travelled, and consequently carbon dioxide emissions, could be reduced by more than 30%. City Depot is currently offering its services in Brussels, Antwerp and Hasselt and will be deploying its activities in Ghent again this year. In addition, there are exploratory talks in Bruges, Charleroi, Liège and Namur.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-23-54-commissie-ic201x.u59	Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, thank you for your precise answer. When will the settlements in Liège, Namur, Charleroi and Ghent take place?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-23-54-commissie-ic201x.u60	We will be deploying activities in Ghent this year and there are exploratory talks in the cities I mentioned, but there is no date.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-23-54-commissie-ic201x.u61	Deputy Prime Minister, bpost, like any company, carries out evaluations of its staff. It was a screening of this kind that had led to the restructuring and reduction of personnel under the Alpha plan. Staff commitment, motivation and skills are some of the factors used to assess staff. Communications about these screenings are mainly in-house and remain relatively vague for trade union organisations. Deputy Prime Minister, how are these evaluations conducted internally? Can you define all the criteria assessed? What is the role of organisations representing workers in these assessments? Is there a communication addressed to workers and trade union organisations prior to the evaluation?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-23-54-commissie-ic201x.u62	Mr Devin, bpost has provided us with information on your questions. First of all, bpost would like to point out that the Alpha project is not the result of screening or new personnel management. It defines the future organizational model of central services and support services. According to the company, a new organisation is needed to ensure a sustainable position as a postal operator in a changing environment. The decline in mail volumes requires continued efforts, despite the growth generated by packages, new products and solutions. Last February, the results of this analysis were presented to the joint committee of society, thus paving the way for social consultation. On that occasion, management announced its intention to introduce a new support service organization, in which approximately 320 functions would be removed, both for employees and management. The planned reorganization would be implemented gradually. Each stage will be the subject of a consultation procedure with the trade unions, as provided for in the trade union status of bpost. The new functions to be filled will be subject to an objective selection in terms of human resources and line maintenance. The description of duties and selection criteria are an integral part of the topics discussed with staff representatives. Finally, information sessions on the status of the project are regularly held for staff members.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-23-54-commissie-ic201x.u63	Deputy Prime Minister, can you tell me the exact figure?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-23-54-commissie-ic201x.u64	It's 320.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-23-54-commissie-ic201x.u65	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-23-54-commissie-ic201x.u66	Madam President, Deputy Prime Minister, in bpost, staff are recruited under different statutes. There are statutory employees, contractors and acting staff. In 2009, bpost created a new substatut, called "Auxiliary Distributor" (DA), which deals with factors and sorters. The idea is that there would be easy and difficult tasks within the company, and that easy tasks would require a different status. DAs have a status that does not, a priori, have the same advantages as contract workers, while in the field they do the same work. It is estimated that workers who have completed their fixed-term contracts and have been forced to accept DA contracts have thus lost between EUR 200 and 300 per month, the year-end premiums and their days off. However, they continued to perform the same tasks as before in the same services. In this regard, Deputy Prime Minister, I would like to ask you a few questions. Can you give us the number of bpost workers who are statutory, contractual, acting and DA? Can you list the tasks that would be considered easy and that would be covered under the DA status? Is there a desire to harmonise the status of workers? Will new statutes come into being with the new management contract? What is your position on this?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-23-54-commissie-ic201x.u67	Madam President, dear colleague, DA therefore means "auxiliary distributor". This can be said in French. Here is the number of employees by category at the end of April 2015: just over 5,000 DAs, just over 6,000 baraemic contract workers, just over 1,000 non-baraemic contract workers, 13,000 statutory employees and about 6,000 acting employees. For ease of reference, I will give you the document containing the exact figures. The bpost company notes that the creation of a new function has been abandoned. Instead, bpost introduced new wage conditions, scales and other benefits, in accordance with the legal provisions in force, after complying with the social consultation provided for in the bpost statutes. The DA rules adopted by the joint bpost committee include all the wage conditions applicable from 1 January 2010 to workers engaged by bpost under contract of employment from that date to perform duties as a postal agent (distribution, abduction, sorting) or as a driver. This measure is part of the company's policy to rigorously manage its operational costs, in particular its payroll, in response to the challenges facing the company: increasing competition for many of its products and services, opening up the postal market, decreasing mail volumes and the growing success of e-mail.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-23-54-commissie-ic201x.u68	Madam Chair, thank you for allowing me to ask all my questions. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, thank you for all the answers and clarity. This may surprise you, but I would like to make a very positive comment. With my colleague, Philippe Blanchart, we visited the Beaumont distribution centres in my region two weeks ago, as well as the Charleroi sorting and distribution centre. We have been remarkably received. In all transparency, we were able to visit the whole. The more I move forward in the matter, the more I think it's a flagship of the state. I won't go any further.
