ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic188x.u1	Good afternoon, Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Welcome to the continuation of last week's agenda. At that time we had a whole series of questions for which we unfortunately did not have enough time. I am convinced that the Minister, who has now had a week's extra reflection period, will be able to formulate his answers even better. So we'll fly right in.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic188x.u2	Mr President, Minister, on online sales sites, two options are generally available to consumers at the time of online payment: credit card payment on the one hand, and credit card payment on the other. In the second case, the consumer is redirected to a secure payment space of the Ogone type where he can make the payment of his purchases thanks to the card reader provided to him by his bank which allows transactions via homebanking. If the consumer chooses this second hypothesis, then it will generally only be possible for him to choose between the four major Belgian banks, namely ING, Fortis, Belfius and KBC, to make his payment. According to Comeos, this situation would currently leave two million customers without a payment solution. Recently, I learned of the existence of a single online payment system used in particular in the Netherlands: the Ideal system, which, as its name suggests, is a system comparable to the Giropay system, also used in Germany. It works as follows: from the online store, the customer, after selecting one of the many banks affiliated to the system, is redirected to his online bank account. Once the customer logs to his bank, all purchase data are transferred to the online transfer form. The buyer then only has to validate the payment. This approach would be highly satisfactory to users in the countries that have adopted it, in particular through savings to buyers of manual, time-consuming and error-prone transfer. The purchase process is simplified, security standards strengthened and payment guaranteed for the merchant, all payments made by Ideal cannot be repudiated. Minister, are you familiar with this system? If so, what do you think? Could Belgium ever claim to adopt such a system? If so, what measures would be required to achieve this?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic188x.u3	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, third-party payment service providers offer payment initiation services on the basis of an online banking system which, in sum, amounts to making a transfer via the Internet via an ordinary credit card. This is a serious and inexpensive alternative to credit card payment. Currently, this type of TPP service via the Internet is not fully regulated at the legal level, but this slight legal vacuum will soon be filled. At present, some systems are less secure. This is one of the main reasons why we want to put in place a regulation under which safety requirements will be imposed on all the players who will offer these services on the market. In the European Payment Services Directive, such a legal framework is well provided for. Negotiations at European level are in their final stages. In particular, they aim to provide a solution at the level of the above-mentioned risks. When a legal framework guarantees consumer safety, this system can be used in Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic188x.u4	Minister, I take note of the fact that this system will be put in place. But do you have a timing for this implementation?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic188x.u5	As soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic188x.u6	Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic188x.u7	Mr President, first of all, I apologize for not being present at the previous meeting. Minister, wishing to understand the reasons why my PS and PTB colleagues are constantly quoting Thomas Piketty's Capital in the 21st century, I bought it from a bookshop in Brussels and a book called Piketty at the picket!, with which I feel more affinities. On the fourth cover page of this book, the price France TTC is indicated: 16.95 euros. To read this price, I had to raise a sticker label showing the price I paid, i.e. Benelux price: 19,40 euros. I do not know if it is due to a phenomenon of accumulation of capital, according to Piketty, but for his book, the price is 25 euros in France and around 28.50 euros in Belgium. Admit that the difference is not negligible for a book published by editions based in Paris. I point out, because the argument often used is that of distance, but the distance between Paris and Perpignan is greater than between Paris and Brussels. The difference in prices is therefore not due to the cost of transport, but rather to a price arbitrarily fixed according to borders. Within the European Union, such price distortion seems unjustifiable. I see no reason to accept that the French-speaking population of Benelux should be forced to pay higher prices. All the more so since the proximity of French publishers greatly benefits this clientele and, consequently, dominates the French-language book market within Benelux, in our country, by preventing local publishing from developing. At the time I tabled the question, a petition was circulating in bookstores demanding a book price policy that was more respectful of our publishers, our bookstores and our authors, but also and above all of consumers. Minister, what is your view on this issue? What actions could you or do you intend to develop to achieve the removal of the tab?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic188x.u8	Mr President, I agree with Mr Miller's question. A historical reminder is necessary. This is not the first time this subject has come to the table. The CD&V has also re-tabled a text like for a very long time, Ecolo, Groen and others, from the MR, the PS, etc. proposals to introduce a law on the single price of books in order to prevent book prices from being braided and made into large-scale call products, by completely destructing the book marketing network, to the detriment of authors and booksellers. We have not been able to move forward on this provision. Flanders has concluded an agreement between publishers, booksellers and authors on the Dutch book market. It has concluded arrangements for cooperation with the Netherlands, etc. On the francophone side, we are working on the subject in the French Community. We are therefore at risk of finding ourselves with two provisions aimed at maintaining a book price allowing the fair remuneration of the various players, which is somewhat ridiculous. Beyond this, the tab will remain, which concerns the book in French published in France. When I have previously questioned them on this subject, neither Mr. Van Quickenborne and Mr Vande Lanotte were not aware of this phenomenon. An overprice was diverted for the French-language book sold in Belgium, which at the time had to compensate for the differences in currency change between the French franc and the Belgian franc. This overprice was to disappear with the euro and disappeared for everything, except for the book. Some publishing houses use this extra-cost mechanism by forcing Belgian booksellers to purchase from distributors in some of these publishers, preventing the bookseller from supplying themselves directly. By obliging them to do so, they impose an additional cost of 10 to 17 and sometimes 20 per cent depending on the categories of books. I've been interviewing previous ministers. I asked them to be aware of the phenomenon and to observe the aspects of "unfulfilled competition rules", complaints having been brought at European level, and "consumer protection". Minister Vande Lanotte was the last to reply, saying that the Belgian booksellers had been asked to report cases where they were prevented from purchasing directly from a publisher and therefore from applying the publisher's price. It is by collecting this information that we will determine whether and how we can act. This is not the first time that booksellers have been asked to do so. The booksellers have done and continue to do so. Minister, what is the status of this provision? I think that the Belgian and French ministers will have to organize themselves in order to get these French publishers to respect the rules and ensure that, when you buy a book published in Paris, you pay the same price in Brussels, Marseille or Perpignan because there is no justification for this difference in price.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic188x.u9	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to stress that the regulation of the price of books is a regional competence. However, it is true that some large French publishing and distribution groups continue, via their Belgian subsidiary, to apply a markup, i.e. a price supplement, which they justify by means of higher distribution costs in Belgium than in France. This practice has been examined with all due care and diligence, both by the Competition Council, now the Belgian Competition Authority, and the Authority itself. In this regard, the Autorité has indicated to me that, despite repeated requests, it has not received sufficient concrete information from booksellers who complain of refusal of supply from French publishers to open a formal instruction. I am convinced that the authority will pursue its investigation independently. You also asked Mr. Vande Lanotte, the former minister. In the current situation, the Authority is totally autonomous. She informed me that, to date, she does not have sufficient concrete information to examine and conduct the investigation in response to your request.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic188x.u10	Minister, thank you. I'd like to be sure I understand. The Autorité did not receive enough complaints from the booksellers who would have wished to apply the removal of the tagmarkup and who would have been no longer supplied by the publishers?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic188x.u11	It's not an investigation problem, it's an information problem. I understand that the Authority has no problem investigating this matter. But there is insufficient information. I've been asked to share this with you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic188x.u12	Minister, in his reply in 2014, Minister Vande Lanotte said that it had been agreed with the booksellers to concentrate efforts on the possibility for the Belgian booksellers to obtain supplies in France under the conditions applicable to French booksellers and that those who tried to obtain supplies in France undertook to provide the Belgian Authority with the evidence in case of refusal when they passed directly by the publisher. I have to tell you that when I told the booksellers about this, it was just if they didn't laugh at me. It's been so long, and they've been asked that many years ago. I think they don't believe it anymore. They no longer believe in it, they transmit insufficient data to the Autorité de la concurrence. The process must be more dynamic. Mr Miller and I can handle this as parliamentarians. If these persons follow this procedure, they will be refused. Therefore, they will have to go through the usual circuit of the distributor with the tab. They will therefore waste time. I believe that the French and Belgian Ministers of the Economy must talk to each other and recognise the problem. Moreover, the French government representatives contacted us in 2013 or 2014 to ask us to support a 6% VAT on e-book. I told them every time I didn't worry about it, but only if they took the tab off first. Having said that, I have no power. It is up to the ministers to ask these publishers to stop their game and to respect the rules of the market. It is the same book that is sold in a bookshop located more than 300 kilometers from Paris. I'll relay your answer. You, as Minister of Economy, should inform the booksellers of this issue, even if it complicates their lives, so that the Autorité de la concurrence can act. I would therefore like you to take this initiative.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic188x.u13	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Lalieux's 4053 and 4370 have lapsed. Mrs Van Hoof has just informed us that she has a few minutes' delay. I therefore propose that the committee first give the floor to Mrs Gantois for her questions before leaving Mrs Van Hoof to speak.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic188x.u14	Minister, almost a month ago it became known that the Dutch Ahold wishes to merge with the Belgian Delhaize. We are talking about two major, powerful players in the food distribution market. From this point of view, I had the following questions for you. Do you consider it possible that the concentration of two such large players could have a market-distorting effect? Will you ensure that the competition authorities can play the role they deserve here, in accordance with Article IV.9 of the Economic Law Code?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic188x.u15	Mrs Gantois, Delhaize and Ahold have announced that they will have talks with a view to a merger. As far as I'm concerned, it's not certain if this merger is going to happen. If both groups finally decide to merge, the concentration will be subject to prior approval by the competent competition authorities. In this context, the effects of the merger on the relevant markets will be examined. Given the respective turnover figures of Delhaize and Ahold, as published in their most recent annual reports, the competent competition authority in Europe is probably the European Commission. I assume that, should Delhaize and Ahold decide to merge, the Belgian competition authority will be involved in the European Commission's investigation. The rights of workers in the event of a transfer of business are protected by several European directives, transposed into Belgian law by collective agreement No. 32a of 7 June 1985. It lays down an obligation to provide prior information and consultation of employees, automatic transfer of existing employment contracts, a prohibition on dismissal, the maintenance of working conditions after the transfer and joint and several liability of the transferor and transferee for existing debts at the time of the transfer. Finally, I would like to point out that the Belgian competition authority is autonomous. I assume that the competition authority will carry out its task properly.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic188x.u16	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I believe that your attitude is correct in this regard. That merger isn't certain yet. I believe that the aim of these two companies is to increase the scale and control of the market. Perhaps we should also dare to look at this from another side. It is possible that this trend towards fusion and concentration is due to increasing pressure on the retail sector within the food sector. There is price pressure, there are new players on the market and there is the slow but certain emergence of e-commerce. If that is the case, in addition to all the other aspects of such a takeover, we must not forget to examine what this does to all the links in the chain. If this is to distort the market, we must keep an eye on who is the first victim of such a merger.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic188x.u17	Mrs Gantois, thank you for the additional elements and will take them with you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic188x.u18	Mr President, Minister, since 6 April 2012, there has been an online platform within the FPS Economy for the amicable settlement of disputes between consumers and traders, but also between traders. The platform is accessible to all consumers living in the European Union and especially to companies registered in the Crossroads Bank of Enterprises. Through the website, a seeker, on the one hand, can find information about out-of-court dispute resolution. The platform offers, on the other hand, the possibility to submit a request for mediation online within a secure area. That's why I have a few questions for you. Do you have figures on the extent to which both consumers and traders find their way to Belmed? To what extent does a visit to Belmed also effectively lead to successful dispute resolution? Do you see any points that could be improved in an evaluation of the functioning of Belmed?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic188x.u19	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, since 2012, I have been able to give figures of the number of consultations of the Belmed section on the website of the FPS Economy. No visitation figures are available for the year 2011. In 2014, there were almost 86 000 consultations, which doubles compared to 2012. Mrs Gantois, I will be able to give you a detailed table in a moment, which contains the figures per trimester. That table is also available to the President and all other members. At Belmed, the user also finds extensive information about out-of-court dispute settlement. It is therefore more than just an electronic platform that can be used to initiate an application for settlement of a dispute. Belmed has been available to users for the online submission of requests for mediation since April 2011. Since then, 831 such questions have been raised. The table, which I will present to you in a moment, contains the annual figures. Of those 831 applications, 271 concerned a sector where no arbitration body was a partner of Belmed. According to the statistics of the FPS Economy, 45 files were closed with an agreement between the parties concerned. In addition, a further 34 files were closed with an opinion from the mediation entity. Secondly, the figures I have quoted could lead to the conclusion that the operation of Belmed is not really a success. I want to nuance that already. The consultation statistics indicate that two thirds of visitors are new visitors each month. A second element is that all existing ombud services and services that engage in out-of-court dispute settlement can be contacted directly. A third element is that the European Commission and a number of Member States greatly appreciate Belmed. Furthermore, the European Commission has been inspired by Belmed to develop an online platform under the ODR Regulation. It is planned to become operational in early 2016. Finally, we do not know how the information that visitors to Belmed obtain is further used or has been useful. I'll get you the table.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic188x.u20	Minister, we do welcome the existence of Belmed. A platform for resolving consumer disputes without judicial intervention is a good platform. The intervention shall be provided by an independent mediator. That's a good thing. It is also accessible and the consultation is free of charge. Working with a mediation agency through Belmed is cheaper than a court case. In that sense, therefore, I believe that it is positive. 86 000 seems to me to be quite a number. However, it is difficult to estimate whether this really is a lot. If 45 files have been closed with an agreement, that doesn't look like much. Perhaps some more work should be done on this and there should be a little more publicity. On 1 June, you achieved the establishment of the Consumer Ombudsman, the overarching body for the out-of-court settlement of consumer disputes. Perhaps you could consider setting up such a body for the disputes between traders. I am thinking in particular of small SMEs. I think this thought is worth considering.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic188x.u21	We'll take that with us.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic188x.u22	Mr President, Minister, the general terms and conditions of contract that Keyware applies, which rents payment terminals from traders, have been brought to my attention. Following a cessation of business, a merchant terminated his lease. Keyware requires a payment of 750 euros for unilateral breach of contract, which is provided for in the general conditions of this contract. There is a break when the lease agreement is drawn up for five years. Here, the five years had not yet come to an end. Minister, does Keyware not abuse its dominant position in this case to impose clauses that are neither realistic nor proportionate? Can we not consider that the five-year non-resiliable contract (otherwise than by fee) is abusive in the case of a start-up of a business? Many businesses, unfortunately, will not exceed two years of activity. Moreover, what seems even more abusive to me is the amount of the compensation of 750 euros per terminal. Small traders are too little protected against these dominant companies. There's only one on the market. Should they not be able to enjoy the same protection as consumers?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic188x.u23	Mr. President, Ms. Lalieux, Keyware is being prosecuted in the correctional court. Only an investigation conducted by the Belgian Competition Authority could determine whether an undertaking has a dominant position and whether its practices are likely to restrict competition. Certain contractual clauses may already be challenged on the basis of general contract law. Indeed, claiming disproportionate amounts as severance pay has already been considered an abuse of rights. I am pleased to see that you share my view, which is not always the case, on better protection of small and medium-sized enterprises as expressed in my policy statement. Several contacts have already been made with stakeholders.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic188x.u24	Mr President, I thank the Minister for his answer. I was not aware that the case had already been brought before the correctional court. I did not understand whether an investigation was being conducted in the head of the Belgian Competition Authority.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic188x.u25	No!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic188x.u26	There is no investigation by the Belgian Competition Authority for unfair terms, etc. It is therefore the merchant who should lodge a complaint with the said Authority. I'm gonna ask him to do it. I, too, am very pleased with your answer, Minister!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic188x.u27	Mr President, I will be brief. Minister, the press reported the conviction of a landlord for requiring tenant candidates to hold an indefinite contract. The complaint was filed with the Centre for Equal Opportunities. This decision is, of course, right. However, when we look more closely at it, it appears that in the insurance contracts that the owner had entered into with his bank, the bank required that the tenants have contracts of indefinite duration. This is therefore a cascade responsibility. Furthermore, the company concerned was not concerned as a result of the complaint. On the one hand, the court decision can be welcomed. On the other hand, it is regrettable that insurance imposes such conditions on their customers. We know that if the owners are not insured, they cannot rent their property. There is an inconsistency here. Could you tell us if your services have been informed of this case? Are such clauses common in homeowner insurance contracts? In which case this should be rectified, possibly through a legislative initiative.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic188x.u28	Mr President, Mrs Lalieux, in accordance with the separation of powers, I have no information in my possession concerning the file which gave rise to the judgment which you referred to. Nor do I have any data to express myself as to the frequency of this type of clause. Assuralia was contacted, but this fact was new to this federation. She will examine this issue in depth and send me a report as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic188x.u29	Minister, thank you. Such clauses should not be included in insurance contracts. If they are illegal for the owners, they are of course also illegal for the insurance companies, who put the owner in the inability to rent his property. That is why it is important to protect the latter. I will look at whether we cannot take legislative initiative in this regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic188x.u30	Mr President, Minister, my first question concerns take-away restaurants. In cities like Leuven, where I come from, that phenomenon is increasing enormously. Especially in student neighborhoods, nightlife quarters and where there is an empty position problem, takeaway restaurants show up. As with any restaurant, quality is paramount and consumers will only go to restaurants that offer good quality. However, I have some questions because there is clearly a shift in this sector. The Royal Decree of 1984 deals with the conditions to be met by restaurants. In view of this shift in the sector, the question arises as to whether new conditions should be imposed on take-away restaurants. First of all, Minister, I would like to know whether there is a greater problem in the checks carried out, both on hygiene and food safety and those carried out by the RVA in cooperation with the local police areas than in other restaurants. Can you give me figures for the past period? Secondly, does the compulsory training for restaurant operators on hygiene rules and food safety also meet today's requirements for take-away restaurants, or does it require greater depth? Thirdly, do you think it is necessary to broaden the debate in the light of the Royal Decree of 1984? Should a take-away store be subject to wider regulation, for example on professional knowledge and competence, as is necessary in a restaurant? The combined question is also about a new phenomenon, especially the so-called food trucks. These are sympathetic vans, mostly old-timer vans, which are originally converted and from which catering is driven. They've become, as it were, moving restaurants. A summer festival now also resembles a festival of food trucks. To that extent, it has become popular. It is a new phenomenon that has also caused a shift in the sector. The obligatory fries and hamburger stalls used to exist, but now it has become much wider and consumers can also choose from a wide range of dishes from around the world. The same questions apply here, namely whether or not the food trucks should be subject to more rules. Mr President, first of all, what checks have been carried out and what infringements have been detected in the previous period? How many infringements were there in terms of hygiene and food safety? Secondly, is there more need for inspection at events and festivals? Will you bet more on that in the future? Thirdly, is an authorisation sufficient to carry out an out-of-arms trade, a swindler's card, or is there also a need for basic training in hygiene and food safety? Fourthly, is there a need for a wider debate in order to make the driving restaurants more regulated, such as basic vocational training which demonstrates the professional skills of the operator?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic188x.u31	Mr President, Mrs Van Hoof, I shall begin by replying on the powers of economic regulation. Firstly, each year, the Economic Inspectorate conducts hundreds of surveys in the catering sector. There were 709 in 2011 and 524 in 2014. I will immediately provide you with a detailed table of figures on the number of investigations, the number of pro-justi-ties and the number of minutes of warning. It is not possible to divide the figures by province. The investigation will examine whether the legislation or any aspect of it is being complied with by a particular undertaking, such as price indication, registration in the FBO and business skills. These are, moreover, the three main problems identified. Investigations follow complaints because they are known to be justified in most cases. Hence the large number of pro-justi ities in relation to the number of studies. Finally, it may be that a warning is followed by a pro-justitia because the undertaking has not acted in a timely or inappropriate manner. Secondly, since 2012, sector data can also be cross-referenced with sales methods. In the last three years, 11 reports have been received for outpatient catering, three of which gave rise to further research. In two cases the data concerned KBO and in one case undeclared work. Sometimes punctual checks are carried out on the site, in cooperation with municipal or regional inspection services. This was the case, for example, around the stadium of Anderlecht. In order to ensure an efficient use of resources, the Economic Inspection shall carry out a risk and complaint analysis. This does not raise the problem of the hospitality industry. However, checks are planned in the light of the festivities around the 200th anniversary of the Battle of Waterloo, in cooperation with the competent police zones. The Economic Inspection starts with investigations into price indication in the street. In almost all commercial transactions in a given street or street, it is checked that the price indication is correct. This was communicated to the Catering Federations and explained, among other things, how the price indication should be made at Catering Establishments. It is the authorities of the Regions that are competent in terms of enterprise skills and out-of-arm trade. In your question, and rightly so, you also ask your concerns about food safety, and other ministers are responsible for that. As regards the checks on social laws, in 2014, a total of 1 315 checks were carried out by the Executive Board on the social laws in the hospitality sector. It is not possible to separate the control of food trucks from these figures. The document I am about to present to you contains detailed figures for each province since 2010. The most frequent infringements are also reflected in each province. In the light of the 2015 Action Plan, the General Executive Board will continue to monitor social laws in the hospitality sector. Mr President, I would like to present to you the figures so that you can deliver them to all Members, and certainly to Mr Van Hoof.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic188x.u32	Thank you, Minister, for your detailed reply and I will look at the figures. I had initially addressed this question to Minister De Block, but she was referred to this committee for I do not know what reason. It is important to point out that this is a new phenomenon that is expanding. The sector is changing and regulations need to be adapted. Hence my question of differentiation, both in the area of take-away restaurants and in the area of out-of-town trade, where it is increasingly apparent that they are becoming real restaurants. From the hospitality industry, the question arises as to why they are subject to less stringent regulations than they are themselves.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic188x.u33	Madam President, Minister, I was able to read in the press that more than 500 people were victims of the hacking of their prepaid credit cards. The prepaid credit card is a new service offered by some banks and allows those who benefit from it to make various purchases on the Internet or abroad. Furthermore, this card is not linked to a bank account and must be loaded in advance. This service, which seems interesting on paper, is actually a problem because it is subject to piracy. Some people have lost money, a few hundred euros, others don't even know that their card has been hacked. This is confirmed by the Brussels Judicial Police. I wonder why pirates are targeting this type of card, especially since, according to Febelfin, the security standards of these cards are similar to credit cards. Minister, have you heard of these hackings? Have you had any information about why pirates are targeting these new maps? Finally, what can the citizen who has been the victim of this piracy do?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic188x.u34	Minister, as my colleague has already mentioned, more than 500 customers with a prepaid credit card were the victims of fraud. Via fake websites, the fraudsters hacked the credit cards and then emptied them. A prepaid credit card is a payment card that is not linked to a current account and can be reloaded by setting up a certain amount. Fortunately, they are usually relatively limited amounts, but fraud of course remains fraud. What surprised me is that I read in the press articles that such prepaid cards are sold anonymously. I therefore have a few questions, Minister. Are there any banking institutions that sell a prepaid credit card completely anonymously? If so, which one? Is it allowed to sell a credit card completely anonymously without the bank registering who the buyer is? Does the FSMA check these practices? Is the security of a prepaid credit card equivalent to that of a conventional credit card? If not, what measures can you take against this? If so, does that mean that ordinary credit cards are also at risk of being hacked on a large scale?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic188x.u35	Madam President, Minister, I will not repeat everything that my colleagues have just said. Financial institutions like Belfius and bpost offer such cards. They are easily available. The question that arises concerns their security. Is the maximum amount of reloading of these cards not too high in view of the risk of fraud? Should we not have a fully protected and secure card? If total security is not possible, it would be preferable for these cards to be limited to smaller amounts.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic188x.u36	Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the situation has already been well defined, so I shall confine myself to the questions. I was actually surprised that those prepaid cards could be purchased anonymously. That is why I have a number of questions about this too. Is there actually a view on how many prepaid cards are in circulation? Is there any knowledge as to which institutions offer these cards anonymously? Is the fact that they are offered anonymously entirely legal? There is probably a fear that if such a fraud is possible with prepaid cards it can also use ordinary credit cards. How is safety foreseen in this respect? The press also said that many people do not know that their prepaid card has been hacked because there are no copies or bank statements indicating that money has been collected. How can consumers check whether their card has been hacked or not? If they find out she's been hacked, what are they supposed to do? Is there any possibility of compensation?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic188x.u37	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will endeavour to answer the many questions that have just arisen. What maps of which providers were endorsed are currently part of a criminal investigation. In reply to my question, Febelfin stated that for the cards issued by the financial institutions, the fraudsters do not specifically focus on prepaid cards, the prepaid cards. As far as anonymity is concerned, Febelfin informs me that these cards are either distributed to persons who already have a current account with those financial institutions and who are thus already known or whose identity is properly verified when the card is issued. The financial institutions must apply the anti-money laundering legislation strictly, and the National Bank of Belgium strictly sees this as a prudential supervisor. Although the cards may not be registered, the buyers are well known. Authentication when making payments is therefore done in the same way as with ordinary credit cards. The security of such cards is equivalent to that of the classic cards and the risk derivatives are of the same nature. The imposition of ceilings for cards with equivalent security would not be proportionate in this sense. However, the European Payment Services Directive provides for a separate small-value card regime, with a charging limit of up to EUR 150, where consumer protection rules are less burdensome. Cards with large storage limits must, however, comply with all the rules and obligations imposed on ordinary payment cards. However, should it appear that certain payment methods placed on the market entail particular security risk derivatives, intervention may be considered. It should also be borne in mind that foreign institutions also place such cards on our market under a European passport. Intervention in the market must be considered and proportionate. Moreover, this should be in line with the European regulatory framework. The customer is always advised to exercise caution, check his expenses regularly and, as soon as he finds irregularities, contact the designated authority immediately to block the card. I will ask the National Bank for a report, because it is necessary to act.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic188x.u38	Minister, thank you for your full answer. However, the risk is still present and vigilance must continue to be a priority. I remember your last sentence, it will certainly take something other than vigilance!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic188x.u39	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I am glad you were able to reassure me, because I did not understand the articles in the press at all. It's not because there's no name printed on a card that there's no link between that card and a physical person. From my previous professional activities I know what a burden that sometimes entails, as the card was just not linked to an account and had to go through the parallel ICT circuit to record the data, both from the person who actually purchased and paid the card and from the person for whom that card was intended. After all, it is perfectly possible that someone buys such a card to give to their son or daughter, for example, who travels abroad. That is why this is a very useful instrument, a very nice addition to the range of payment instruments. It would be a pity that this would disappear because there would be something wrong with it. I'm glad to hear that security structure is at least similar. Unfortunately, we encounter Hacking in many areas and we must continue to fight it. In this respect, I am reassured by your reply, for which I am grateful.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic188x.u40	Minister, it is true that what the press reported about the anonymity of these cards was surprising, since anonymous cards favour money laundering. It is reassuring to know that a card is always linked to a person. The security coverages are therefore the same for these prepaid cards. Therefore, there is no question of setting a ceiling. The measures to be taken must be proportionate. Requesting a report from the National Bank is necessary. Indeed, pirates are creative. It is important to look at a better security of these cards while knowing that they are necessary for the daily lives of their users.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic188x.u41	Thank you, Minister, for your comprehensive reply. It is a good thing that a criminal investigation was launched, and we are now waiting for the results. Thank you also for the explanation on anonymity. This caused some confusion in the press and in consumers, so it is a good thing that this has been cleared up. Your question to the National Bank is quite justified. First, advice or an investigation must be sought and those results must be awaited before action is taken. Financial institutions must certainly also inform consumers about the potential advantages and disadvantages or the consequences of such cards. In any case, it is good that further investigations are requested from the National Bank.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic188x.u42	Minister, the European directive MiFID, which aims, among other things, to protect investors, obliges bankers to draw up a risk profile for any client who wishes to invest. This prevents bankers from selling products that do not fit the client's investor profile. For example, a defensive investor will not be able to sell risky equity funds. Of course, consumer protection, which is the aim of this proposal, is a positive one, although it is important that the objective is achieved effectively. In The Time of 16 May, a major point of pain of the directive was raised. According to the article, the risk profile of the customer is fixed for two years, while the economic environment is constantly changing. Due to low interest rates or rising stock market value, the customer may tend to take slightly more or less risk than before to adapt his behaviour to possible market conditions. However, the investor will not be able to do so, because his banker is not allowed to sell those products to him because of his risk profile, which is established for two years. Both the customer and the consultant therefore do not have the opportunity to adapt to the market. Conversely, after the delay by MiFID, it is not unthinkable for a customer to change his profile to more risky, but just at the wrong time, i.e. when prices have risen too high. As a result, he would buy high-risk products at a time when there is much less potential in the market and the risk that the market will fall again, with all the consequences. The European MiFID, which has good intentions in the field of consumer protection, sometimes has a reverse effect because of its lack of consistency. Customer and consultant cannot adapt to market trends and therefore lag behind the facts. Minister, is it true that the risk profile imposed by MiFID is fixed for two years? What's with the two-year deadline? Are you aware of the problems involved? Have you already consulted on this at European level? If not, are you planning to? What do you think are possible modifications?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic188x.u43	Mr Klaps, first of all, there is no provision in the law that an investor profile is fixed for two years. Moreover, the law does not require an investor profile to be established. The law requires information from the customer about his knowledge and experience, his objectives and his financial standing when providing investment advice and asset management services. Banks should verify on the basis of that information whether the proposed transaction is appropriate for the customer concerned. Where it carries out an operation on its own initiative and in so far as non-complex financial instruments such as shares listed on a regulated market are concerned, the bank should not even collect information. This is the case, for example, for investors investing online. In order to meet their obligations to obtain information from the customer, banks generally use standardised questionnaires. On the basis of those questionnaires, its investor profiles are created to allow them to advise appropriate investment instruments for the customer concerned. Banks must ensure that the information they have about their customers remains up-to-date. When a customer wishes to invest more risky and expects advice, he can always inform his bank that his objectives have changed in this respect. The bank will then have to assess to what extent the customer has sufficient knowledge and experience to correctly assess the risk of intended transactions. Neither the Belgian regulations nor the MiFID itself provide for a period of validity of the information collected about the customer. Each bank must ensure that its own policies are designed in such a way that it always has a good and up-to-date knowledge of its customers. This is also confirmed by ESMA's (ESMA, European Securities and Markets Authority) Guidelines on certain aspects of MiFID fitness requirements.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic188x.u44	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. In fact, I only found that two-year period in certain press articles. Perhaps together with your cabinet, we should organise information sessions for the financial journalists. Yet there is a certain rigidity in the system. It may well be that it is used by the banks themselves and is not based on certain directives. If a customer in the bank is interested in an investment that is just outside his profile, it can be seen in practice in two ways. One can adjust the risk profile of the customer, because his profile has changed effectively. Unfortunately, from a precautionary principle and sometimes even out of fear of the FSMA and for possible controls, one often has the reflex not to adjust that profile and then immediately to make an investment that only fits the profile, because after that one may get a lot of questions. I would like to ask you, with Febelfin, if necessary, to look at the practice of banks in this case and whether the banks are effectively applying internal guidelines on a possible adjustment of the risk profile. According to my information, it's pretty tough on certain banks, and then the profile goes by its target. The aim should be to ensure that the profile corresponds at any time to the customer's intentions, knowledge and wishes.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic188x.u45	Minister, we often talk about the FSMA and the National Bank together. Recently, Philippe Colle, the managing director of Assuralia, said that by 2016, the annual costs of the supervision of the FSMA and the National Bank in the insurance sector would reach EUR 46.5 million, which would be three times more than what the then CBFA claimed in 2008. This means that Belgian insurers pay more than the German, French and Italian insurers, although they generate a much larger turnover, even up to six times as much because of their larger sales market. This makes Belgium the most expensive country in the EU in terms of supervision costs, while all Member States must comply with the same rules of financial soundness, solvency and consumer protection. Can you confirm the figures I got from the press? What is the cause of the high supervisory costs? Is the increase in supervisory costs proportionate to the increased protection given? Do you consider that adjustments should be made to the FSMA and the National Bank to reduce these costs if necessary?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic188x.u46	Mr Klaps, first of all I think it is useful to refer to the press release published by the National Bank in response to the Assuralia declaration. In that communiqué, the National Bank states the following. As a result of the 2008 financial crisis, the National Bank and the FSMA have introduced a new supervisory structure for the banking and insurance sector, the so-called Twin Peaks structure, to ensure optimal supervision of these sectors. In recent years, prudential supervision of insurance undertakings has developed significantly at European level into more complex risk-based supervision. (Solvency II). The entry into force of Solvency II at the beginning of 2016 led the National Bank of Greece, which, by the way, carefully monitored its cost reduction to the necessary level, to strengthen and specialise its staff in order to respond to this changing environment. The National Bank therefore also responds to the recommendation made by the IMF in the framework of its FSAP in 2012. Indeed, the IMF considered that funds used in Belgium for prudential supervision compared to other markets of similar size are significantly lower than those available in other countries. The same applies to the FSMA, particularly in view of the extensive extension of its powers at national level in the field of insurance, both as regards the rules of conduct for the insurance sector and the problems of segmentation, non-discrimination or complex products sold in the form of Tak 23 products. This extension of the powers of the FSMA does indeed imply an increase in supervisory costs. However, this increase is perfectly justified in view of the new tasks and objectives set by the legislator. However, according to the FSMA, the figures that Assuralia puts forward are exaggerated. As far as the National Bank is concerned, I refer to the Minister of Finance who is responsible for this matter. I also note that Assuralia did not take account of the situation in the Netherlands in its estimates, although this is the country that is closest to Belgium in terms of supervisory architecture and where supervision costs are higher than in our country. Moreover, the FSMA has spread the expected increase in operating costs over three years, thus avoiding a brutal increase. Finally, I would also like to point out that any surpluses in the budget will be returned to the sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic188x.u47	Thank you, Minister, for this comprehensive answer. You should not convince me that it was necessary to extend the tasks of both the National Bank and the FSMA. It is wise to continue to look critically at the cost structure of these organisations and to continue to conduct benchmarking. In other European countries, too, costs increase, for example because of Solvency II. Let this be a call to look at this permanently critically.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic188x.u48	As agreed, we shall now proceed to the question under item 13. Mr Klaps, we'll just switch.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic188x.u49	Minister, I promise to leave you alone for today after this question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic188x.u50	For today?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic188x.u51	That's all I can promise! Minister, in the Netherlands the banks have shown their ambition to process payment transactions within four years, read transfers, within five seconds. This means that in case of an electronic payment in a shop or via the internet, or in case of a transfer between persons or companies, that transaction will be processed immediately, even during the weekend and on public holidays. To make this possible, banks and stakeholders will work together on a completely new payment infrastructure. It is not surprising that this bank project has great support in the business world. Due to the slow processing in the Netherlands, companies lost tens of millions of euro per year. That will not be any different with us, because payments are also made at weekends or on a holiday, not immediately processed. We, too, need automated, fast and permanent processing of payment transactions. Do you also consider it necessary, Minister, for this to be done in Belgium? Has there been any consultation on this matter with the Minister of Finance, the banks, the business community and others? Have any concrete plans been drawn up yet? If not, are you planning to do so in the near future?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic188x.u52	Madam President, Mr Klaps, in the context of the rapid evolution of the digital economy, the Belgian banking sector is aware of the evolution of its customers' expectations. It could indeed be useful and have economic positive effects if consumers, businesses and all other users of payment services could make payments outside working hours, both on weekdays and on weekends. Especially through innovative technologies and new players in the market, it should be possible to move the payment methods towards real-time processing. The Belgian banks and the National Bank are currently examining their impact on the existing infrastructure, as well as the changes that would be necessary. The National Bank reported that a vision document and a road map are being worked on in Belgium to enable instant payments of the same kind as the initiative in the Netherlands. These documents will soon be validated by the Belgian banking sector. The European Commission and the European Central Bank are also considering whether a European solution should be offered, as payment traffic has already been highly harmonised at European level. Mr Klaps, I believe that those elements have helped you to answer your last question for today.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic188x.u53	Minister, we are trying in many ways to get less cash into our society, and this for all kinds of reasons ranging from security about money laundering operations to undeclared work. In my view, this initiative would be a wonderful addition to this objective. I often hear shopkeepers complaining about too high transaction costs in electronic payments. We must, of course, try to get that down. This could even be an alternative, especially for the larger amounts. One can simply overwrite the amount and before the purchase is packed it has already been paid and the trader can check it. The possibilities in this area are endless. In the past we used to be a pioneer in the field of payments and banking. Unfortunately, we are now apparently a bit behind schedule, and still in the Netherlands. Hopefully we will catch up quickly and be able to show results by the end of this legislature.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic188x.u54	Minister, in the Panorama portage of 21 May 2015, the stories of three road accident victims were followed. All three had suffered damage which was not easy to determine, and in all three cases the insurance institution did its utmost not to see any damage or to link the damage to the accident. The reportage also focused on the problems that arise in the courtroom. In fact, it wouldn't have to come to that if the insurance institutions were to adopt a different attitude. The victims are, quite understandably, already impressed by their accident. The last thing they need is an insurance institution that puts pressure on them to minimize or wave away their damage. If one does not get out of it, one goes to court, where the victims are overwhelmed with medical and legal jargon. Once the ball starts rolling, the costs pile up and it takes a very long time for a verdict to come. This doesn't benefit any of the victims. In the meantime, the victim himself must bear the cost of the treatment. Who's gonna stand up for the victims? I believe, Minister, that we must put an end to this. Victims should be given a correct and complete overview of their rights and obligations from the outset in understandable language. The victim must have the right to be informed at any time after any investigation, in understandable language. In addition, an in-depth analysis and better assistance at the friendly settlement stage should be a faster and cheaper way to close the case for both parties. I see here an important task for the insurance institutions. Minister, do you agree with me that insurance institutions should deal more correctly with the victims of accidents with or without visible damage? Are you prepared to develop a brochure on the rights and obligations of victims, which can be distributed through insurance institutions? Do you see any possibility of obliging insurance institutions to submit their reasons and conclusions to the parties concerned in understandable language after each examination?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic188x.u55	Mrs Vanheste, I would like to add that victims of traffic damage must be treated in a correct and, above all, humane way. Insurance undertakings and insurance intermediaries are subject to two types of rules of conduct. On the one hand, there are the rules of conduct laid down by law, and on the other hand, there are the rules of conduct agreed at sector level. With regard to the code of conduct laid down by law, I refer to the code of conduct for the protection of policyholders. For example, insurance undertakings and their intermediaries must provide their customers with sufficient pre-contractual information, communicate with their customers in a correct, clear and non-misleading manner, ensure that the agreements offered match their customers' wishes and needs and commit themselves in a loyal, equitable and professional manner to their customers' interests. With regard to the sectoral rules of conduct, insurance companies and their professional organisations have made efforts to properly address victims of physical injury. In this context, insurance undertakings have adopted a number of codes of conduct with regard to compensation for physical damage. In particular, the rules of conduct on compensation were extended with regard to dealing with major accident victims, rules of conduct on compensation for accidents in children were developed and recommendations were made on the compensation scheme as a whole. There is also a similar code of conduct with regard to legal aid insurance, which lays down in very detail how the insurer should handle the information, advice and communication when his legal aid insured is a victim of a serious injury accident. The codes of conduct can be consulted by the public on the Assuralia website. They have a binding force vis-à-vis all Assuralia members' insurance undertakings. If a victim has not been treated in accordance with those rules, they may lodge a complaint with the Insurance Ombudsman, who may act with the insurance undertakings in the interests of the victims. Of course, dealing with victims can always be optimised. The wider disclosure of the sector's initiatives can certainly be looked at. First of all, I am thinking of the website of the FPS Economy and of the FSMA, where a link to the code of conduct can be created and the necessary explanations can also be given about the procedure with the insurance ombudsman. Finally, I will ask Assuralia to consider how insurance companies themselves can increase the visibility of the existing scheme. I can also tell you that the code of conduct itself already contains a wide range of obligations regarding the timely and clear justification of the investigation and its communication to the victim. Finally, I would like to make it clear that codes of conduct, to which the companies have committed themselves, must be respected. I am addressing Assuralia and instructing the administration to thoroughly analyse the application of the code. Codes are good, especially when much is included, but they must also be applied in practice. I will insist that this happens effectively.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic188x.u56	Mr President, Minister, I am very pleased that we are of the same opinion and that you will seek information from Assuralia. I just want to say that sometimes it's difficult for the victims. They do not always know their rights and it is not always clear to them. In addition, when injured, victims are often not so mature, which makes it easy for people out of the profession to shut them up. I hope you catch the bull by the horns.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic188x.u57	Question No 1, by Mr De Pasquale (H-l Mrs Cassart-Mailleux's 4583, 4620 and 4624 have been converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic188x.u58	Deputy Prime Minister, on 19 May, the European Commission adopted its programme for better regulation, putting in place its proposals for a review and work for better European legislation. In this regard, the FEB has recently said: "Limiting the administrative burden on businesses to what is strictly necessary to achieve its political objectives and to ensure that the cumulative effects of the various laws in place are avoided will help to support sustainable growth and employment". Today, too many SMEs are concerned that they are not always able to understand and apply the rules laid down by the European institutions. The FEB added: "This mentality in favour of smart regulation must also extend to administrations responsible for transposing European directives into national law". The FEB therefore calls on our various governments to avoid transposing European directives without going beyond Europe's requirements. Deputy Prime Minister, the FEB therefore calls on our governments to take a lead on the matter in order to anticipate its evolution as best as possible. Where do we stand at this level? Is there already a consultation on the subject with the other levels of government?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic188x.u59	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Friart, the Better Regulation initiative has been taken by the Commission to review its own methods and objectives in order to - according to the known approach - do better what needs to be done while leaving behind initiatives with low European added value. I would point out that within the framework of European legislative activity, the power of initiative is centralised with the Commission without being open to other political institutions. On 4 December 2014, the Council adopted political conclusions in response to the smart regulation initiative and the REFIT commission. The Belgian position before the Council has been defined and formulated in accordance with the rules for the coordination of European policy. In these processes, the federated powers are fully associated and have therefore accepted the Belgian position and the Council's conclusions. In the Belgian constitutional framework, it is therefore for each authority concerned to apply the approved principles as far as it is concerned. Each authority has its own administrative simplification policy where better regulation is applied. As regards the Commission's last action, which calls for a revision of the interinstitutional agreement regulating the relations between the three branches of the European legislator, the exercise of the definition of a Belgian political position is currently under way, according to the same mechanism. On the subject of strengthening European rules, the Belgian policy line remains to support maximum harmonisation, the only way to guarantee a genuine demand-driven internal market, particularly for consumers. This line is followed in the European debates. Belgium recommends refraining from national reference or internal market clauses allowing for additional national legislation. Indeed, it is understood that this possibility generates a segmentation of the internal market that runs counter to the single market objective. For my part, I am determined not to use this so-called gold plating method and my services have ongoing training to refrain from doing so.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic188x.u60	I have nothing to add. Thank you for your answer, Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic188x.u61	Minister, the Code of Economic Law sets out a number of obligations with respect to copyright societies. We know that this is legislation in response to the many abuses found in these societies, the main one of which is not to distribute the fees collected to artists, in fact their primary function. The obligations include managing rights in a fair and non-discriminatory manner in the interests of the rightholders, being structured and organised in such a way as to limit the risk of conflicts of interest, separating their own assets and those entitled, and having a management structure and an accounting organisation; the obligation to publish the rules on pricing, collection and remuneration of the company by mode of operation; the obligation to allocate the fees collected within 24 months and the obligation to refrain from levying more than 15 % to cover the administrative burden. They are also subject to both internal and external controls. This subject was the subject of much debate in our committee. Minister, your administration is responsible for monitoring the proper application of the law by collective societies. However, challenges are still being heard, despite legislative changes and stricter rules. Can you tell us when the last check carried out by your services took place? What are the conclusions? Have any violations been found?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic188x.u62	Dear colleague, the management company control department carries out its monitoring on a permanent basis. In comparison with the new obligations of management companies, the current approach of the control department is essentially preventive. The aim is to help collectives to submit 2015 accounts in accordance with the new requirements. This preventive approach led in particular to the sending of three documents to management companies: a checklist mentioning what the control department will verify and when and how it will verify it; a questionnaire on the measures that management companies are implementing; a comment on how to implement and monitor the Royal Decree of 25 April 2014. In 2016, the audit department will review the 2015 accounts. In the immediate future, management companies are taking the necessary steps. With regard to the publication of tariffs and the speed of allocation, it should be noted that the Code of Economic Law does not change the previous regime. A general tariff publication survey was conducted in 2013. In addition, the monitoring service calculated in 2015 the average speed of distribution. The Panel finds that in 2013, these companies failed to comply with the obligation to distribute the duties collected within 24 months. The control department will verify that these companies indicate the reasons why the 24 months are exceeded. With respect to the percentage of expenses, the 2013 Annual Report of the Monitoring Service states that the weighted average of the operating costs ratio was 15.95 per cent between 2008 and 2012. On the basis of 2013 figures, nine companies exceed the legal maximum of 15%. The control department will verify that the companies concerned indicate the reasons why the 15 % charge was exceeded. With regard to the shortcomings found by the inspection service, the details of the five procedures that have been conducted since 2011 and presented in the annual report of the inspection service, two of these procedures have recently resulted in the publication of a breach and the prohibition of an illegal tariff. Between 2012 and 2015, there were six judgments and judgments relating to the infringement proceedings initiated by the inspection service. All these procedures have finally turned to the advantage of the State. I would like to draw your attention, Mrs Lalieux, to the fact that all the information on the above subject is available in the 2013 Annual Report of the Monitoring Service.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic188x.u63	Mr President, I thank the Minister for his precise and comprehensive answer. I'll go see the annual report. As it was 2013, I did not know if it was the last available report. When we look at the number of collecting societies that are not yet fully compliant with the law, it is important that these controls continue. They are there to manage the rights of others, not to manage themselves. If we changed the law, it was because there was a lot of abuse. Apparently, there's still some. I am therefore pleased to hear that the monitoring service is quite active on this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic188x.u64	Minister, a study has recently been carried out into the major consumer problems. This showed that second place is the problems faced by consumers with customer services. According to many surveyed consumers, customer services have too extensive a choice menu, they do not immediately get the right person or they collide with an answering machine. According to this research, this leads to a lot of irritation and frustration on the part of consumers. As many as 32.8 % of consumers participating in the study indicated that they felt this was a problem. You have rightly announced that you would sit around the table with the companies to evaluate their customer services. That is a very good measure. Has that meeting taken place yet? Which companies would you sit around the table with? When can we expect the results of this? You have also announced that you want to sensitise businesses in order to help consumers better. Do you have any concrete actions in mind? You would also evaluate customer services in the future. When can we expect the results?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic188x.u65	Mr Dierick, book XVI of the Economic Law Code states that each undertaking must ensure that it can answer the questions relating to the contracts concluded. It must respond to complaints as soon as possible and make every effort to find a satisfactory solution. Those rules have been in force for a year. I have instructed the FPS Economy to make an initial analysis of the pain points in the various sectors on the basis of the complaints he has received in this regard. The aim is then to consult with the sectors concerned and to make them aware of these rules. If that is not enough, then I will not fail to instruct the inspection services of the FPS to make on-the-spot findings and to take appropriate measures. I hope to be able to start discussions as soon as possible, based on the analysis of the FPS Economy.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic188x.u66	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I find it remarkable that just the customer services, the first contact point for customers, are causing great annoyance to consumers. It is good that research is continued to expose the bottlenecks and to link possible actions to them. I hope that the analysis will be carried out quickly so that we can clarify this.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic188x.u67	Minister, I have a question for you on the transposition of the directive on the disclosure of non-financial information. For corporate social responsibility, it is important that companies report non-financial information in addition to financial information. In this way, investors and other stakeholders can get a full picture of the company's performance. A new Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 22 October 2014 amending the 2013 Directive on the publication of non-financial information and information on diversity by certain large companies and groups was adopted within the "EEO and Corporate Responsibility' Action Plan (EEO, Equal Employment Opportunity). From 6 December 2016, certain large companies that are public-interest organisations and exceed an average workforce of 500 employees will be required to include adequate non-financial information in their annual report. This report should include at least information on environmental, social and personnel issues, respect for human rights and the fight against corruption and bribery. In addition, large listed companies will have to make their diversity policies public. Member States shall be allowed until 6 December 2016 at the latest to transpose this Directive into national law. Hence my questions to you, Minister. What steps has our country already taken to implement this directive? What steps will our country take to transpose this directive into national law in good time? The new rules will apply to large companies and organisations such as listed companies, banks and insurance institutions. Will they be informed in good time? Will they be heard? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic188x.u68	Mr Claerhout, I will answer you briefly and hopefully clearly and adequately. I can confirm that a draft law transposing the said directive is in preparation. As soon as the technical draft is ready, I will seek advice from the Central Council for Business. Then, as you know, it will have to be submitted to the Council of Ministers for approval. In view of the deadline for transposition, which runs until 6 December 2016, companies will be informed in good time.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic188x.u69	Thank you, Minister, for your clear answer. I'm glad to hear this. I would like to hear a little more about the discussion on this subject, but that will come later. I think it is very important for Belgium to play a leading role in working for a sustainable global economy and to take the combination of the success and profitability of companies with social protection and environmental protection very seriously. With a wink at what you are doing about "Workable Work': many studies have already been published that show that people feel very good in companies where they can fully support the company's mission, vision and attitude. I believe that this transposition can also be important in this context.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic188x.u70	Minister, this is the second time I have asked the question in a fairly short space of time, which may not please you. As you know, different laws have been enacted in recent years to reduce the cost of care in the event of hospitalization. I will not go back to the fact that, during the debate in the House, I had reiterated my support for the principle of abolishing supplements of fees in the double chamber and in the joint chamber; but I was asking - under the previous government - for guarantees to be associated with them, including ensuring that it was patients and not ultimately the insurances that benefited from the abolition of supplements of fees. Since the latter are generally covered by hospital insurance, which is taken over by more than 80% of Belgians, I had called on the government to ensure that this amount recovered by insurance led to a halt to the explosion of premiums observed in recent years. A few weeks ago, I asked you about the evolution of insurance premiums in recent years to see if there was a decrease in premiums in 2014 following the adoption of legislation to prohibit supplements in the event of hospitalization; I also wanted to know if you were planning to act actively to regulate hospital insurance premiums. You told me that the 2014 data were not yet known. I quote: "It is therefore not possible to discuss the evolution of premiums for 2014 and to check whether the aforementioned laws have had an impact on the height of these premiums". You also told me that you were still in consultation with the sector concerned and that you were trying to have as balanced a hospital insurance market as possible. Minister, I'm coming back to you today to see if you have any data on the height of hospital insurance premiums in 2014? I can't believe you're telling me again that you don't have the numbers, just because some insurance companies put their rates on the public square. This is the case for AXA, which increased premiums for individuals and DKV by 20%, which announced an increase in premiums from 3.88 to 5.73% depending on the age group of the insured. Is this now clearer in consultation with the sector? Do you intend to take specific measures to regulate these hospital insurance premiums?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic188x.u71	Mr President, Mrs Fonck, first of all, I am very pleased to answer your very relevant questions. The National Bank will publish official figures for 2014 in October 2015. The latest available data, both from Assuralia and the National Bank, therefore refer to the 2013 cash flow. On the other hand, I can tell you that the Price Observatory included in its quarterly report on health-related insurance, a rate of change for 2014 of 4.5% and, for the first quarter of this year, 2.9%. Hospital insurance premiums, especially the medical index - and this is very important! - are currently the subject of a study carried out by my administration in consultation with the sector, of course. Indeed, following the annulment by the Council of State of the Royal Decree determining the specific indices for the land insurance contract, a solution should be found to regulate the premiums for health insurance contracts unrelated to professional activity.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic188x.u72	Minister, thank you. We're moving forward. You quoted the figures from the Price Observatory. I have no doubt that those we receive in October will be very close to it. It is wise to have asked your administration to prepare this study in consultation with the sector. You were a little pushed in the back by the Council of State, which overturned the order. I'm delighted, because it forces you to move forward. Nevertheless, I would like to pay attention to the following fact, which has been going on for years in a rather surreal way: insurance premiums continue to rise. Meanwhile, both attempts are made to obtain tariff security for the patient, but in a number of cases hospitals are prohibited from applying supplements. As I recall, the MAHA study shows that 40% of hospitals are in the red. And, you will recognize, they are not all poorly managed. In practice, does the State, by issuing injunctions in terms of the organisation of public health, bring real added value to the patient? If so, it is very limited because for the majority of them, the costs are covered by insurance. And hospitals are prevented from having a supplement when they are in a very difficult financial situation. Ultimately, the situation benefits insurance and, worse, the patient continues to pay higher and higher premiums. This mechanism is quite surreal, and I would like to stress that perhaps these are elements that should be put on the table with the sector in order to measure the reality.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic188x.u73	Mr Minister, Article VI.25 of the Code of Economic Law teaches us that next month there will be new soldiers in our country. For the time being we will not notice much of this in the street, as we are in the month preceding the solders, the so-called barrier period. During that period, traders in the clothing, leather goods and footwear sectors are prohibited from announcing price reductions. You will probably agree with me that the perimeter period is rather controversial. It has already been the subject of a number of social debate and legal rulings. Last year, for example, the European Court of Justice ruled that the Belgian legislation goes too far in this respect. There are, therefore, retail chains such as ZEB, which have for years ignored Belgian regulations, which are unique. They firmly choose to follow the interpretation of European law and proceed to the announcement of price reductions during the period of prohibition. In addition, however, there are numerous legal possibilities to avoid the ban. I am thinking, for example, of whispering and tying. More and more traders also make effective use of the possibilities. The situation is therefore confusing, which, of course, is not conducive to our economic fabric. A publication on the website of the FPS Economy doesn't make things any clearer either. It says, I quote: "However, these rules can in fact no longer be applied, following recent case-law of the European Court of Justice, the judgment of 10 July 2014'. Furthermore, the notice states that it is necessary, on a case-by-case basis, to examine whether the announcement of price reductions is unfair. Firstly, what is your assessment of the legislation at the barrier period? Secondly, have you already taken steps to put an end to the continuing legal uncertainty? If so, which one? Thirdly, are you considering bringing Belgian legislation into line with the European legal framework?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic188x.u74	Mr Janssen, in the drafting of the book VI of the Economic Law Code, the prohibition of the announcement of price reductions was maintained during the barrier period. The ban was taken over in response to the industry's demand to ensure healthy competition between SMEs and large-scale distribution. The explanatory memorandum expressly clarifies that the provisions are designed to protect competition and ensure fair market practices between undertakings. The judgment of the European Court of Justice of 10 July 2014 does not refer to the rules on solders and barriers. It does deal with the rules on price reduction notices and, in particular, the obligation to indicate a reference price. At our initiative, the Council of Ministers adopted a draft law amending certain provisions of the Code of Economic Law. This draft is now before the Council of State for its opinion. We will hopefully receive that advice by the end of June 2015. The draft deletes the rules on the announcement of price reductions in order to be in conformity with European directives on unfair commercial practices towards consumers. The announcement of a price reduction should not constitute an unfair commercial practice. In other words, consumers must not be misled. A case-by-case investigation is carried out in this area. In order to clarify the framework, the Council for Consumption was asked for its opinion. The adoption of the opinion is scheduled for the meeting on 25 June 2015. Finally, I would like to point out that there is still a claim for strike in connection with the bailout period before the Brussels appeal court. The case was established on 22 September 2015. Mr Janssen, a number of elements will therefore certainly give you the opportunity to ask further questions, depending on the progress of the dossier.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic188x.u75	Thank you, Minister, for your already comprehensive answer. Your explanation makes matters a little more understandable to us. The fact that there is a draft before the Council of Stage for its opinion is certainly a boost. After all, it is not easy for a consumer to find out the correct rules in view of the contradiction between all kinds of case law and the practices of some shops which do advertise and sell in the period of notice.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic188x.u76	Mr President, Minister, within the framework of the Collective Debt Settlement Act, the Overindebtedness Treatment Fund is responsible for the fees and expenses of the debt mediators, in cases where the available financial means of the person in debt are lacking, i.e. in the event of a total remission of debts decided by the judge. These fees and fees are charged on a flat-rate basis by royal decree. The contribution to the Fund is calculated on the basis of a coefficient applied to the amount of payment arrears recorded by each lender at the Centrale des Credits aux Particuliers. In addition to the other three contributors, the IBPT for telephone operators, the FSMA for insurance companies and the gambling commission for gambling establishments were added. The Fund's annual revenue, although modest, is normally sufficient to cover the tasks assigned to it by the law: the regular payment of debt declarations introduced by debt mediators (these expenses are incompressible and verified by the judge) and the carrying out of campaigns to prevent over-indebtedness. However, the Government has imposed a payment ceiling on the Fund, which in practice prohibits it from paying claims from debt mediators introduced in 2015. These payments are therefore carried over to 2016, while this money is due to them as it is provided for by law. It is the Minister of Budget who does not give him that money. Minister, it seems to me that this is a mismanagement of the Fund. Will you remove this ceiling so that the Fund can make the payments as soon as possible so that people who have done work can be paid and so that prevention campaigns can be published? There were none. However, as you know, according to the figures of the National Bank, over-indebtedness is not decreasing but is increasing.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic188x.u77	Mr President, Mrs Lalieux, this is your last question for today, as I understand it. In the initial budget of 2015, the expenditure of the Over-indebtedness Treatment Fund had been set at EUR 4.1 million. During budgetary control, the government decided to increase this amount by €2.9 million to €7 million. The appropriation allocated during the budgetary control, including the increase in the ceiling for expenditure, is sufficient to keep the arrears at the same level as in 2014. The Minister of Budget announced a thorough analysis of the organic funds that will be conducted in the coming months to find a lasting solution.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic188x.u78	Minister, thank you. It is a good thing that 2.2 million have been added to the budget control. For a very long time, over-indebtedness policy has been exemplary in Belgium and this policy must be able to continue. I hope, Minister, that you will use all your energy to defend this and other over-indebtedness funds so that they can be properly financed. The budgetary technique means that the money does not go directly to the Fund, but the technique and spirit of the law mean that the money that enters this fund must participate in the policy against over-indebtedness and not in the state budget.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic188x.u79	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I had already asked a question on the subject, namely Question No 6, by Mr De Gucht, on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. 3266 of February 2015, which I had submitted to Minister Borsus. That question already dealt with the brewery contracts. In that question, I said that brewery contracts should not be strangled contracts, so that entrepreneurs could no longer exercise profitable entrepreneurship. However, Minister Borsus stated that no specific meeting with the operators in the catering sector on brewery contracts has been organised until then. However, all professional federations represented in the Supreme Council for the Self-employed and the Small and Medium-sized Enterprises were received. Consequently, the professional federation for the catering sector was also received. The purpose of that reception was to listen to their expectations. He also explained that it would not be unreasonable to think that the problem could be resolved before 2016. On Friday 5 June 2015, Horeca Flanders switched a bit higher. On 5 June 2015, Horeca Vlaanderen delivered you her collection of requirements, which I will not write down again. In summary, however, this is what we are talking about. The federation asks that the brewery contracts should be reduced to the essence, namely selling the brewery's beers. The entrepreneur must be free to buy at least one beer in barrel from another brewery. The minimum purchase obligation should be abolished. There should also be no mandatory contract with a beverage supplier. In order to achieve a healthy, economic environment, the government must intervene and restore the free market in the pub sector. About 60 to 70 % of the operators do not have the freedom to purchase what and how much they want. Usually there is such an agreement, because the brewery owns the property. In return for the investment and the establishment of the café, the brewery demands that the beer be taken from her, which is indeed understandable. However, many contracts indicate that a certain quantity of hectolitres must be taken. Fresh drinks, wine, coffee cookies, detergent and even toilet paper must be purchased from her or from friends at a fixed price Breweries make it appear that entrepreneurs often do the business of their lives if they start up such a business. Once they land on the ground, however, reality often turns out to be very different. On Saturday 6 June 2015, I read in the newspapers that you want to do something about the brewery contracts. That is why I am now putting my question to you and no longer to Ministers Borsus. First of all, did you receive the demand bundle? Was the bundle discussed among the relevant ministers? Secondly, is there a will to deal with excesses from brewery contracts? Thirdly, when are you planning a consultation with all the operators in the hospitality sector to discuss the brewery contracts? Fourthly, which items of the set of requirements do you consider to be a priority? Fifthly, do you agree with the answer given by Minister Borsus to my question of February 2014, namely that the problem could be resolved by the end of 2015?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic188x.u80	I have, of course, taken note of the requirements of Horeca Vlaanderen. You know that I want to pursue a policy of balance in the relationship between B to C and B to B. As a minister responsible for consumer affairs, I naturally aim at consumers versus businesses, but I also want to stand up for the smaller companies that are in a similar situation to the larger companies to consumers vis-à-vis companies. When the dissection of contracts indicates that there is an unreasonable balance in certain respects from the contractual provision, I want to look at that and I want something to be done about it. As in several cases, I try to do so in the first instance through consultation. The Catering Professional Association, the Federation of Belgian Brouwers and the Federation of Belgian Drink Traders have already been contacted. A consultation will take place on Tuesday 16 June. In any case, I will also have it examined now whether it can be useful, for example, France, for example, is not always an example, but perhaps in this case, in order to draw up rules that allow us to tackle abuse of economic dependence. If so, this goes beyond simply dealing with contracts between breweries and catering operators. In order to prevent you from asking any other questions about other very important sectors, I can already tell you that the economic dependence as it exists in France is wider than just the catering sector. There may also be strangulation contracts in sectors other than the catering industry. I'm becoming a major specialist in the strangulation contracts along the way, just like you. We are working hard to find out more about it. I also asked the Arbitration Committee to give me an opinion by September on clauses in brewery contracts which are apparently unbalanced. If there is to be a regulatory intervention, it does not seem unreasonable to me, as Mr Borsus has said, that this should be completed next year. I am a little more cautious, because you think my colleague was talking about the end of this year, or was it next year? In order to keep the ambitions realistic and not to be strangled by our sharp timing, we need to reach solutions through consultation in 2016. I hope that we can achieve results in this year and then finish next year.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic188x.u81	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Horeca Flanders had also already communicated that it was not necessary to put a date on the conclusions. Whether this is at the end of 2015 or in the course of 2016, it is not so important: the solution that comes out of the bus is more important than fixing itself on a date. We'll follow up on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic188x.u82	Minister, this is a question you yourself have suggested to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic188x.u83	That's smart of me, isn't it?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic188x.u84	It is therefore an intelligent question. You can put that feather on your hat. The question is about the consultation you had, or would have, with Sabam, about the tariffs Sabam wants to impose on website developers who include a public Youtube video. You'd have a meeting on that. What is the outcome of this consultation? Does Sabam reconsider her position and will she comply with the case law of the European Court of Justice? I refer to the Bestwater and Svensson judgments as did the Netherlands? Is the problem therefore of radar or does Sabam persist in its own interpretation and impose this rate? Does the FPS Economics, in particular the Intellectual Property Service, follow that reasoning and consider that rate compatible, or is it of a different opinion? Will the FPS initiate a warning procedure and, if necessary, bring an action for strike through the court? What was the result of your conversations?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic188x.u85	Mr Dedecker, I informed you last week that a first meeting took place in April. A second meeting took place yesterday in my cabinet. I was there myself. As you know, it was agreed at the first meeting in April to include a period of reflection. During that period, Sabam would no longer ask users to obtain prior permission for the embedded linking of those videos on their blog or website. Sabam told me yesterday that she will not put an end to this moratorium for the time being, but is still looking at the matter. Everything's still frozen. That is good in itself, because Sabam will not take any action. In view of the fact that Sabam will not for the time being appeal to any bloggers who offer an embedded link, there is currently no need to initiate that warning procedure. You said that you agreed to give all the opportunities for consultation during the moratorium period. I would have liked to take a further step today, but I also agree with Sabam, if she needs some more time and respects the moratorium, to give her that time. So I understand that you will ask a third question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic188x.u86	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic188x.u87	If there's a result, I'm sure I'd like to give it to you. The moratorium has been extended and there is further reflection, which in itself is always a good thing.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic188x.u88	Mr President, Minister, it is indeed a good thing that in the meantime there are no actions or subpoenas from ordinary people who put videos on their website. However, we must ensure that this does not drag on for too long. There is currently legal uncertainty and that is never a good thing. It is important that legal certainty is created in good time and that a decision is taken in one direction or another, preferably in the direction of no legal proceedings and no such tariffs, and in the direction of compatibility with European rules. That seems obvious to me. We can wait a little longer, but I would like to call on you not to drag that on too long.
