ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-commissie-ic227x.u1	Mr Minister, the notification of the budgetary control at the end of March said: "The payment of the late invoices of EUR 101 million prior to the date of 1/1/2015 will be charged to the year to which these expenditures relate after consultation by the FPS Budget with the INR. In the event of the above expenditure being charged on the current year, they will be charged totalling 101 million on the new interdepartmental commission of EUR 200 million; set up for non-structural expenditure linked to security as a priority. I have already questioned the Minister of Justice about this, but I still have a number of additional questions on the state of play of this dossier. Firstly, has the INR been consulted in the meantime? What was the outcome and has the INR approved the application for previous financial years, as envisaged? Secondly, a month ago, the Minister of Justice replied to an earlier question from me that the position of Eurostat and the European Commission will also be taken into account. Is that position known in the meantime? Thirdly, how does it or will it be possible to convince the INR and Eurostat that such problems will no longer occur in the future? What structural measures, after all, that is what we need to have, including at the level of commitments, have been taken by the Justice Department precisely in order to be able to organise proper accounting management, so that we are no longer faced with late invoices in this way? Are these measures sufficient for the budget, or should there be additional guarantees or measures? Fourthly, on 25 June the Council of Ministers approved the distribution of the security-related commission. In view of what I have just said, and in view of the above notification, is my question as to whether the EUR 101 million in invoices is part of this new commission, which means that it will be entered in the current year or whether the full fee of EUR 200 million in other security expenditure was granted following the approval by the INR that the outstanding invoices may still be charged in previous financial years?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-commissie-ic227x.u2	Ms Temmerman, in May last year, the National Bank of Belgium, representing the Institute of National Accounts, convened a meeting with representatives of the FPS Budget, the Budget Office, the FPS Justice and the Justice Department to clarify how the backdrop of the FPS Justice will be addressed. In order to assure Eurostat of the exceptional nature of this regularisation, the various parties have committed themselves to explain precisely why these invoices from the FPS Justice Department have recently surfaced to prove that this problem will no longer arise in the future. The government must thus commit itself to taking all necessary measures to register the determinations and liquidations in a reliable and verifiable system. This was provided for by the integration of the FPS Justice into the FedCom system from 1 January 2017. This will be a priority for the Minister of Justice and for myself. It is essential to correct the past at once, in order to avoid progressive inflation of the total invoice. In the light of these elements, the Institute of National Accounts should have sufficient arguments. These should allow INR to defend itself against Eurostat by resolving these arrears in accordance with the basic principles of ESA 2010, in order to count them on the current years in which these invoices were issued. I will keep you informed of this problem during September, because at that time the INR will have to provide Eurostat with its notification. Even though the negotiations are on the right track, the government wants to be cautious. Pending a final decision, the government has therefore decided not to grant the entire envelope of EUR 200 million of the Security commission. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-commissie-ic227x.u3	Minister, there are a number of things I am not clear about. If I understand correctly, there is no definitive reply from Eurostat and negotiations are still under way there. In your opinion, the structural solution consists of the integration of the budget and the settlement in Fedcom. What about the commitments? It is not because the invoices are placed in the budget and Fedcom that they are recorded. That's where the problem is. The commitment must be made before the payment can be made afterwards. I think that remains a problem. So I do not think it is really a structural solution. Finally, you have just said that the EUR 200 million commission is not currently being fully granted for security measures, especially because we do not know what will happen with the invoices from the Justice Department and the proposal made to Eurostat. Is that right?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-commissie-ic227x.u4	Everything goes in the right direction for the INR. Everything points out at the moment that we will find a solution in September, but everything has not yet been done. If there is a problem, the second solution is the other part of the envelope. In order to achieve our objectives, we have said that we must pay the invoices. We have to stop stacking up back stats, we have to pay. The INR provides 89 % to achieve this. If there is a problem, we draw from the commission. That's the government's solution.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-commissie-ic227x.u5	There is therefore no structural solution for the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-commissie-ic227x.u6	That is another problem, but it is getting better.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-commissie-ic227x.u7	Mr Minister, an announcement in the Bulletin of Procurement revealed that the National Lottery offers annual trips to its best sellers to sometimes very exotic destinations. According to the publication, the cost is 310 000 euros. This practice seems to have been in place since 2008 and a total of EUR 2.2 million would have already been spent on such journeys. In 2013, the National Lottery already paid 86 million euros in bonuses and commissions to the outlets. Moreover, the system strongly rewards the large sales outlets. Minister, do you have a problem with the practice of offering such journeys? Do you think that the money should be used for other purposes? Part of the proceeds of the National Lottery is used for socially valuable initiatives. Do you believe that such practices could lead to a larger sale of gambling products from the National Lottery? Could it be that the system has put sales pressure on traders to push them beyond ethical limits in the sale of gambling products, such as sales to minors, a problem that has already been identified in the past? Do you intend to ask the National Lottery to stop that practice?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-commissie-ic227x.u8	Mr Van Hecke, a discussion on the remuneration policy of the National Lottery is necessary. Even though I am convinced of the importance and legitimacy of the rewards awarded to the best outlets, I question the form that the benefits or rewards take. I would also like to point out that the outlets are privileged partners of the National Lottery. More than 90% of lottery products are sold in the retail sector. Moreover, it is necessary to consider an ethical charter with rules on benefits or rewards. I will take that with me to the discussions of the new management contract of the National Lottery. Even though I don't play with the lotto myself, I often meet newspaper dealers. I can confirm that their main priority is to earn their living and to make ends meet every month. You do not seem to have enough confidence in the points of sale if you assume that the incentives would exceed the limits of ethics in the sale of lottery products.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-commissie-ic227x.u9	Minister, I agree with you in part. I also believe that it is the main concern of the outlets that they can earn their living. However, it is a question of whether they receive a correct percentage, a correct remuneration for the sale of the products. That's different from the incentive to offer the best 100 or 130 sellers a luxury trip. That's something completely different. The sector is indeed asking for a proper remuneration to be liveable. However, we absolutely need to debate the issue of correct remuneration policies and the introduction of ethical rules. It has already been established that gambling products are often sold to minors. I'm not saying everyone does, but it happens. Last week, even in the press, the National Lottery banned certain customers from buying lottery products. The gambling problem arises not only with gambling products outside the National Lottery but also with products from the National Lottery itself. Let us take the problem seriously: there are tens of thousands of people who spend far too much money on it, on a list. I ask that a policy be conducted that is ethical, correct and well-considered, with, of course, proper remuneration for the outlets.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-commissie-ic227x.u10	Mr. Chair, Minister, we have read a note from the Planning Office, dated April 1, 2015, which draws attention to a number of elements and in particular to two specific points. First, with respect to the regional tax estimate, fiscal year 2015, excluding tax expenditures, there would be a difference of EUR 487 million between the estimates of the Planning Office and the estimates of the adjusted budget (see table on page 2 of the note). Furthermore, on page 3, it can be said that "the difference between the 2014 state tax estimate and the business discount suggests that at least 1.8 billion tax expenditures would not be pre-counted. This is a minimum since advance payments are likely to be less than the tax owing and tax at the separate rate is not pre-counted. This comparison raises questions but does not allow conclusions to be drawn." Clearly, the Plan Office warned the government that there was at least one problem in your calculations. This note was dated April 1, and at that time you had full latitude to review your adjustment. Why did you leave that note dead? Is it not completely irresponsible to present in an adjustment figures that are not on the road while the Plan Office is drawing your attention? Why didn't you bother to inform Parliament? We can add to that the communication from the FPS Finances dated 29 June, which attests to the 600 million difference in favour of the Regions. Why did you allow Parliament to vote on your budget adjustment when you had certain elements that could provide a basis for certainty as to its false nature?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-commissie-ic227x.u11	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Laaouej, first of all, I would like to be as well informed as you are because it seems that you are better off than the federal public services themselves. You are talking about a note of 1 April when I learned that this note existed when I read your question. This note has never been forwarded to my services, and I am not thinking of public services. I don't know because I don't know. In any case, I speak at ministerial level. It appears to be an internal and confidential note to the Federal Planning Office. You may have information that I do not have, but in any case I am formal and categorical on this point! As you are not aware of it during the vote on the budgetary adjustment in the sitting on 1 July, let alone in April, you will understand that I can question myself. You were right to ask the question. But I want to answer you clearly and categorically. The information from the Federal Office of the Plan which we had before us was communicated on 20 April, 20 days later than the tabling of the supposed note, to the Budget and Public Service Committee of the Walloon Parliament by the Commissioner for the Plan, Mr. Philippe Donnay. This information has been sufficiently discussed in the weeks and months that have passed. Minister Lacroix responsible for the Budget in the Walloon Region must have had to read the report of the Planning Office also on 20 April. Everyone has the opportunity to learn about the proceedings of the commission that took place at the time. In his statement, Mr. Donnay referred to the calculation of the Regional PPI advances by the Planning Office, which, at the end of March, estimated that, taking into account the new macroeconomic parameters, those advances amounting to approximately EUR 532 million, contrary to the FPS Finance estimates for which, at the time, there was a question of EUR 750 million, were perhaps to be taken into account. All this was going on in Namur. The Commissioner of the Plan also indicated that the estimate in the original budget was overestimated. In addition, he drew attention to the fact that the Federal Office of the Plan was in mid-April reviewing the estimate of advances to the regional PPI as part of the preparation of medium-term projections. Mr. Donnay indicated that, although these new estimates are in progress, they will be quite close to those contained in the adjusted federal budget. The maximum difference envisaged after this potential rating was approximately EUR 150 million. As regards the calculation of State tax, you were present in committee, Mr Laaouej, at the presentation of the Court of Auditors. It must be noted that the Court of Auditors has not delivered an unfavorable opinion on the calculation carried out by the FPS Finance Research Service. Moreover, the methodology used by the Court of Auditors in calculating the State tax resulted – you will remember – in a "minimum" difference of €72 million compared to the figures of the Finance FPS. The government is well aware that this is an estimate every time. In order to clarify the calculation methodology used and the costing, and in the interests of transparency, the Minister of Finance requested an in-depth analysis. This in-depth analysis has improved the system currently used by FPS Finance. May I remind you that the final figures for regional additions will be available in October 2016. So you propose to me, because you can always write the story with notes of which you may not know, freeze all the spending of the state, not invest in security, not eliminate the backlog of justice by leaving many self-employed workers on the tile, waiting for the final figures of October 2016 and saying: "We block everything. We wait and see what's going on!" The government takes its responsibilities by taking a voluntary step, guided by our esteem for the future and its challenges.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-commissie-ic227x.u12	Mr Minister, I heard you answer a question from the journalists on Bel RTL in the morning, saying that you had been aware of the correction of the Finance FPS, which went from 750 million to 157 million as to the negative difference that should be paid to the Regions as regional supplements, through the press release of the Minister of Finance. There is clearly a problem of communication between the Minister of Finance, the tax administration, and the services of the Minister of Budget, on the one hand. It is not acceptable for the Minister of Budget to learn about the correction of the FPS Finance, which admits his error by means of a press release. That this note from the Plan Bureau, which may be an internal note, has not been brought to the attention of the Minister of Budget, also raises a question. The Planning Office is one of our institutions that regularly makes budget estimates and, very often, macroeconomic estimates. Therefore, the Plan Office is one of the tools available to us to have a possible methodology checked, for example the tax administration. There is also the Court of Auditors and the National Bank. Moreover, for the reform of the special financing law, both the National Bank and the Plan Office were asked to set up an estimation model. It's a disturbing element. The macroeconomic estimates of the Court of Auditors invalidated the figures of the Monitoring Committee. The government could have said that, since the Court of Auditors arrived at roughly the same figures as those of the tax administration, it was necessary to review the estimate of tax revenues for the federal government itself and therefore for the federal budget and not only for the regional budgets. Minister, I do not want to give lessons, but the facts speak for themselves and we find ourselves with an adjusted budget that has been voted on erroneously. There is certainly a need to review the upstream method of work! The Prime Minister says we used the numbers, but we didn't validate them. When a budget is submitted to the vote of Parliament, Parliament is asked to validate the figures! That is the scope of a vote! The Minister of Budget is not responsible for the problem. He does with what he has and what we give him. There is a lack of methodology at the highest level of government management. I hope that's all it is. I hope it's not something else. I do not want to make a trial of intent, but at this stage it is an amateurism that must be deplored. I repeat, I do not blame the Minister of Budget, who is a member of the team like the others. It has its share of responsibility but it is at the overall level of management of the government team that there is a real problem. The Minister of Budget learned in a press release the correction of the FPS Finances. So he didn't even come to the idea of Mr. Van Overtveldt to call Mr Jamar to tell him there was a problem with the numbers!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-commissie-ic227x.u13	Mr. Chair, Minister of Budget, I wanted to ask the Prime Minister about the report of the monitoring committee. You're the one who's gonna answer. I hope you will have the answers, because when I hear you, I have the impression that you take a lot of notice but you don't do much. When I introduced my question, I asked when the report of the monitoring committee would arrive. We have received it in the meantime and have been able to learn about it. It is quite catastrophic compared to the budget projections. It almost completely invalidates the recently voted adjustment, of which we said our scepticism as to its quality and credibility. We have talked about the 600 million revenue that will ultimately have to be returned to the Regions under the special financing law. The nuclear rent is decreasing; we asked you about it, but you didn't have an answer at the time. VAT revenues are falling sharply either as a result of the slowdown in the economy or due to fraud. In addition, $1.3 billion is lost in swap operations. In total, the Monitoring Committee estimates the overall effort to be made at EUR 1,760 billion, including EUR 978 million to maintain the commitments for 2015. In the face of this, I think we can't just say, as you said on the radio, "We'll see, we'll cut spending a little bit further." We have to act. Minister, what are your main conclusions? As a result of this report, what corrective measures are planned by the government, including revenue and investment? Will there be a third budgetary adjustment? How long? What is the impact of this bad news on the tax shift project, which is prominent in the government agreement? I read with great concern that some components of government, as a result of poor fiscal results, would like to abandon the tax shift, whereas if it is well designed, it can be a response to the issues of how our economy works. I hope you have a mandate to answer us on the subject in a precise and proactive manner.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-commissie-ic227x.u14	Mr President, Mr Minister, I have said this from the beginning: your budget, both initial and adjusted, unfortunately does not stand the way. For six months, you or more precisely the government claimed the opposite. It would be unfair to have you bear responsibility on your own. You are caught up in the facts and at the foot of the wall, with figures that ultimately turn out to be quite disastrous. The press is talking about "budget slip." We drew your attention to the problem, in particular the tax revenue component, which is certainly too much evaluated, sometimes pre-emptive, but also non-tax revenue. I am not going back to the 750 million euro problem. We've already talked about it. But I would like to go back to the report of the monitoring committee. For 2015, 978 million euros would be missing. It's a huge amount of money. We're not far from the billion. Mr. Minister, do you confirm these figures? Is this an optimistic scenario? Is there an even more pessimistic scenario? How do you explain such a slip? I have heard you say that the impact of the reduction of the EUR 750 million in regional additional payments, which are reduced to EUR 157 million in less transfers for the Regions, would only take place in the amount of EUR 18 million on the federal state budget. But if I remember what was said in the debates, you used part of that EUR 175 million bounty to set up a reserve. Should we therefore understand that you will have to remove this reservation? In addition, how do you achieve this amount of €18 million of impact only for the federal government on the correction made by the tax administration, with regard to the transition from €750 million to €157 million? For 2016, 782 million euros would be missing. Again, we can read that this is an optimistic scenario. What's your analysis? However, some voices in the government were waiting to postpone discussions on the tax shift, the broad lines of which were expected and announced by the Prime Minister before July 21, 2015. Do you confirm that tax shift reform is postponed sine die, i.e. until further notice?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-commissie-ic227x.u15	Mr President, Minister, as my colleague Mr Laaouej has just said, the report by the Monitoring Committee shows that the government will still have to make a serious saving, not least by miscalculation. We discussed this in the previous part-session. As Mr Laaouej said, all this could have been foreseen, because it was already known in March and April that there was a problem. They just didn't know how big this problem was. I insist that you lied to Parliament for that. The Monitoring Committee's report shows, among other things, that there are quite a few disappointing tax revenues in VAT worth some EUR 500 million. We have read in the press in recent days that the government refers to the lower VAT rate on electricity. This would explain those lower VAT receipts. I am very surprised by this statement. After all, I do not read anything about this in the report. Moreover, this could have been calculated in advance. I read in the report, among other things, that the difference can be explained mainly by realizations. This would mainly involve an increase in refunds. Mr Minister, I come to my questions. What are the precise explanations for these returns? What exactly is it about? The government says it's about VAT rates on electricity. I can't find any of that in the report. In addition, the report of the Monitoring Committee contains something completely different. Can you shed some light on that? I would like to clarify once and for all the question since when this reduction in VAT revenue is recorded. Since when is one aware of this? I would like to hear from you why certain government members explain the decline in VAT revenue due to a reduction in the VAT rate on electricity. Moreover, it was stated in De Tijd, I quote: 'In government circles, there is no rule that there has been abuse.' Minister, can you tell me what this is about? What kind of abuse are we talking about? What's the government's clues to that? I am very curious to hear the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-commissie-ic227x.u16	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the main conclusion to be drawn from the report of the Monitoring Committee is that the funding balance for entity 1, therefore the federal, for 2015 is estimated at - €9.379 billion, a decrease of 1.284 billion compared to budgetary control. Most of this deterioration is due to a more negative estimate of tax revenues, we have just mentioned, and to larger transfers to the Regions due to the recalculation of the regional PPI. The balance of funding for 2016 is estimated at - €8.352 billion. With no policy change, the balance shows an estimated improvement of $1,027 billion over 2015. Comparing these estimates to the standard set in the 2015-2018 stability programme, a structural improvement ranging from 0.62% in 2015 to 0.6% in 2016, the effort to be made would be – hence the figures that Mr.Laaouej asks me to confirm – to 978 million euros in 2015 and to 1,760 billion cumulated over the two years. This will represent an additional effort of 782 million in 2016. The objective is to maintain entity 1 in its trajectory as set out in the stability programme for the improvement of the structural balance. Let us never forget that regardless of everything else, we also have to compose, and I hope as harmoniously as possible, with entity 2 to achieve the 2018 trajectory by respecting the parameters we set ourselves. With regard to revenue and expenditure developments 2015, tax revenues in dry terms are reduced by EUR 723 million. In the 2015 budgetary control they amounted to EUR 107,989 billion and are now estimated at EUR 107,267 billion. The decrease is mainly for VAT receipts. Their estimate is reduced by €506 million and now stands at €30.170 billion. The monitoring committee's report explains this decrease in yield by the fact that real dry revenues between February and May of this year were lower than expected due to the increase in VAT refunds. I took note of the estimate of those reductions when the Monitoring Committee delivered its report. As soon as the report was published, the Minister of Finance instructed his administration to investigate the cause of the reduction in VAT revenue for 2015. The initial results of that investigation show that the increase in VAT refunds is due to the reduction of the VAT rate on electricity. The tariff reduction not only caused a reduction in gross revenue but, above all, an increase in appropriations. The BBI was asked to consider whether the fraud mechanisms could be updated. Today there is no major tax fraud involving VAT carousels. I leave it to my colleague Van Overtveldt to explain this to you. Secondly, the estimated tax transfers are 439 million euros higher. Transfers were re-estimated at EUR 54,780 billion compared to EUR 51,692 billion during the 2015 control. The increase is mainly due to the re-estimate of the State tax by the FPS Finances, which results in an estimate of the higher regional PPI of 593 million, thus amounting to 8,855 billion euros. There is also a decrease of EUR 229 million in transfers to social security. This is mainly the alternative financing of the Sixth State Reform. Tax resources, i.e. tax revenues after deduction of tax transfers, decrease by 1.162 billion compared to the 2015 budgetary control, from 53.647 billion to 52.485 billion euros. On the other hand, non-tax resources show a slight increase of €65 million from €4.367 billion to €4.433 billion. Total revenue thus rose from EUR 58.014 billion to EUR 56.918 billion, a decrease of EUR 1.096 billion. As far as primary expenditure is concerned, since, a priori, I am mainly concerned with primary expenditure, they are experiencing a small improvement of 39 million euros in 2015 compared to the budgetary control of 2015. They were estimated at the time at EUR 52,180 billion and are currently estimated at EUR 52,141 billion. As regards interest charges, in 2015 they increased from EUR 10,692 billion during the 2015 budgetary control to EUR 10,728 billion, an increase of EUR 36 million. Within social security, the balance of claims is deteriorating by EUR 21 million compared to the 2015 budgetary control. The social security balance is now estimated at -591 million euros, compared to -500 million euros in the 2015 budgetary control. As far as expenditure is concerned, the performance in budgetary control from €69.93 billion will increase from 2015 to €70.19 billion according to the current estimate. The estimates shall always take into account all measures decided by the Government in the Conclaves of October 2014 and March 2015. The Monitoring Committee itself states that it is not easy to isolate the impact of the measures and to give a fully coherent picture of the impact of the measures effectively incorporated in the figures. By way of example, the law of 23 April 2015 on improving employment can be cited as including the index jump. The impact of this has been taken into account in the estimates of the economic budget of the Federal Planning Office. Through the relevant parameters, this impact is reflected in the basic figures for revenue and expenditure. Based on the standards and estimates used, Entity I would require an additional effort of EUR 978 million in 2015 to stay on the path set out in the Stability Programme. There is no optimistic or pessimistic scenario, since the question was asked like that by Mr Laaouej. The monitoring committee gathers the estimates made by all the institutions concerned, based inter alia on the parameters of the economic budget of the Federal Office of the Plan of 11 June 2015. The government will look closely at the priorities. Each euro will be reversed more than twice before being issued. It is the government's job to find out what the appropriate way to achieve the objectives will be. The ambition of this government is great and heavy. The government has chosen to bring the enormous debts back on a downward path. It wants to turn the annual budget deficit towards balance by the end of this legislature. This objective is imposed on itself in order to guarantee the country's viability vis-à-vis present and future generations. To answer Mr Laaouej's question on the recalculation of State tax, I once again confirm that the impact of the reduction from 750 million euros to 157 million euros is indeed only 18 million euros on the federal budget. The government had taken into account only the 375 of the 750 million estimated in the last budget control, in the interests of caution, and I attended all these meetings. In addition, the net impact of the 200 million buffer (mattress) that had been released in connection with the government's structural balance target in the fiscal adjustment to deal with potential budgetary problems is taken into account. The 200 million buffer is in no way linked to the security provision. The government is currently working on a second shift tax to make taxation more transparent, fairer, fairer. With regard to timing, the government is committed to developing a credible budget. That's our priority. The government is also committed to finding an agreement on a well-reasoned shift tax that supports the economy in the medium term, and thus, job creation, the purchasing power of citizens. The two, budget and tax shift, are obviously closely linked. Under the tax rules, for example, the PPI rules can only be applied for revenue of 1 January 2016 if a point has been voted and published before 31 December 2015 due to the annuality of the budget, as regards direct taxation. In terms of indirect taxation, it may be otherwise, and we are well aware of that. This is the subject of the current discussions and we haven't gone on vacation yet, believe me.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-commissie-ic227x.u17	Mr. Chair, Minister of Budget, this report from the monitoring committee is more than an alarm signal. This is a finding that the government's fiscal policy is failing and failing. This confirms what we have said in the discussions on budgetary adjustment. I am surprised and regret your placid description of the situation. You give a few figures and some explanations about the report of the monitoring committee. You give us a few banalities about the government's goal of reaching balance, of making a tax shift as soon as it finds the time. This is not up to the budget stakes. That's how I read your words. The tax shift was announced for July 21. Obviously, this will not be the case and it will take place when the government decides. It takes a little more voluntarism, direction and vision to get out of this situation. As Minister of Budget, you don't have to be the notary of the bad news that follows. I do not feel in your head a leadership and a direction that can lead the Belgian State towards a more rewarding budget geared to balance and facilitating the resumption of economic activity, enabling investment and preserving redistribution policies. Anyway, I'm not reassured.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-commissie-ic227x.u18	Mr. Chair, this report from the monitoring committee is the return of the stick. The government is paying its foresight and its little political blow before the Easter holidays where the fiscal adjustment was completed in a few days without carrying out the basic checks that should have presided over this exercise. In budgetary matters, this little game, you always pay for it. The responsibility of the Minister of Budget is not in question alone. This is the responsibility of the government as a whole. The Minister of Finance is the one who is best placed to conduct a thorough audit of the tax revenue figures, but also the Prime Minister who came to the press conference to explain that there should be no ambiguity and that there was perfect clarity. Nothing is more obscure today than the government's budget work! It's a real problem. I am obviously not convinced that the Budget Minister has just told us that, for the tax administration, the famous 750 million regional additions to be transferred less to the Regions are increasing to 157 million and that the impact on the federal budget will be only 18 million. I apologize, but that is not credible in the light of what could be read in the general statement of the budgetary adjustment. I therefore reserve my reaction to the examination of the figures to be given to us in this second budgetary adjustment which we may have at the beginning of the year. Mr. Minister of the Budget, yes, it is true that tax revenues are, first of all, Mr. Van Overtveldt, but you're the Budget Minister. This is not just about primary expenditure. You must also ensure that the figures you are given at the level of revenue are good figures and that tax revenues are entered into the State funds. You have a co-responsibility. We've done it many times. I am not the only one, but when it comes to lower VAT revenues, I draw your attention to the fact that the reforms of the Central Office for Combating Organised Economic and Financial Crime (OECDO), and in particular its decentralization, could have a significant impact on the level of VAT tax revenues. Indeed, it is the body that today specializes in the prevention and control of VAT carousels. And there, you have a role in the government to prevent this decentralization from taking place and there is a loss of efficiency because today OECDFO, through its integration, is an effective strike force against VAT carousels. We are even sending Belgian experts to train civil servants abroad. The last element concerns the tax shift. We will see the tax reform. You will have to find additional resources unless you do so in a neutral context, but I wish you luck. Perhaps it would have been wiser, rather than taking a number of so-called structural measures such as the 67-year-old pension or the index jump, immediately to this important project which could have been an element of economic recovery along with an element of better tax justice. Today, you have an additional budget straitjacket that makes your task difficult. I wish you courage. In any case, we will be vigilant with regard to the texts and figures that you will be submitting at the beginning of the year.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-commissie-ic227x.u19	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your reply. The words that we heard after the check just before the Easter holiday, commissioned by the Commission, now, of course, taste a bit bitter when we notice that the assignment is not completed at all. We will probably have that discussion in the coming days and months. In any case, I am pleased that you say very clearly that the reduction of VAT revenue has nothing to do with the reduction of VAT on electricity in itself. I am also glad that we did not make the wrong calculations at the time. That's what the papers said. I personally do not understand it very well, but apparently this is due to VAT carousels. However, since it concerns the reduction of VAT on electricity for families, it is not clear to me how VAT carousels can play in this. Then I find it really vengeful that it's just that government that's gonna shut down the cell that's gonna have to figure out and take out these VAT carousels. On the contrary, if we now have such a shortage of VAT revenue, we should tackle these fraudulent practices hard. We fully support this and we support you in this regard. But that's exactly what the government isn't gonna do because the cell's gonna be shut down. It will be spread over other cells, so to speak, but the reality is that the cell is being shut down, Minister. You'll have to think about that again. It costs you money. We have warned you of this on several occasions. Now it appears to be the same, as we can understand from your answer. Yet one perseveres in anger and that cell will be shut down. For me, it's a mystery to me how you make both things rhyme with each other.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-commissie-ic227x.u20	I would like to clarify the issue of electricity and VAT. This is a measure taken under the previous government, on the initiative of Mr Vande Lanotte.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-commissie-ic227x.u21	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-commissie-ic227x.u22	This measure actually took effect on April 1, 2014. I give these technical elements, otherwise we'll tell everything and anything! The effect of this measure was to postpone the possible indexation. There is a time lag in terms of VAT recovery. I said that there was a priori no carousel, no VAT fraud, etc. The investigation will be conducted, let us not immediately fall into dramatization. The time for the consumer, the transporter and the energy distributor to lay down the recovery of VAT, there is a delay. The current effect of the five hundred and a few million less VAT revenues, which is to collect VAT in addition by the people who ask for it, has recently been felt in temporary lag. This is one of the explanations given. I am not the Minister of Finance but, as Mr Laaouej says, I am still a bit the guarantor of what the shop is doing more or less well. The Special Tax Inspectorate (SI) is in charge of an investigation, as I said in my reply. Besides, no one saw that number coming. In recent reports, even the country's best-known bodies have not mentioned this. Now we find ourselves with five hundred and a few million less VAT revenue. We must not immediately talk about VAT carousel. This may be the case and, if proven, the sanction will be immediate. We can talk about the Central Office for Combating Organised Economic and Financial Crime (OECDFO), Mr Laaouej, for the future, and not for the past. Regardless of the measure, whether it is justified or not, I give you the answers as to the time lag and the possible fraud. It's not mega-fraud, but it's fraud though if some meters go from professional to private, in terms of recovery. I'm not an investigator. I'll stop there. I am not Minister of Finance, I am not Director of ISI, I am not at OECDFO. In any case, that's what's under analysis at the moment and we'll see about it later.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-commissie-ic227x.u23	Mrs. Temmerman, this is not a debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-commissie-ic227x.u24	No, but I do have the last word. I just want to stress that the Minister confirms that it has nothing to do with the measure in itself. The Minister also confirms that the calculations that have been made for this are correct and that it now appears that a number of things have gone wrong. Maybe we should check these cases. That is why it is a good thing that we have a service to do that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-commissie-ic227x.u25	That's your interpretation and your analysis, Mrs. Temmerman. That's your interpretation. The minister replied. You will find his answer in the annals and draw your own conclusions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-commissie-ic227x.u26	Mr van de Velde, the Minister should leave and I would ask you to put your question in telegram style if possible. The same applies to Mr Dedecker, who will put the following question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-commissie-ic227x.u27	Mr President, Minister, I will put my question in telegram style. Article 85 of the State Compatibility Act provides that an inventory of the assets of the State is to be made every 10 years. If I have been properly informed, the latest inventory was made in 1999. If that's true, we're well over time. So it's time for a new inventory. During the period 2000 to 2006, an important shift of the patrimony took place, which, under the impulse of sales and leaseback operations, took a different turn than before 1999. Furthermore, the current government agreement takes an important step towards the management of the heritage, with a more important role for the FPIM. For me, therefore, there are a number of important data that make it not bad to re-invent and, secondly, to evaluate the policies that have been pursued. What do sales and leaseback operations mean today for our investment policy and our current spending policy? Is the government supporting a new inventory?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-commissie-ic227x.u28	Mr President, Article 85 comes out of the coordination decision on the State Compatibility Law of 17 July 1991 and paraphrases Article 72 of the Law of 28 June 1963 amending the State Compatibility Laws. Article 85 dates back to a period in which Belgium was still a unitary state, where state compatibility was still centralized. In the current federal state structure and the subsequent administrative and accounting organisation, the application of this Article has become impossible. The article was therefore removed by the accounting laws of both 16 May 2003, which introduced the effective accounting and budgetary autonomy of the Communities and the Regions, and 22 May 2003, which introduced a modernised basic accounting system for the federal government. Both laws contain common rules to allow the consolidation of data as well as the obligation to keep an inventory. This removed the legal basis for the Commission's work on the inventory of the State's assets. The Consultative Commission for the Minister for Finance, referred to in paragraph 2 of Article 85, only pending the roll-out of the new accounting system continued to carry out its task for the time being at the federal level. In the light of this brief statement, I can therefore reply to the honourable Member as follows. First, in 1999, CIVS drew up the last full balance sheet of the Belgian State, including the Communities, Regions and local authorities, according to the old system of state compatibility. However, the figures included in the asset account were based on an inventory drawn up by the CIVS, in cooperation with the members of the then Commission for the Standardisation of Public Computability. It is true, however, that the CIVS kept more or less permanent inventories from the point of view of certain assets as a result of the increased possibilities for data processing. It concerned the real estate and partial movable inventory for the federal government institutions, as well as an immovable physical inventory for the Communities and Regions. Second, the CIVS communicated the heritage changes in the real estate and movable inventories of the federal administrations for the period 2000-2006 to the Treasury Administration of the FPS Finance. These were then included in the then account of the capital changes of the federal government. The data relating to the real estate inventories of the Communities and the Regions could be requested by the latter from the administration of the Patrimonium Documentation of the FPS Finance. Since the CIVS was a purely federal committee without regional representation, and therefore had no competence vis-à-vis the Länder, its work was limited to drawing up the physical inventory with indicative value, obtained on the basis of its estimation methodology. Thirdly, a centralised inventory for all public authorities, referred to in Article 85, is by definition no longer provided for in the current rules on national compatibility. The Act of 16 May 2003 defines in Article 7 the inventory obligation for the Communities and the Regions. From its entry into force, they are therefore responsible for the inventory of their rich heritage and the detection of any changes to it. Article 16 of the Law of 22 May 2003 introduces the same obligation for each federal government. Article 136, in conjunction with Articles 133 and 134 of the same law, defines the transitional period available to the various federal administrations in order to arrive at a complete inventory of their fixed assets. By January 2021 at the latest, the federal government should have a complete inventory of all its services. The federal accountant of the FPS Budget and Control supervises the services during this transition period and will be responsible for the consolidation of the data.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-commissie-ic227x.u29	Minister, I will be very brief. If I get the answer, I'll come back to this matter next time.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-commissie-ic227x.u30	Minister, the addictive nature of the scratch cards has recently been demonstrated again by the poignant case of an 81-year-old lady who has driven large fortunes for it. The Association of Alcohol and other Drug Problems, like other gambling experts, underlines that the addictive character is quite large, as one immediately gets results and as one is immediately encouraged to re-use to compensate for the loss or to re-use the profit, unlike the Lotto, which is about a few days. I have always said that the National Lottery is pursuing too aggressive a marketing policy in this area and is focusing too much on sales. Its task of sensitizing and channeling is not sufficiently fulfilled. Too much is being devoted to expanding the market. That's a big problem. However, the National Lottery has a very extensive network of outlets, which are close to the citizen and which could be ideal for sensitizing and detecting problematic game behavior. Minister, there are great financial incentives to increase sales. They even offer luxury trips to the best sellers. Mr Van Hecke questioned you about this today. To what extent are there incentives for sellers to detect, channel and assist problematic game behavior? That aspect will come into the training process. But what stimuli are there and are these stimuli actually larger than the commercial stimuli, aimed at sales?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-commissie-ic227x.u31	Mr President, my answer is in the two languages, because Mr Devin had also tabled a question on this subject. Each game of the National Lottery is developed in accordance with European standards for responsible play and all parameters that present a risk of insurance are checked and submitted to an opinion of the Responsible Game Committee composed, among others, of psychologists and psychiatrists external to the National Lottery. In addition, strict standards for the sale of the products of the National Lottery are applied. The National Lottery informs me that to date I am the only operator in Belgium – it will be necessary to rest the question to be sure – to maintain financial limits for its products sold online. In addition, she is ready to think with the government in order to better frame players' stakes at points of sale. Currently, this is not yet on the agenda, but the issue is likely to be addressed in the margins of discussions on the new management contract. Many lottery issues will be raised with this new management contract. This will be an opportunity for parliamentarians to ask all the legitimate questions they want; these questions will be welcome. This will give us ideas, as I said a few months ago in committee, to achieve the best possible result, especially from an ethical point of view, as I suggested earlier. Your suggestion, Mr Dedecker, to provide financial incentives to avoid problematic game behaviour seems worth considering. You should know that the National Lottery already grants its outlets a financial incentive today when the campaigns for responsible play, the visibility of warning posters, age control and participation in training sessions are strictly and correctly respected. Recently, much has been said in the press about the National Lottery. This is an opportunity for us to compile all of this and to examine how we can improve it as much as possible, without either letting the competition enjoy all the advantages and seeing the National Lottery die gradually.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-commissie-ic227x.u32	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your reply. In my view, financial incentives should go beyond just putting up a poster and participating in training. The most important thing is that what is taught in this training on the detection of problematic game behaviour is also used in practice. I believe that this will require the necessary incentives. You referred to the debate on the management contract. I thank you for your initiative to allow the debate to take place in this House before the management contract was concluded. That is a very good thing. I remember the debate with Jannie Haek about the sentence in the management contract that the National Lottery should not attract new players, so we should not increase the market. Mr Haek had a very different view. The intention must remain that the National Lottery should channel and not so much increase the market. That must be the priority. You refer to the rules on responsible play. The limits are indeed there online, but the question remains how to convert them in practice in the physical sale of scratch cards. There's still work to be done there. Thank you for taking into account my suggestion for stimuli for detecting problematic game behavior. We have to deal with that seriously. That is an important task for the National Lottery.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-commissie-ic227x.u33	Ladies and gentlemen, I hope that this committee will not be convened before the summer recess. However, if the government makes huge decisions, it will be different. Mr Laaouej, you have the floor on the order of business.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-commissie-ic227x.u34	Mr President, I have introduced a third question which has not been taken up on the agenda. I was told that the minister considered that it should be addressed to the Minister of Finance. While we are talking about growth and inflation parameters, regional additions, the Monitoring Committee, I do not understand why my question has not been placed on the order of business. We will no longer see the Minister of Finance. My question is postponed until the beginning of the year and will probably have lost its relevance. I don't admit that way.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-commissie-ic227x.u35	Mr Laaouej, the government decides who answers the question. This issue was referred to Minister Van Overtveldt.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-commissie-ic227x.u36	Mr President, it was addressed to Mr Jamar. This is a budgetary issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-commissie-ic227x.u37	That is the procedure, and as chairman, I am the directive of the Rules of Procedure. The Minister of Budget may transfer the matter to the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-commissie-ic227x.u38	Mr President, you still have a minimum of assessment as to whether the referral of the question is justified. This is a budgetary issue and it is not acceptable.
