ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic189x.u1	Madam President, Minister, the dispatch of the 42 first aid workers from B-FAST to Nepal reflected the speed of action and international solidarity of our country in response to the request from the Nepalese authorities. My group welcomed this decision in which Defence played an important role. The hasty return of this mission is certainly the result of the vagaries of such intervention and the lack of coordination of the international community. This is particularly evident at European level where very little coordination exists between Member States. Other teams of foreign relief workers have also experienced the same disappointment. Minister, how do you assess National Defence's participation in Operation B-FAST in Nepal? What lessons do you think the government and your department can learn from this mission to improve the functioning of emergency assistance in the future? Could EU-FAST-type coordination at European level be organised in a structural and permanent way on the Belgian multidisciplinary (civil and military) model? Is there coordination of emergency assistance in the event of disasters, both logistically and humanly, between European armies? Do you intend to take initiatives towards your European counterparts in this direction in order to improve coordination and synergies?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic189x.u2	Madam President, Mr Pirlot, thank you for your question. First of all, I would like to clarify that my assessment relates only to Defence participation in the B-FAST mission. This is not an assessment of the Mission as a whole. Defence participation in the B-FAST interdepartmental mission in Nepal is assessed as positive. The Defence was able to provide B-FAST within a very short period of time a Airbus aircraft with its crew and medical refuelling in order to be able to take off less than 24 hours after the decision. In addition, Defence has engaged personnel for coordination and communication functions and therefore believes that it has fulfilled its commitment to this mission. The deployment of emergency humanitarian assistance such as B-FAST must be the subject of international coordination. In this context, the United Nations has a coordinating role but does not prohibit the arrival of international aid, even if it is excessive. Europe, via DG ECHO and its Emergency Response Coordination Centre (ERCC), is currently developing a concept of EU voluntary pool. It aims to provide the European Union with national capacity within a very short period of time. The Union also organises the sharing of the transport of international aid teams by covering part of the transport costs. The return of Nepal from B-FAST was organized within an international framework. At the military level, NATO can intervene for the benefit of the UN to fill gaps, as was the case during the earthquake in Pakistan with the establishment of an air bridge by NATO. For further information on B-FAST, I refer you to my Foreign Affairs colleague who is in charge of piloting the B-FAST missions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic189x.u3	Madam Chair, Minister, thank you for your answer. My question was about the Defence component, not the operation as a whole. Do you intend to take any initiative to try to improve synergy at European level? In other words, does Belgian National Defence intend or not to take action in this direction?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic189x.u4	Generally speaking, there are cooperations at European level. For my part, I believe that this position must be followed. As far as international aid coordination is concerned, it is my colleague Didier Reynders who is competent.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic189x.u5	Madam President, Minister, on Sunday, 10 May, five defence ministers of the European Union discussed common defence and migrants as well as ways of countering human trafficking in the Mediterranean. The French, German, Polish, Italian and Spanish officials met in Lorient and thus anticipated the Council of European Defence Ministers on 18 May. I would therefore like to ask you, Minister, the following questions. Beyond the questions raised by the Mediterranean dossier, what position did you hold on common defence at the last EU Defence Council? What do you think of the statements made by the President of the European Commission, who, in particular, regretted that Europeans were acting in dispersed order for the acquisition of military equipment? What are your initiatives/commitments to advance this "Defence Europe" in terms of decision-making structures, personnel and investments, particularly in view of the June European Summit? Finally, it would appear that France and Germany will jointly carry out a military observation satellite. Together with Italy, they should also launch studies for a European drone this year. How do you stand up to these European initiatives? How has the MUSIS/CSO program evolved? What is the status of Belgian participation in the MUSIS/CSO programme? How does the European and Alliance positions and initiatives evolve to produce so-called "MINT" (Imagery Intelligence) information?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic189x.u6	Mr Pirlot, the European Commission and High Representative Mogherini presented their respective reports for the June 2015 Council. Both documents provide a good vision of the areas in which progress has been made since December 2013. Above all, they identify the steps that should lead to the development of new security and defence perspectives. These will then have to be translated into concrete measures. The approval by the Minister of Defence of the Policy Framework for Systematic and Long-Term Defence Cooperation last November is an excellent result in this regard in the run-up to the June 2015 summit. In the field of Earth observation from space, Defence is engaged in a European initiative, under the aegis of France, with the programme of the two satellites Helios 2. The operation, funding and operation of this programme have been largely detailed in the answer to Parliamentary Question No 2174 of 10 February by your colleague Dallemagne. Following this same response, Defence has shown its interest in continuing this cooperation with the CSO programme, the Optical Space Component, together with BELSPO, the Belgian Science Policy Office, for the industrial component. This programme is also the subject of bilateral cooperation between France and Germany and Italy.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic189x.u7	What about Imagery Intelligence?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic189x.u8	We have data from space observation and their processing is carried out at the national level. These data are shared but their interpretation and conclusions remain country-specific.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic189x.u9	Minister, Godetia has been active in the Mediterranean Sea since 24 May as part of Europe's efforts to respond to the plight of migrants seeking access to the EU. As you have confirmed in committee, as far as Defence participation is concerned, a distinction must be made between operations Triton and EUNAVFOR, as Triton is a civilian operation carried out at Frontex's initiative. EUNAVFOR is a military operation decided within the framework of the Union's general measures against trafficking in human beings. The Godetia will remain under national command, but a delegation of tasks was given to the Belgian representative at the Frontex Coordination Centre in Rome. So, Minister, what assessment do you draw from Godetia's involvement in Frontex's civil operation? How to assess the European coordination of this operation from Rome? Which Member States are involved in this operation with military and/or civilian means? What about possible Belgian participation in the EUNAVFOR mission? Do you always intend to require a UN resolution and a clear international framework for such a mission, whether or not it is part of it? What feedback do you have from the intervention of the EEAS (European External Action Service) to the United Nations Security Council and the Libyan authorities in this regard?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic189x.u10	Mr Minister, following the European Summit on the dramatic issue of migrants in the Mediterranean Sea on 23 April, the EU decided to strengthen Operation Triton by multiplying its budget by three and requesting further contributions from Member States in terms of ships and ground crews. The Belgian government then decided to send the Godetia to the Mediterranean. Since 24 May, he has been patrolling the Mediterranean with the other European marines participating in Triton. And it was quickly put into use, since by the 3rd of June it had already intervened at least twice in order to rescue ships in distress (received 203 and then 134 migrants, according to my information). Minister, do you confirm this information to me? Can you give me more details on these interventions? How did we proceed? Where were the migrants then transferred? What was the role of the Belgian crew in welcoming them and managing their files? In parallel with Triton, the EU Council also decided on 18 May to set up an EU military operation (EUNAVFOR Med) "to put an end to the economic model of traffickers in the Mediterranean". In this context, it is planned to gather information on the networks of smugglers, then to arrest suspicious ships in international waters and, if there is an agreement of the United Nations Security Council, to intervene militarily on the Libyan coasts in order to neutralize the ships of traffickers. Minister, for each of these three stages, what is the Belgian participation planned by the government? For its part, Godetia participates in Triton, but could it also participate in an EUNAVFOR operation? Under what conditions? According to what redevelopments? I am thinking, in particular, of the possible interventions, as close as possible to the coasts or on the Libyan coasts, to destroy the boats there. What would then be the conditions and risks of such missions? With regard to the timetable, it is currently expected that the Godetia mission will last a maximum of two months, approximately until mid-July. What then is planned with regard to Belgian participation in European efforts? Unfortunately, the problem will not be resolved until then and, therefore, is it expected that another Belgian or foreign ship will replace the Godetia in its missions in the Mediterranean? Finally, at the budgetary level, you have indicated in the press that Godetia's participation was paid at 50%, i.e. €1.4 million with funds from the European Frontex Agency and 50% with funds initially earmarked for the training of the navy. While budgetary restrictions have already significantly affected the training of our military personnel, all weapons combined, should we consider Godetia's participation in Triton as an appropriate substitute for the traditional training of our sailors? If operations were to stop in the Mediterranean, would it be for budgetary reasons?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic189x.u11	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Operation Triton of the European Frontex Agency needs ships, aircraft and helicopters. It is therefore clear that Belgian participation with a good-sized ship, equipped with a helicopter and able to conduct long patrols at sea offers real added value. The Search and Rescue operations of 29 May and 3 June 2015 in which 337 lives were saved prove the usefulness of Godetia's commitment. This night, 213 people, including 93 children, were saved. It is therefore clear that we are doing a good job. Depending on where the refugees were rescued, they landed either in Italy or in Malta. Coordination from the International Coordination Center (ICC) in Rome works perfectly thanks to the Belgian liaison officer who was sent to this organization. The vessel is very well informed and deployed effectively. Currently, seven countries are participating in this operation, namely Italy, Malta, Belgium, Sweden, the United Kingdom, Finland and Iceland. The situation is evolving. For example, France participated until 22 May, while Spain, Norway and Denmark will participate shortly. Godetia's contribution to Triton will end in early July, as I have already mentioned. The Defence is not considering its replacement for this operation. The vessel will then continue its operational program early in August and will be engaged as a command platform within the NATO Response Forces (NATO). In response to the question of migrants, on 19 May the European Union decided to make possible the organisation of a military mission in the Mediterranean Sea. The launch and activation of this operation, called EUNAVFOR Med, will take place only when the military plans have been finalised and approved by the European Union and the mission has been guaranteed proper support by the Member States in terms of means. Defence is currently awaiting the military plan being developed by the European Union as well as military needs to mobilise the required forces. Secondly, the opportunity and feasibility of committing Belgian resources will be analysed. With regard to the intervention of the EEAS in the UN Security Council, I refer you to the Minister for Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic189x.u12	Minister, thank you. Do you still intend to ask the UN for the resolution to define a clear international framework?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic189x.u13	Some countries still have problems, but we will see. It is Mrs Mogherini who is dealing with it and who is trying to find sufficient support to bring about this resolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic189x.u14	Mr Minister, I welcome Belgium's action in this area. You stressed the usefulness and necessity of this. Of course, I would have preferred it to continue. In any case, I wanted to pay tribute to this effort by our country. Of course, this is only one part of the policy designed to respond to this tragedy in the Mediterranean. I am also thinking of the fight against trafficking in human beings and all that we can still do in the countries of origin. It is also a matter of distributing efforts in Europe. On the other hand, I regret the attitude of your colleague who is discussing the criteria of the European Commission. In this respect, I believe that we must show the same voluntarism as you have shown in the field of rescue at sea. Those people who are saved at sea will have to be welcomed somewhere! There is a form of contradiction in government policy. On the one hand, humanitarian assistance is offered and on the other hand, we are reluctant to accept migrants. We will have to work on this contradiction, but I welcome your efforts.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic189x.u15	Minister, on 4 June the threat level was raised again from two to three in some places in our country. The extra security measures came after the day before photos of the autopsy were leaked on the bodies of two terrorists from Verviers. Those pictures would have shown a bottle of champagne. In which places was the threat level raised again? Are additional military forces being deployed in this increase in the threat level? Is there still a monthly evaluation of the soldiers on the street? If so, what are the results of the latest evaluation? Are there any additional or new measures?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic189x.u16	Mr Top, you will understand that for security reasons the places concerned will not be announced. It is perhaps important that I explain again how that actually works. The OCAD decides on specific safety levels and does so on the basis of an analysis of specific sites. You may be asked to evaluate specific sites, but OCAD also proactively gives a report. On 3 June there was an evaluation, which takes account of the facts described and closely follows the situation in very specific places. It was considered on 3 June that additional measures should not be provided for, but let it be clear that your question concerning increasing the number of military personnel is actually a decision of the National Security Council, and therefore of the Council of Ministers, and not of the Minister of Defence, I think I made that very clear from the outset. On the basis of the OCAD safety analysis, an evaluation was carried out on 3 June. The National Security Council sat together and confirmed that the number of soldiers is continuing, as envisaged, because the places that have fallen away are places where no military were deployed in any way. Furthermore, no additional measures were provided for.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic189x.u17	Minister, I would have liked one clarification. You are talking about an evaluation on 3 June and, if I am in favour, was indicated by the OCAD to raise the threat level again at different locations on 4 June. Is that right or not?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic189x.u18	I have read my preparation, but I will look into my agenda when we have just met. With a safe phone, things don't always get easier. The latest meeting of the Security Council took place on Tuesday 26 May. Apparently, a committee met on 4 June, but I did not take part in it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic189x.u19	Mr Minister, my question was precisely whether on 4 June, as a result of these leaked photographs, the threat level was raised in different places. That's what the press said.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic189x.u20	Mr Top, it is important to know that the OCAD works on a permanent basis. The Security Council is called together following a fundamental change in the evaluation of the OCAD, but that has not been the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic189x.u21	Madam President, Minister, since 7 January 2015, a Belgian F-16 detachment has been participating in the NATO operation "Enhanced Air Police Mission" to monitor the airspace of the Baltic States. We are working with four F-16 people from Malbork for a period of eight months on that operation. This happens after Russia annexed Crimea in March 2014 and subsequently called on NATO to strengthen its airspace security. Over the last few days and weeks, we read in the press that Russian aircraft are intercepted almost weekly by NATO fighters for violating the airspace of the Baltic States. This confrontational course may lead to fatal incidents. That's why I have the following questions. How many effective interceptions for the identification of an aircraft have our pilots already performed? How many times have our pilots been informed that an unknown aircraft has entered the NATO airspace of the Baltic States? Finally, when will an up-to-date evaluation of the mission take place?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic189x.u22	Madam President, Minister, since 8 January 2015, four Belgian F-16s have been stationed in Malbork, Poland, from where they participate in the air defence of the Baltic countries, as part of NATO's Enhanced Air Policing (EAPM) mission. Indeed, following the Ukrainian crisis and Russia's annexation of Crimea, NATO has decided to quadruple the number of allied aircraft engaged over the Baltic countries compared to the traditional Baltic Air Policing that has existed since 2004. Since the Baltic countries do not have fighter aircraft, NATO countries provide air protection in turn. According to my information, every other week, our planes are ready to take off as a matter of urgency and the other week, they take part in training with the Poles. Since the beginning of the year, the Belgian F-16 reportedly carried out at least three "interceptions" of Russian aircraft, following at least four alert take-offs. According to NATO, since the Ukrainian crisis, Russian aircraft intrusions into the airspace or borders of the Alliance have increased by more than 50%. Minister, do you confirm this information to me? What exactly did these "interventions" consist of? What does this mean in terms of safety for our pilots? What rules of engagement apply in such cases? Is it possible for our pilots to have to neutralize a Russian aircraft that does not comply with their instructions? In what situations would they have to do so? What is the line of command in these cases? Of course, it is not possible to achieve this, but in view of the increase in Russian incursions and the associated risk of escalation, is a possible exchange of fire between Belgian NATO and Russian military aircraft possible? What are the mechanisms to ensure that an already tense situation does not degenerate further? What about the risk to civilian air traffic in these areas? Indeed, in 2014 the European Aviation Safety Agency saw a significant increase (a fourfold increase compared to 2013) in security incidents over the Baltic Sea, when an airliner approached a Russian military aircraft that had become invisible after having stopped any communication on its position. Thirteen dangerous reconciliations between non-cooperative military aircraft and civilian aircraft were declared in 2014 over the Baltic Sea. And the first months of 2015 suggest that the situation continues to deteriorate. What is the role of our F-16s in addressing this risk to civil aviation? How do the Russians respond to NATO's criticisms and accusations on these issues? Should we fear a multiplication of this kind of strenuous confrontations and incursions tests on the part of the Russians?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic189x.u23	Madam President, Mr Dallemagne, Mr Top, since 8 January 2015 and updated until 4 June 2015, the Belgian pilots have carried out four concrete interceptions. In five months, our pilots were asked to take off eight times as a result of the detection of an unknown aircraft. Defence shall have an evaluation process to which each detachment commander shall contribute both during and after his mission. Each detachment stays on the scene for two months. In parallel, NATO conducts its own operational evaluation of the Enhanced Air Police Mission. Mr Top, for more concrete evaluations, please refer to the committee behind closed doors. Mr Dallemagne, there is indeed a turn of role, Quick Reaction Alert (QRA), established between the various detachments deployed within the framework of the Enhanced Air Policing. On average, our aircraft are on alert for about 50% of the time. Since the start of operations, our aircraft have carried out eight take-offs following an alert, four of which are true interceptions. As far as the procedure is concerned, it is the same as the QRA procedure here in Belgium. It is a NATO procedure shared by all participating countries. Control takes place during the CAOC in Kalkar and it is the country where the intercept is made that is responsible and makes the decisions. These are the same rules of engagement. There are steps, first of all, to get acquainted, to follow up, but it is always the country where the plane is located that ultimately makes the decision. At the level of civilian flights, the risks are the same, as everywhere in Europe. If security problems are encountered in this regard, it is rather at this level that the origins of security incidents must be investigated.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic189x.u24	Minister, you gave me a satisfactory answer and I thank you for the follow-up.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic189x.u25	I am indeed concerned about the increase in these incidents. I note that if there is, for example, an incident over Lithuania, the Lithuanian authorities are in direct contact with our pilots and may give the necessary instructions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic189x.u26	It's coordinated by the CAOC Center. It is he who makes the decision on the measures to be applied.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic189x.u27	In addition, is there a dialogue with Russia today? If so, how is this dialogue organised?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic189x.u28	There are no contacts at the Defence level.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic189x.u29	Minister, on 3 June, according to the press, you made a secret blitz visit to Jordan and Baghdad in Iraq. In Jordan, our F-16s are stationed with which attacks are carried out on the theories of the IS terrorist movement in Iraq. In Baghdad, our Belgian soldiers provide the training of Iraqi forces. The terrorists of ISIS would have moved up to 60 kilometers from Baghdad. In 3 months our Belgian soldiers would have trained 1 500 soldiers. The mission can be renewed without additional costs as it has remained below the budget so far. I would therefore like to have answers to the following questions. Can you give an evaluation of the situation on the ground? IS would be 60 kilometres from Baghdad. Are additional security measures being taken for our soldiers on the ground? Can you give an evaluation of the Iraqi troops? How many soldiers have trained, among others, the Norwegians and the Dutch in recent months? What are the next steps in the cooperation of the international coalition? Several countries have already indicated that a military solution alone will not be enough. Minister Reynders stated at the international conference in Paris that Belgium wants to continue to play its part. Did he speak in the name of the Belgian government? The international coalition promised to give more help to the Iraqi Prime Minister at a conference in Paris. Among other things, the coalition promised additional military support, such as more support for the Iraqi army. Has there already been a question to Belgium for additional military or other aid? If so, what was the specific question? It was reported that the trainings have been kept below the budget allowing the mission to be extended. How much was the original budget? How much is the remaining budget? What expenditures were apparently budgeted, but not spent? Finally, my final question. How many months can you extend the mission with the remaining budget? Where will you be able to find extra budget if this is necessary? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic189x.u30	Madam President, Minister, next June 30th will end the current mission of our six F-16s based in Jordan to participate in coalition airstrikes against Daesh. This time there is every reason to believe that this mission will not be renewed, only for budgetary reasons. On several occasions, you have mentioned this subject. In the past, there has been talk of either a new extension (through a hypothetical budget extension) or a replacement by another member of the coalition with whom Belgium could organise a rotation system, a "flip-flop" as you have designated it. For several weeks now, this last option seems to have been imposed. You even mentioned, particularly in mid-May, discussions with your Dutch counterpart in order to organise such a rotation with the Netherlands. Minister, what about today, less than three weeks from the deadline? What were the results of these discussions with the Netherlands? Have other countries been available? How did we proceed at both the Defence and Foreign Affairs levels to try to convince our partners to do this rotation with us? How do you assess our efforts in this area? In the event that Belgium does not find a replacement, what is being done? Unfortunately, Daesh is still on the offensive both in Syria (in Palmyra where they won) and in Iraq (where they conquered Ramadi). The Kurds as well as the Iraqis are asking for more support. There have been these discussions with the Minister of Foreign Affairs again. I therefore hope that we will not withdraw from the coalition without offering guarantees to our allies in terms of maintaining and even increasing the effort against Daesh, since the strategy today seems to me to be inconclusive. More recently, it has been learned that Belgium and the Netherlands may not organise a real rotation but rather that the Netherlands would only have committed itself to keeping their eight aircraft there during the Belgian withdrawal from 30 June until their hypothetical return in 2016. It must be noted that this is absolutely not what has been mentioned by the government and yourself so far, that is, a rotation where another country would have actually compensated for the departure of the Belgian F-16s. Minister, how do you justify this new situation? In any case, the government will have to decide in the next few days. The sooner the better, in order to inform our allies in the region in time. Very soon, therefore, you will have to present a formal position to the government. What are you planning to submit to your colleagues so that Belgium will continue to shoulder its responsibilities and fulfil its commitments to the coalition against Daesh?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic189x.u31	Mr President, Mr Dallemagne, Mr Top, a number of questions are rather to be referred to the special committee for the follow-up of the foreign missions. However, I will try to answer the questions as fully as possible. As far as Baghdad is concerned, the blitz visit is rather blitz. However, it was effectively a working visit, in which one person from the press was present. That person's report was correct. So for once, you can believe what was in the paper that day. The Belgian detachment is responsible for the command selection choices. There are choices in different stages. The choice of command selection is a part for which we ourselves have been responsible and lead nation. We provide specialists for the medical care courses in combat conditions, the sniper training and the command choices. The detachment, together with the coalition partners, has so far trained about 1 500 Iraqi soldiers. What I found was that the soldiers who were in training looked motivated and that thanks to the advanced mental, physical and professional training in the fight they could greatly increase their chances of survival. I was informed on the spot that there was a significant difference. Those choices have been changed. There have been added choices which have greatly increased the mental and physical conditioning of the participants. It is clear that Daesh cannot be defeated solely by military means, but that a political, if any, diplomatic solution is also needed. However, from the military coalition, it is important that sufficient resources are made available to support the long military campaign, which looks like it will be a long campaign to continue supporting it. That is why I am having an investigation at the moment into whether our contribution to the training of Iraqi troops can be extended. At present, the staff has received no request for additional military or other aid. With regard to a possible extension, I can state that, in the overall dossier on operational deployment 2015, which was also proposed in Parliament when we discussed the 2015 budget, the commitment was committed for a period of six months with a training station of 50 soldiers and on top of organic equipment, such as vehicles and equipment. The net costs for that operation were estimated at a total amount of EUR 3.78 million. Based on a refinement of the planning data as well as because we work very well with the Norwegians and the Dutch, this initial commitment is carried out in practice for a period of six months with a training detachment containing thirty soldiers and in the so-called light footprint is mood, which means that they do not have their own vehicles or other large equipment on the spot. I have already stated here in committee that security is also observed by others, for example. The costs for those six months were thus reduced to a net cost of 1.56 million euros. The budgetary coverage for the extension of this bet for a period of 4 months for a training detachment of soldiers in the same light footprint mood is estimated at 1.04 million euros and can thus be insured within the budget originally foreseen for the six months. With regard to the statements made by the Foreign Minister, I suggest that you address your questions to him. I can't possibly answer in his place. Mr Dallemagne, the option chosen for an extension of the Desert Falcon operation is a collaboration between Belgium and partner nations within the framework of the European Participating Air Forces Expeditionary Air Wing. The Netherlands is interested in more specific cooperation. We are currently engaged in putting this idea into practice. This collaboration would result in an alternation of the presence of the respective F-16 detachments on an annual basis and spread over two fiscal years. One could stay a year but cover the costs of two fiscal years. My answer prepared here is completely conditional. I don't think it's helpful to give a conditional answer. What I mean is that the Netherlands first needs a parliamentary agreement on the extension of its action. The idea is that we will be there until the end of this month. At that time, the Dutch would replace us for the next six months. Today, they have a mandate until October. First, they need an agreement from their parliament to stay longer. Then we can conclude. The idea is that we want to work together and maintain continuity in our presence but in another way, that is, at the level of command or the Protection Force. These are issues under consideration and discussion. First of all, we need an agreement at the level of the Netherlands to extend their action. I reiterate my wish to see Belgium remain present and active within the coalition by continuing to train and train Iraqi security forces on Iraqi soil by providing the Dutch Detachment Protection Force in Jordan if agreement is reached at the level of the Netherlands. I need the agreement of the Council of Ministers to plan actions in the future. Finally, by maintaining a link element in Qatar. In addition, other initiatives are currently being studied within the staff. You mentioned Syria in your question. I want to repeat again that we are not active on Syria. Today, there is no international mandate to work on it. It is only the nations that decide to do so that act, but on this point, I am more cautious.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic189x.u32	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. First of all, I had already asked the question about the F-16 detachment at the previous sitting and the answers given at that time were more than sufficient. It is a good thing to go into the answer to my colleague's question. My first concern remains the safety of our people on the ground. This will also be displayed behind closed doors in committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic189x.u33	As far as the security of our people on the ground is concerned, Daesh is quite close to Baghdad. However, I have been able to see how our people work there. We've visited different lines. I would like to comment more on this behind closed doors, but this gave me a fairly high level of certainty. I can confirm that on the basis where our people are active and their stay also has many American citizens active. That's a sign that they're pretty comfortable in it. That's a comforting sign for me. As long as American citizens are present, our detachment made up of very good people will be quite safe. I am also quite reassured about the way in which security is guaranteed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic189x.u34	It is important, however, that very much attention is paid to the safety of our people. I am pleased that you confirm once again that political and diplomatic action will be needed in order not to solve the problem, but rather to stop and reduce it. The budget has been clarified. Thank you for the figures and the explanation of the number of soldiers. I do not think you have answered the question about the number of soldiers trained by the Norwegians and the Dutch in recent months. Are those numbers known?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic189x.u35	I do not have those figures because we are active from 1 March and the Dutch and the Norwegians were there before. A number of people have already passed. You must remember that the training of an Iraqi soldier lasts 20 weeks. Those who pass there have already had a bit of training before they arrive. The output should be that the best of that training can grow to anti-terrorist cells. We'll take care of a particle. With us, 1 500 men have passed. For the command selection it was a pure selection of three weeks. That has now, thanks to our people, been transformed into a mental and physical preparation for the tests they have to take. They are trying to increase the number of people who succeed, and that is clearly the case. It is also seen in the following courses, for example in the sniper course, that motivation is much higher because one is better prepared. We have therefore certainly had a contribution in terms of quality. The number of people who have passed through our premises is almost 1 500.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic189x.u36	Minister, I will continue my reply. You just said that there was less expenditure than was budgeted. There is therefore room for extension, although no decision has yet been taken. I have another thought with regard to the F-16 detachment and the possible extension by the Netherlands. You explained earlier that the reduction in expenditure was due to cooperation with the Netherlands and Norway. This also confirms that cooperation is a good strategy. The reduction in expenditure can therefore be extended. If the Netherlands and/or Norway do not agree to an extension, I suspect that the costs will be higher for us, which will cause us budgetary problems.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic189x.u37	We can work cheaper because we work together, but above all because there is a lot of support on the basis. Let me give you an example. When the mission was prepared by on-the-spot scouts, it was initially said that medical care would be accompanied by a doctor. After four days, it has been established that the Americans have a fully equipped two hospital on the spot. The need for an own doctor on the scene was therefore perhaps unnecessary. It was then examined whether the doctor could be used for medical training on the spot. That didn't turn out to be the case. So they sent that doctor back home after a week. As far as communication is concerned, three or four people were initially brought in to set up a communication platform. Once this is done, those people will be sent back. There is cooperation on the ground. Norwegians and Dutch share an office with us, but each country has its own communication system. At some point the Dutch had a problem with the satellite. Then we put social communication at a low level, in order to make our satellite available to the Dutch. That's how we work together. That also happens in force protection. The Americans who manage the last line do so so professionally that we must make no contribution whatsoever to this. This ensures that we can work very efficiently and focus on the real core business. Our detachment was on average 29 men: a staff of eight people and the rest trainers. That's a very efficient relationship. We can do that by working together. There is no fear of any extension, because Norwegians and Dutch have signed up until the end of the year. They will evaluate later how much further. We have signed up for six months and now say that we are adding four months until the end of the year.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic189x.u38	Mr. President (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic189x.u39	Minister, you're incontrovertible.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic189x.u40	Mr President, I would like to give the information so that we can do these things intelligently. Ramadan starts this week. There will be no training. We are bringing our people back, because it makes no sense to leave them on the ground. We leave a detachment of three people there to keep an eye on and to man the communication systems. The rest of the people are coming back. That too is a sensible way of working.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic189x.u41	Mr President, Minister, I would like to make a point which is widely shared today: we are not winning the war against Daesh. It is still a factor of great concern. The pressure on Baghdad is continuing, the pressure on Damascus and Aleppo is worsening, not to mention the recently conquered cities and the fact that the front line is not very far from the major cities of Kurdistan. These are factors of serious concern. It is true that there is a real question about the strategy pursued today. These questions are legitimate. The reduction of Belgium's presence on this conflict is not a good signal in such a context. In any event, this appears to be a relative disengagement in a context where the international community is expected to engage more strongly. The second element that I wanted to stress is that even if we manage to organise this alternation with the Netherlands, it will be at a lower level than that which exists today. There are currently 14 aircraft engaged, including 8 from the Netherlands and 6 from Belgium. From now on, if the Netherlands confirms the extension of its efforts, there will be 8. I don't know how many devices we'll be there when we're there, but conventionally, Belgium deploys between 4 and 6 devices, rarely more. In any case, air effort will be much less important than today, at best. As you have pointed out, there must still be a green light from the Netherlands in this respect. In any case, I see that efforts are diminishing as the situation on the ground is worsening considerably. However, I would like to stress your willingness to try to maintain an effort, particularly in the area of training. It's extremely valuable. It would have been interesting, and I know that you have already responded to that, including in a public debate, that we know who the trained people are, especially with regard to religious distribution. It is a political signal that we would send out saying that we are Shiites, Sunnis and, where appropriate, Christians and Kurds. It would be interesting to have this information. I will question you shortly, because I think it is a positive signal that we are sending, since the integration of these different communities in Iraq is one of the current issues. The third element that I wanted to discuss with you, even though I know that by the force of things you may find it difficult to answer, but I still wanted to point out that these are the new initiatives that you have mentioned. The Foreign Minister went to Iraqi Kurdistan and made statements that he would see to what extent we could support Kurdistan and the Peshmergas. I do not know if this is part of the initiatives. You know that I have been advocating for a long time for us to better support those forces that have protected a wide range of communities and minorities. It would be interesting to see if we could not deploy, at least, the same kind of effort in Iraqi Kurdistan as we are doing in Baghdad.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic189x.u42	Thank you, colleagues, for this long exchange. You want to answer, minister?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic189x.u43	As far as the people who are trained are concerned, the four groups are concerned, as you said. It is difficult to follow them individually. On the other hand, every individual who attends training is well analyzed, both by the Americans and by our forces. We identify them, of course, but it is not we who keep their data, because it is forbidden in Belgium because of our privacy regulations. At the international level, this information is stored in a database that we can consult when we are operating abroad.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic189x.u44	Do we have access to this database?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic189x.u45	Via NATO.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic189x.u46	So you confirm that the four – Shiites, Sunnis, Christians and Kurds – are formed?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic189x.u47	Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic189x.u48	Thank you for this interesting information.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic189x.u49	Mr President, Minister, I have asked you several times in this committee about the outflow of the army. We are aware of the problems and the need for a young and fit army. Unfortunately, many young people leave the army early and do not complete their military training. Mr. Secretary, when will the armed forces be provided with their personal equipment? What is the cost per person of such equipment? Are these personal equipment returned if the person concerned does not complete his or her military training? What exactly are the rules in force in this area? Finally, what is the total cost of the personal belongings or personal equipment of military personnel leaving Defence early? After all, these equipments are not recovered.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic189x.u50	Mr President, Mr Top, every military member receives a first donation with personal equipment and clothing. This takes place in two separate phases. A first part of the package is distributed immediately after the annexation and it is composed in such a way that it seems to me quite obvious that the basic training can be followed with that part. It consists primarily of the articles attached to the combat clothing. The cost of the first package is around 850 euros per military. In a second phase, the military receives the articles mainly linked to the outfit. These are distributed for the majority of the military after completion of the basic training, so at a time when quite a few soldiers have already decided that the training is no longer necessary for them. The composition of that package is linked to the gender, which I believe to be obvious, to the power or component and to the status of the military concerned. It costs about 900 euros per soldier. The equipment is distributed in the first dose and becomes the property of the individual. For hygienic reasons, they should not be returned, should military defense leave. The total annual cost of the personal equipment of military personnel leaving Defence early depends, as you can understand, entirely on the number of military personnel recruited each year as well as on the declared attrition figures for the full duration of the project, I repeat, the full duration of the candidate years by category. It is therefore difficult to calculate this cost. However, the fact that someone costs around EUR 1 700 after full training and not only after basic training is not insignificant, but also not insurmountable. After all, we must also take into account the percentage of attrition in relation to the number of soldiers involved. If savings are the intention of your question, I have to tell you that I do not know whether this represents a great opportunity for savings.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic189x.u51	Thank you, Minister, for your answer, but I have one more question for clarification. It is true that it is with a view to savings or to ascertain whether we are being resource-efficient that I have put it. I understand that when the second package is given only after basic training, this happens because the greatest attraction is probably already behind us. However, it is not clear to me whether the clothing from the first phase, i.e. the combat clothing, is recuperable or reusable.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic189x.u52	I find it difficult to imagine that shoes and clothes used during training are being reused.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic189x.u53	I knew it differently once, a long time ago.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic189x.u54	Maybe that was during the conscription?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic189x.u55	That's right.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic189x.u56	In my opinion, shoes were never passed on, neither were pants and vests. There must be a clear difference between corps clothing and personal, individual clothing. Corps clothing was effectively passed on. An overcoat was corps clothing, but the personal equipment was personal. I think that's always been the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic189x.u57	It is indeed important to know that the necessary attention is paid to resource-saving and that night-club clothing is only given in the second phase. I would like to thank you for the necessary explanation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic189x.u58	Mr President, Minister, the Court of Auditors states in its comments on the draft adjustment of the 2015 state budget that the clearance appropriations for financing operating and capital expenditure increase by EUR 121.2 million compared to the initial budget. It is therefore a budget of EUR 714 million, for which a loan of EUR 100 million is granted from the interdepartmental commission. EUR 21.1 million will be internally compensated for human resources expenditure. The commitment appropriations allocated for operating and investment expenditure increase by EUR 83.4 million compared to the initial budget and now amount to EUR 586.45 million. For this purpose, a loan of EUR 57.9 million was granted from the interdepartmental commission and an internal compensation of EUR 25.5 million. Defence asked for an additional €4.2 million for infrastructure projects, but this was not granted. The Court notes that failure to allocate this amount, together with an administrative blocking of EUR 5.8 million, and the share of Defence in the imposed underutilisation of EUR 600 million, can ensure that Defence will not be able to meet its commitments. In addition, in the coming years, Defense will have to rely on the interdepartmental commission. I have the following questions. Will the EUR 21.1 million, which this year is offset by the reduced staff expenditure, be fully or partially taken out of the reduced recruitment rate, instead of EUR 1 350? Or is this measure not sufficient to achieve this amount? If not, what additional efforts are required from the staff budget? How do you get to EUR 25.5 million in commitment appropriations? Where do we find internal compensation? How will the DOD fulfil its commitments, taking into account the Court of Auditors' observations? Have binding agreements been reached on the interdepartmental commission for the coming years? If so, which one? According to the Court of Auditors, Defense must confine itself to the most urgent investments, such as infrastructure for the reception of the A400M devices. Has a list of the most urgent investments already been drawn up? If so, is this list available? When will you submit an adapted budget to the Chamber? When do you expect Belgium to be able to pay its contribution of EUR 58.3 million to the Airbus A400M development and production programme?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic189x.u59	With regard to your comment on the Court of Auditors, I would like to point out that, subject to a number of mismentioned figures here and there, we endorse the Court of Auditors' conclusions. The reduction in staff expenditure has its origins in two areas. First, the recruitment stop in 2014 and the reduction in the number of recruitments in 2015. I would remind you of the discussion on the recruitment of 1 340 instead of 1 750 people. Now we're going to 700. That is, of course, a saving. Secondly, the estimated staff expenditure resulting from the operations was aligned with the operation plan approved by the Council of Ministers in December 2014. If a budget is drawn up, an initial amount shall be set. This is being refined and presented to the Council of Ministers as an operational plan for the next year. I also explained this in committee. The appropriate budgets are linked to this. There have, of course, been shifts. It is mainly because of the reduction in staff expenditure that additional commitment resources can be created. My department is doing everything it can to meet commitments. Unless exceptional situations occur, this will not be a problem for 2015. It is up to the government, in view of the urgency and urgency, to grant the interdepartmental commission. As for 2015, my department will have to rely on this commission for the period 2016-2019. Its allocation will be discussed in budgetary negotiations. Subject to a few exceptions mentioned by the Court of Auditors in its comments on budgetary adjustment, investments in both physical and infrastructure resources are limited to the most necessary to ensure the day-to-day operation. This is a long list of small expenditure subject to normal administrative rules and budgetary control. Infrastructures possibly linked to the deployment of the A400M are being studied with a view to the strategic plan and with a view to possible alternative financing. They are not part of the investments just mentioned. As far as the adjusted budget of the CDSCA is concerned, it was delivered to the Minister for the Budget last week and will shortly be submitted to the Chamber. In reply to your question about the Belgian contribution to the programme Development and Production Airbus A400M, I must inform you that this is not within my competence. I must refer you to the Prime Minister's policy cell.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic189x.u60	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I have therefore understood that the changes in the number of staff made it possible to make additional savings, which will ensure that shifts are possible. You have said that you can make the payments for 2015. Of course, I'll stay, along with you, perhaps, worried about the next few years. Then payments will have to be made. Your answer to my question as to whether the interdepartmental commission is already fixed for the coming years was negative. However, you will need it again in the next few years, as was mentioned in the previous debate. I hope you will succeed in making all the investments and payments. I have an additional concern, given the limited budgetary possibilities, when you say that only small expenditure and the most necessary expenditure can now be financed. You have replied that the large expenditures, as for the A400M, can continue, but the government statement also lists other expenditures. I wonder how they can be financed. This is likely to give rise to a further debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic189x.u61	Mr Minister, I am asking this question as a result of an incident in my region. On 11 May, the police area of Gavers was informed by the cleaning service of the Belgian army that an ammunition depot was discovered in the municipality of Deerlijk. The depot would possibly consist of a thousand explosives of all kinds of make and origin. According to DOVO, the depot had to be removed as soon as possible, but the salvage works could not take place until DOVO had access to a crane. It was then agreed that DOVO would summon a certified crane operator, while Harelbeke's technical service would provide a crane. In addition, the mayor of Deerlijk requested a crane from the city council of Harelbeke. The Gavers police area would lead everything to ensure the safety of the population. A few days later, however, it appeared that the ammunition was not in the territory of the municipality of Deerlijk, but in the territory of the municipality of Zwegem, which made another police zone and thus another municipality responsible for the safety of the residents and for the material. Does DOVO itself have material available in such cases? Is the collection of material in the municipal administration the usual method? Such situations occur mainly in West Flanders. Was there contact with civil protection, which often has such resources, in the case cited, and possibly in other cases? Who pays for the use of the crane and the execution of those assignments? Which orders can DOVO execute exactly? Is the service competent, for example, to evacuate underground warehouses or in this case to dig up ammunition? If not, are the municipalities obliged to contact private companies to evacuate an underground storage facility? In that case, who pays the bill?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic189x.u62	Mr Top, it is important in these matters to know who is responsible, who is responsible, who is responsible, and who is ultimately responsible, and who, I can understand, certainly in your situation, pays the bill. The general framework for the intervention modalities of the Detonation and Destruction Service, DOVO, on the national territory was agreed between Defence, the Home Office and the FPS Justice and was re-established in a protocol agreement, which has been in force since 1 August 2014. Article 1, 3 of that Protocol provides that the services covered by the Home Office shall carry out their statutory tasks in such a way as to enable DOVO to carry out its tasks in the most efficient and effective manner. The support provided may relate to the use of all the specialized resources requested by the DOVO team, such as the crane or excavator mentioned by you. Contact with Civilian Protection is a competence of the local government. The Home Office, through its competent local authorities, may, depending on the severity of the situation, take measures to deploy additional resources from, inter alia, Civil Protection and Fire Departments. In this case, the costs will be borne by the local authorities. DOVO is responsible for the neutralization, clean-up and destruction of explosive devices found. The resources of DOVO are not used a priori in the location of jumpers, except for localisation operations where the use of specific equipment, which is only present at DOVO, is necessary. Localisation means all research operations, the detection and demarcation of a zone and the preparation of a report detailing the localised harnesses. Local authorities may, of course, apply for private companies to carry out ammunition localisation operations at their own expense. So DOVO has to clean up and that always happens on demand or at the direction of the local government or the federal police.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic189x.u63	Thank you, Minister, for your detailed explanation, which was interesting. Your answer is also interesting for my fellow mayors from my region, who will probably have to pay the bill. I have another question, but that is a legal question rather than a question for the Defence Committee. I wonder who bears the responsibility in the event of misuse of the materials made available. Does that fall under the municipal administration or under DOVO? I do not think that this question should be answered immediately, but I do ask the question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic189x.u64	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic189x.u65	Right. I'll leave it to my fellow mayor of Zwedgem. He's a lawyer, and he might be better at answering.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic189x.u66	Mr. Secretary, our boys are too fat. At least that is what some newspapers wrote in response to my previous written question. I wouldn't exaggerate myself. It is true that the BMI is slightly higher than the standard, namely 26.3 kg/m2 while the limit is 25. That is not entirely illogical, as our defence device is ageing and weight is often increasing with age. It's striking though that the women are doing a little better. The average BMI has not decreased since a first measurement in 2007. The problem is now well known by the Defense Department and all kinds of tools have been launched to reduce the BMI and increase overall fitness. For example, there is the integrated program MeNuFit and military can use an online dietician. In your reply to my written question, you indicated that the MeNuFit programme will be evaluated because it does not seem to work very well. The online dietician, on the other hand, is paying off. Thus 811 soldiers lost an average of 4 kilograms in two months. A lot of women on diet would be jealous of it. I have a few questions about this. What do you think are the causes of the non-descended BMI, while many tools have been launched? When will MeNuFit be evaluated and according to what criteria? The results with the online dietician are good. Will you further promote that initiative? How do you propose to do that? Will you take further initiatives to improve the fitness of the military and reduce the BMI? If so, what initiatives?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic189x.u67	Mrs Hufkens, I hope I do not have to call in a personal statement. Overweight is a broad social phenomenon that is directly linked to the age and lifestyle of the person concerned. Military people do not escape it and their BMI is similar to that of the Belgian population of the same age. Defence is taking concrete measures to combat the problem, but the impact of the measures will always be limited. After all, the military eat most meals outside of Defence and a healthy way of life should have been learned long before their recruitment. However, there has recently been a trend towards a decline in the BMI figure. The evaluation of the MeNuFit programme has recently been launched and will be completed by the end of 2015. The evaluation criteria are still being refined. Now you should know that the goals of MeNuFit are much wider than mere weight loss. The main aim of the programme is to assist soldiers in building their condition, including through healthier eating and living habits, in order to make them operational in this way. Military can also use a digital dietician on a voluntary basis. The promotion of the digital dietician takes place via the intranet, in brochures and with articles in the military magazine Debriefing. Since 2013, the military have been invited to respond to a health survey every year. This concerns, among other things, the BMI and the sport practice. The results are published on the intranet to further sensitise the military to the risk derivatives of overweight. In 2014 and 2015, an investigation was carried out in the military restaurants. The results are intended to develop corrective measures such as menu adjustment, improved customer information, improved chefs training and so on. In addition, efforts are being made to promote more physical activity. Since the introduction of the new mandatory physical testing and the new sports policy, a merit of my predecessor, a promotional campaign has been launched to get more sport practiced. Both the command and the sports monitors are working on this. The latter are responsible for the guidance of the military in their preparation for the tests, because these tests may have statutory consequences as you know from 2019. Of course, that is also an additional incentive to encourage soldiers to work on their condition.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic189x.u68	Minister, there is already a great deal, as I said myself. The military also know that this exists and that it is being promoted, but they themselves indicate that they are not coached very much. It's very interesting, but starting and persevering it turns out to be harder. Of course, that's more up to them. You can't force that. I understand that, too.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic189x.u69	Question No 54, by Mr De Pasquale 4964, No. 4967 and No. Mr De Vriendt converted 4968 into written questions.
