ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-28-54-plenair-ip048x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-28-54-plenair-ip048x.u2	We must proceed with the admission and swearing-in of the successor who is eligible to replace Mrs Zakia Khattabi, who resigned on 25 May 2015. We must proceed to the admission and swearing-in of the alternate appointed to replace Mrs Zakia Khattabi, who resigned on 25 May 2015. The successor to her will be Gilles Vanden Burre, the first successor to the Brussels-Capital constituency. The alternate is Gilles Vanden Burre, the first alternate in the electoral district of Brussels-Capital. The credentials of Mr Gilles Vanden Burre were declared valid at our meeting on 19 June 2014. The powers of Gilles Vanden Burre were validated in our meeting on June 19, 2014. Since the additional examination provided for in Article 235 of the Code of Choice refers exclusively to the maintenance of the eligibility requirements, in the light of the documents obtained, it is a mere formality in the present circumstances. Since the supplementary verification, provided for in article 235 of the Electoral Code, relates only to the preservation of the conditions of eligibility, it appears that this verification, in the light of the documents obtained, has only a character of purely formality. I therefore propose that this Member be admitted. I therefore propose that you proceed to the admission of this member. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. I would remind you that the elected representatives of the people of the Brussels district are part of the Dutch or French language group of the Chamber, depending on whether they take the oath in Dutch or in French. If the oath is taken in several languages, the language in which it was first taken is decisive. I would point out that the Members elected by the electoral college of the arrondissement of Brussels are members of either the French linguistic group or the Dutch linguistic group of the Chamber, depending on whether they take an oath in French or Dutch. If the oath is taken in several languages, the one used in the first place is decisive. I recall the words of the oath: "I swear to comply with the Constitution" "Your judge d'observer la Constitution" "Ich schwöre die Verfassung zu befolgen." Je rappelle les termes du serment: "Je jure d'observer la Constitution" "I swear to comply with the Constitution" "Ich schwöre die Verfassung zu befolgen '. I would ask Mr Gilles Vanden Burre to take the constitutional oath. I ask Mr. Gilles Vanden Burre to take the constitutional oath.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-28-54-plenair-ip048x.u3	Mr Gilles Vanden Burre will be part of the French language group. Gilles Vanden Burre will be part of the French linguistic group.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-28-54-plenair-ip048x.u4	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 27 May 2015, I propose that you enter on the agenda of this afternoon's plenary session: . The following interplays: - the interplay between Mrs Karine Lalieux and the Prime Minister on 'the Government's position on the information withheld by the Minister for Energy during the parliamentary debate on the extension of the life of nuclear power stations Objectives 1 and 2' (No. 41); - the interplay between Mr Michel de Lamotte and the Prime Minister on the extension of the life of nuclear power stations Objective 1 and Objective 2 (No. 42); - the interplay between Mr Jean-Marc Nollet and the Prime Minister on 'the impasse in which the energy dossier has ended and the way in which the Minister for Energy deals with that dossier' (No. 44); - the interplay between Mr Johan Vande Lanotte and the Prime Minister on "the approach of the Minister for Energy to the extension of the life of nuclear power stations" (No. 45); - the interplay between Mr Olivier Maingain and the Prime Minister on "the Government's position on the information withheld by the Minister for Energy during the debates on the draft law on security of supply provisions in the field of energy" (No. 48); - the interplay between Mr Raoul Hedebouw and the Prime Minister on 'the nuclear issue' (No. 49); - the interplay between Mr Kristof Calvo and the Prime Minister on the operation of the Minister for Energy and the monitoring of security of supply (No. 47). . the report of the Commission for the Prosecutions, No. 1107/1. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 27 May 2015, I propose that you include in the agenda of this afternoon's plenary session: - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, - the inquiry by Mrs Karine Lalieux to the Prime Minister on "the government's position on the information concealed by the Minister of Energy during the parliamentary debates on the extension of Doel 1 and 2 nuclear reactors" (No 41); - the inquiry by Mr Michel de Lamotte to the Prime Minister on "the extension of Doel 1 and 2" (No 42); - the inquiry by Mr Jean-Marc Nollet to the Prime Minister on "the impasse in the energy issue and the manner in which it is managed by the Minister of Energy" (No 44); - the inquiry by Mr Johan Vande Lanotte to the Prime Minister on "the approach of the Minister of Energy with regard to the extension of the life of nuclear power plants" (No 45); - the inquiry by Mr Olivier Maingain to the Prime Minister on "the government's position on the information concealed by the Minister of Energy in the debates on the draft law on energy security provisions" (No. 48); - the inquiry of Mr Raoul Hedebouw to the Prime Minister on "the nuclear energy issue" (No 49); - the inquiry by Mr Kristof Calvo to the Prime Minister on "the way in which the Minister of Energy works and the monitoring of security of supply" (No. 47). - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-28-54-plenair-ip048x.u5	By letter of 27 May 2015, the Prime Minister shall transmit a copy of the Royal Decree of 27 May 2015 entitled "Government changes'. By letter dated May 27, 2015, the Prime Minister transmitted a copy of the Royal Order of May 27, 2015 entitled "Government – Amendments". By way of notification Pour information
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-28-54-plenair-ip048x.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you of the Rules of Procedure. The first interpellant gets ten minutes, the next five. Mrs. Lalieux, please.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-28-54-plenair-ip048x.u7	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister, I have been a Member of Parliament for fifteen years. I have worked with many ministers, I have had very difficult debates in this Parliament. It's normal in a democracy. But in fifteen years of parliamentary debate, I had never accused a minister of lying. It's hard words, it's a strong accusation that can't be pronounced lightly. I'm aware of that. Unfortunately, the facts are there. Minister Marghem lied to Parliament when she stated that she had not hired a private law firm. Prime Minister, that is a fact. She lied to Parliament when she said that no amendments were in preparation to amend her lame bill. It's also a fact. The minister lied to Parliament when she concealed the existence of a second opinion of the Council of State, which is totally murderous for the government's bill. It's a fact again. Minister Marghem has lied to Parliament on several occasions. Unfortunately, that is a fact. Journalists and parliamentarians who were present in committee can testify to this, as can the report that is already available. To lie in parliament is not, Prime Minister, "a little storm in a small glass of water." It's not "a non-event" like Mrs Marghem said in the media. This is not about one subject like another. We are talking about population security, security of supply; we are not talking about the construction of a henhouse, but about the ten-year extension of two nuclear power plants. When it comes to nuclear power, Prime Minister, this Parliament has the right to demand the most complete transparency. Mrs Marghem's method of work has been unacceptable from a democratic point of view, as we have said and repeated in committee. But this is not the most serious. The worst thing is that as we discovered the documents hidden by the minister, it became clear that this government's energy policy went straight into the wall. The Council of State is very clear in its opinions: the government project is not on the road. The Doel 1 reactor has been closed since February 15th under the law – and that is also a fact. Contrary to what Minister Marghem claims, the government cannot reopen this reactor in a snap of fingers; a new authorization is required for Doel 1. And it is not Karine Lalieux who says so, but the experts of the Council of State and those of the Federal Nuclear Control Agency (AFCN). The opinions we have received in committee show that the government is not complying with European directives or international conventions. Before extending the life of two nuclear power plants, the government is obliged to organise an environmental impact assessment and a public inquiry. It is not Karine Lalieux who says so, but the experts mentioned above. In disregard of three negative opinions from the Council of State, which is not a lawyer among others, and from the Federal Nuclear Control Agency, which is not an agency among others, the government is heading straight into the wall, and Mrs Marghem horns and accelerates. For us, this is totally irresponsible! Prime Minister, it is not your party president's statements, nor your own statements in the media, that will properly inform parliamentarians. It was a long-term work of the opposition parties that shed light on the dangers of the government's project. For three weeks, you let your minister sink into coverts and lies. After more than forty hours of parliamentary debate, it is now clear that your bill is no longer on the road and will be subject to an avalanche of judicial remedies. After more than forty hours of parliamentary debate, it is now clear that your government is unable to guarantee security of supply for next winter. Your ideological policy at all about nuclear power creates insecurity. I'm afraid the country will pay for it next winter. This seems very comical for the Deputy Prime Ministers and for the Prime Minister: we are just talking about nuclear power plants, citizen security and security of supply! Prime Minister, if we are so angry in the gallery today, and if we ask to question you, what is rare, and which is happening for the first time, is because, for forty hours, the opposition has been despised in committee. Free to continue to despise her here! But we will say what we will have to say! [[(...):]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-28-54-plenair-ip048x.u8	I think the majority would have a few words to say too... Prime Minister, I'm done because I feel like I'm tired, bored and laughed at you. But I don't know if the citizens will laugh! It is time, Prime Minister, to take your responsibilities by clarifying your position before this House. Prime Minister, have you reminded the minister of her obligation of transparency and information to Parliament or do you consider her method of work to have been and to be irreproachable? Do you confirm that the government refuses to follow the advice of the Council of State and the AFCN, all of which recall the legal obligation to organize an environmental impact assessment and public consultation prior to the Doel 1 reactor restart? Finally, what is your government's strategy to ensure short-term security of supply, as it has become clear that Doel 1 and Doel 2 will probably be unavailable next winter? Prime Minister, I hope to get some concrete answers to all of my questions as well as some responsibility for this government.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-28-54-plenair-ip048x.u9	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, ministers, ladies and gentlemen, last Tuesday, the members of the Committee on the Economy witnessed the revelation of the existence of a legal opinion of a law firm requested by the cabinet of Minister Marghem, while, for the past two weeks, your energy minister denied in committee having asked for such an opinion through his cabinet. The document proves the opposite, but that same evening, interviewed by Terzake, the minister repeated her remarks by adding that she had had this opinion for months and that the request for notice was dated April 24, 2015. Parliamentarians have also found in the press that an amendment providing for retroactivity for Doel 1 has been sent to the Council of State, but this amendment has been atomised by the Council of State. The opinion of the Council of State, which the Minister had hidden from us, states that an impact assessment and an environmental assessment must be carried out in compliance with the Aarhus and Espoo international conventions. The Council of State also states that this is a completely new authorisation which would be granted after the shutdown of the plant. The Council of State has also rejected retroactivity because it wants citizens to be able, in an effective way, to lodge their complaints against the envisaged extension of the authorisations which have expired. Prime Minister, it is not because the amendment was not tabled that the opinion no longer exists. Contrary to what the minister said, the opinion of the Council of State is not an opinion like the others. The Minister does not follow the two opinions of the Council of State, nor does she follow the advice of the AFCN. His argument is that the government must extend Doel 1 and 2 for ten years to ensure security of supply next winter. It no longer stands at all now in view of the opinion of the Council of State which makes it impossible to reopen Doel 1 before the winter. The Minister of the Interior confirmed that the Salto study, an international monitoring mission prior to the extension of a reactor's life, would not take place before the end of the year. This is a complete break in the management of nuclear safety. As part of the extension of Tihange 1 to 2025, AFCN requested the International Agency to organize a pre-Salto mission in Tihange 1 in 2012. AFCN and Electrabel recognize in several published documents in time non-suspecto the need for such control before the extension of the lifespan. It is essential that the IAEA, which is a recognized international authority, carry out this control prior to the restart of Doel 1 and the possible extension of Doel 2. The government cannot compromise on nuclear safety. In addition, is it not necessary to have these two plants examined whether or not cracks exist? They weren't. In her explanations, the Minister was not convinced of her ability to ensure security of supply, nor of the legal certainty of the proposed provisions. Mr Prime Minister, do you consider it essential to guarantee the security of Belgian citizens, security of supply and legal certainty in this matter? If so, while the Council of State has given two extremely negative opinions on this bill, do you not feel that this bill should be withdrawn? After hearing all these facts, which Belgian citizen can still have confidence in the Minister of Energy, Mrs Marghem, on this matter? Therefore, do you feel that the Minister of Energy is still able to manage such an important issue as security of supply and the other three? I ask you, Prime Minister, to personally manage this issue and to urgently examine alternative avenues for security of supply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-28-54-plenair-ip048x.u10	Mr President, Prime Minister, what we have been through in Parliament in recent days is unworthy. Contrary to what I said in the written inquiry that I filed with the President, I will not elaborate on each element in detail. Colleagues have already done so, as have the press. The words that have been used are hard, both in the South and in the North: pride, lies, concealment, contradiction, amateurism. But that is the past, and that is what we have experienced in committee under the chairmanship of Mr Delizée. The report is here to attest to this. Prime Minister, today we need you to go beyond what was experienced in committee. I would like to take advantage of this inquiry and, with you, look to the future and address two short-term dimensions in this matter: on the one hand, the question of alternatives, because they exist, and on the other hand, the question of the convention. As Prime Minister, I know you are particularly attentive to these two dimensions. Beyond the question and the polemics that have been before us, I would like to bring you into the debate on energy policy a little bit. As Prime Minister, that can only be an issue for you! Firstly, with regard to the question of alternatives, do you not consider that the first thing to do before imagining any other policy is to succeed in preventing, avoiding the closure of existing plants? There are at stake 1,300 megawatts that are potentially being closed for the moment in Belgium: 1,300 megawatts is more than the 866 megawatts of Doel 1 and Doel 2. As Prime Minister, do you not consider it urgent and, dare I say, priority, first to address this? Your government agreement talks about it. Your agreement of 18 December, which has been discussed so much in committee, and the overall package call this a priority measure. But then why did your energy minister make the choice to first work on Doel 1 and 2 before tackling this reality that would allow us to avoid these difficulties? You have not followed all the debates in committee. It's quite normal; it's not your job. However, I suppose, Prime Minister, that your Minister of Energy has mentioned at government meetings the alternative that ecologists have put on the table a month ago: the so-called Woitrin track, former director of the CREG – the old word is not pejorative in my mouth, contrary to the attitude of others who consider that someone who has come out of office has no more skills, but let's move on! This trail, Prime Minister, which allows an additional 1,000 megawatts to be brought to Belgium, also avoids this dangerous and very expensive project, which aims to extend the Doel 1 and 2 power stations. We can have different views on nuclear power. The environmentalists have their position. There may be different targets for energy policy choices. But in correct political reasoning, in honest intellectual reasoning, is it not necessary to accept, at the very least, the analysis of credible alternatives that colleagues are putting on the government table? This is a question that I am asking you because it has already been raised in committee. But there is nothing to do: for the Minister of Energy, it is unthinkable! For other colleagues, whom I would like to thank, in particular Mr Wollants, who opened the door, it is probably possible to accept not the runway but the analysis of the runway. Mr Prime Minister, could you not, as you are here in this Parliament, make a commitment to send the minister to hold this meeting that we are simply waiting for to analyse the track with the various partners? On this subject, could you not at least, here, open the door? Secondly, with regard to the Convention, we know all the fragility of this text, which has been charred by the Council of State and by the legal opinion of the Federal Nuclear Control Agency, the famous gendarme. When asked about Mr Jambon, Minister of the Interior, he said: "I will do everything the Federal Agency tells me to do. If she asks for work, I'll get it done. If there's a red light, we'll watch it. If she says we have to wait, we'll wait." And if the Federal Agency says and writes that the legal text is no longer on the road, why, in this case, are we not following? In view of the fragility of the legal situation today, we fear in particular that Electrabel, under this Convention, will ask for a guarantee that, if the text is subsequently annulled by a legal or other decision, the Belgian State, the budget, the citizens would have to repay the investments, up to EUR 700 million. Prime Minister, can you give us this guarantee that the Minister of Energy did not want to give us, that the agreement will exclude any clause that would allow Electrabel to receive EUR 700 million if the law were to be subsequently annulled by the courts? The Minister of Energy was unable to do so. I am counting on you to give us this clear guarantee.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-28-54-plenair-ip048x.u11	Mr President, it is the first time I have had to interperate a government. One is never too old to learn. Honestly, I wasn't planning on doing it either. In the first year of the government, I have also gone as little as possible on the path of criticism. I am doing my interview today because what we have been through is very unusual and irresponsible. I am not so interested in knowing a little bit of why the Minister is being somewhat secretive about legal advice, whether written or not. Did she tell the truth or not? In fact, that is not my first concern, as I am no longer so interested in why it is said that there is no amendment, while the amendment lies with the Council of State. These are questions we have asked about the responsibility of the Minister, but they are threatening to remove us from the heart of the debate. The question of whether or not the Minister has said the truth is not at the heart of the debate. The heart of the debate is something else. I have not yet seen that, in all honesty, in the time I have spent here, both in the opposition and in the majority, in that way. There is a bill before it which the government says is urgent and important. We are talking about security of supply for our country, which must be guaranteed. Everyone agrees that this is important. However, in order to work that out, all impartial opinions continue to be opposed. There are opinions that the government agrees with, but they were written by Electrabel or the government. There are only three impartial opinions. The first opinion comes from the Council of State and is negative. The second opinion of the Council of State is even devastating. The third opinion of the FANC, the nuclear watchdog, says no. Despite these three opinions, there is no change in the government's position, as if these three bodies were totally irrelevant. When it comes to the initiative to deploy gas power stations, and the European Union is asking that they have questions, the government has them shut down. We do not have questions here, we received very sharp criticism from impartial bodies that say that it will not succeed. However, you continue and do not take any initiatives to adapt it. I would like to say the following about Objective 1. In the schedule given to the committee by Elia, Objective 1 should not be open in winter. In Elia's schedule, Objective 1 is closed in winter. We don't say that, it's in Elijah's note. If one now says that one cannot afford that it would last two or three months longer for Objective 1, then that is not in accordance with what Elijah himself says. Moreover, at the second reading in committee there is an alternative. It concerns Mr Woitrin's infamous note, partly contradicted by Elijah. I'm not an electrician, thank God, but you're not, and no one on this committee is. No one in committee can say that Mr Woitrin's proposal is good or not. There's no shame in that either. Then why should we not investigate this? I understand if the majority believes that this is a manoeuvre by the opposition. We come here with a text, we are asked to examine it again, and that is how we are going to buy time. No, the proposal was to put these people together with an expert to get a proper note on this. Mr Wollants, a member of the majority, who has often spoken in the debate, said that he agreed. I address myself to the Prime Minister. I'm a courteous man, I'm talking to the Prime Minister. If others don't listen, that's their problem, not mine. Prime Minister, Mr Wollants and the opposition have said that they do not want to delay this. Mr Wollants agreed to that, and so did we. Otherwise, of course, it is a vicious opposition area. That's not what we're here for. I'm not used to that. I still have to learn that. We ask that this be at least technically examined, detailed and with all the information. They say no, they have to do it themselves if they feel like it. This means that we will soon be voting on a law which we say is absolutely necessary, because there is no alternative or other option, but one does not even want to examine whether it is true. Why do they do that? Why do people want to go on like that? You have an idea of the energy mix and that idea may be different from mine. There is nothing wrong with that, but as a government you have a responsibility to take responsibility, especially after three negative opinions from impartial organisations and a question for expertise to investigate, all the more so because the opening of Objective 1 in winter does not even occur in Elijah's baseline scenario and so you have that time. Prime Minister, I will conclude with a question. We have different opinions. You want to keep Target 1 open. It is your right to want it, but if you want it, you must do it correctly. Take legal and technical advice into account, do not call for urgency, because it is not there for Objective 1, and make sure that we do not get a law on security of supply instead of a law on security of supply, because that is where you are very close.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-28-54-plenair-ip048x.u12	Prime Minister, Minister, a nuclear power plant is not a cookie factory. A nuclear power plant is dangerous. With a nuclear power plant, we must be very careful. One and a half million people live 30 kilometers around Doel. That's what today is about. Greenpeace clearly says that a nuclear fire costs EUR 23 billion to the economy, while Electrabel is only insured at EUR 1.2 billion. This is what the debate is about today: how can we guarantee the safety of Objectives 1 and 2? However, Madam Minister, you hid many things from us last week. The question that arises today is the reason why you have hidden so many things. Of these elements, the opinion of the Council of State is not the least. I've only been a Member of Parliament for a year. I have always been told that the opinion of the Council of State is important. The opinion of the Council of State is something important. That's what I was told here as a young parliamentarian. What does the Minister say? That it's one of so many opinions. Allow me to read that advice. Page 5 of this notice: This is the exhibit you failed to show us. On page 5, it says that the proposed scheme is about your scheme...... a legal fiction is used. The Council of State is talking about a fiction. A little further, on page 8, there is a passage that you would like to hide, like our fellow Members from Green and Ecolo, who have demonstrated well over the past few weeks. I read: "The obligations include drawing up an environmental impact assessment as well as informing the public concerned and organising effective public participation in the decision-making process." Two conditions. Two important conditions are set out in the opinion of the Council of State. Yet, Madam Minister, you have hidden this from us! You failed to communicate to Parliament. It's a first little lie. Secondly, you informed us that the opinion came from your own administration, while you ordered it from a private firm outside. You told us that you requested the opinion in February 2015 when you requested it in April 2015. The question before us today, ladies and gentlemen, is why a minister in office deliberately lied to Parliament. The question that concerns us here today is why a minister responsible for nuclear safety in Belgium has not passed on certain elements to Parliament. This is an important question, and I think I can find an answer in the following analysis, Minister. One of the problems we have in Belgium is that, for our electricity supply, we depend from A to Z on a single multinational company, GDF-Suez, which controls almost all energy production in our country. It maintains contacts up to the highest level of the state. As you know, in your office, the elders of Electrabel are legion and hold the most important responsibilities. This apparent lobbying has succeeded in achieving results, namely that a minister who normally has the task of ensuring nuclear safety flouting it under the pressure of a single multinational that continues to control our energy policy from A to Z. If we had not filed an inquiry, the government would continue its policy. I say this loud and clear: we cannot continue to play with the safety of our fellow citizens by entrusting energy power to this multinational alone. And you, Madam Minister, have gone so far as to commit the fault of hiding important elements from us, because you do not want to intervene in the Belgian nuclear market and energy production and you leave all power to this multinational in disregard of the safety of our fellow citizens. Prime Minister, my inquiry is very clear. My first question is: Do you still have confidence in your minister who has hidden important elements from us? Secondly, can you assure us that there is sufficient electricity available and that Belgian citizens are safe? Finally, Prime Minister, will you open the necessary debate on the energy mix in the coming weeks or will you continue to cover up your minister who is going to completely lock up the debate, as is the case today?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-28-54-plenair-ip048x.u13	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister, I have just looked it up: 21 December 1975 is your date of birth. A few weeks earlier, Objective 2 opened and a few months earlier, Objective 1 opened. So you are the first Prime Minister in the history of Belgium to be born post Objective 1 and Objective 2. You are the first politically responsible, the first captain of our country born after the opening of those ancient nuclear power stations. At the time of Objective 1 and Objective 2, Prime Minister Leburton was in your place and later Prime Minister Tindemans. We are not yet talking about Prime Ministers Martens, Dehaene or Verhofstadt. From a prime minister post-Doel, I would expect him to embrace the future. I would expect bold statements on energy policy and nuclear safety, as your young blue Luxembourg Prime Minister dares to do. I would expect a Prime Minister to embrace transparency and support it. You are, however, an old Prime Minister at the moment. You're either Leburton or Tindemans, but you're not Prime Minister Post-Doel. You are the prime minister of a nuclear government, of an Electrabel government. You are Prime Minister of a government that lies to Parliament and confuses public opinion with lies and falsehoods. Just like Mr Vande Lanotte, it is the first interplay for me. I often speak, but I have not used the means of interplay very often. It is now the first time, just because of those falsehoods, lies, political mistakes, the indecent behaviour of your Minister of Energy. For me, today's debate is not about whether we are for or against nuclear energy. The most important debate is about how we conduct politics in our country. [[Madam Minister, I can only say that you lied to Parliament.]] That didn't happen once, twice, or three times, but many times. You have taken steps with regard to legislation and transparency. However, until today, until now, you have maintained that you have never lied to Parliament. So there won't even be a small mea culpa. It is even too much to say that all editors in this country have a point that they could have handled it a little differently. No, the minister says she didn't make any mistakes. I see this as an invitation to read out a number of quotes from the committee report. Your government submitted an amendment to the Council of State on 30 April. Mr President of the Chamber, I am also addressing you, because it is about your house, about our house, about how we do politics here in this assembly. A few days after the government tabled an amendment, the Minister in committee says that there is no reason to submit an amendment to this bill. That was a lie, a falsehood, an indecent political behavior of you, Madam Secretary of Energy, who has the honour of managing this beautiful country on that fascinating domain. Madam Minister, I would like to give a second example, in the hope that you will at least admit that mistakes have been made. I cannot give them all, Prime Minister, I cannot list all the falsehoods, because I only have five minutes. On external legal advice, the report says the following.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-28-54-plenair-ip048x.u14	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-28-54-plenair-ip048x.u15	Mr Van Rompuy, I find it very strange that I have not yet heard you, Mr Freedom of speech, the freed-up parliamentary of this majority, in this debate. You nod here together with the rest of the majority that it is normal for a minister to lie to Parliament. I think that's weird. When are you going to write a book about that? When are you going to say something about that? It is not serious, Mr Van Rompuy, that Parliament should be treated in this way. Have you, with your 30 years of parliamentary experience, already experienced this? Do it, ladies and gentlemen, and people can see that this majority is dealing with such a nonchalant, amateur way of dealing with such a dossier. I am glad that this has now been demonstrated, and I am glad to see that. Solidarity in the opposition is greater than in the majority. I'm speeding up, Mr President. I'm about to finish. This brings me to the question of when you were aware of everything. Do you still think the functioning of your energy minister is normal? If a minister of your government turns a blind eye, we expect a prime minister to act. Finally, this is not only a formal problem, but also an important problem of substance. Our question is to withdraw the design, please. Our citizens have a right to security when it comes to energy. Mrs Marghem's path is not only full of falsehoods, but is also doomed to failure. If you are not clear on that today, it is very difficult to say that you are a credible Prime Minister. If anything happens in winter, Prime Minister, you are responsible. You have a chance now, Mrs Marghem has missed several to make things right, please use it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-28-54-plenair-ip048x.u16	Mr President, I would like to begin by thanking the various parliamentarians who have addressed questions by trying to focus on an important issue. It is true that energy policy is a crucial issue. That is why we have spent a great deal of time in the negotiations to include clear commitments for the future in the coalition agreement. That is a first observation. We can all regret that – and by saying that, I am not putting anyone in particular – none of the governments that preceded us have succeeded in putting in place a stable strategy, in the short, medium and long term, to ensure that our country is both sovereign in terms of supply and, at the same time, can guarantee an affordable price as well as a high level of security and safety. It is true that this is one of the difficult, delicate, complex issues that the government must tackle. As far as I am concerned, I hope that this can be done in the greatest serenity, in the framework of parliamentary debates where, of course, all the information must be given. Objective and transparency must be guaranteed. [[Vif applause]] I thank the opposition for its intellectual honesty and encouragement. Mr Vande Lanotte, everyone here recognizes your very great experience in this area and the seriousness you have shown in your speech. I agree with you that an opinion of the Council of State should be regarded as meaningful and serious and that it is important for the government to take it into account. It is also true, however, that a government also has the opportunity, with legal arguments, to withdraw from an opinion of the Council of State. That is not the first time for this government, by the way. I have a less long experience here than you, Mr Vande Lanotte, but I do remember very well how, with regard to the sixth state reform, a two-thirds majority withdrew from the opinion of the Council of State on a number of very important points. I also appreciate, Mr. Nollet, that you did not focus on this aspect. I guess you have, like me, a little experience on the subject. As Minister of Energy, on three occasions you have rejected the opinion of the State Council on energy matters. Colleagues, law is not an exact science. Law is a human science. Law is not mathematics. Indeed, in a matter so complex, so technical in legal terms, it appears that differing opinions, different interpretations could be expressed and addressed to the administration, to the minister, to some parliamentarians. In this delicate and difficult matter, our wish, which was in line with the legitimate aspirations of the opposition, was to allow dozens of hours of debate in committee, including the hearing of sixteen experts. I remember that at the end of 2013, as part of the discussions around Tihange, no expert had been interviewed. These hearings enable Parliament, with due respect for democracy, to form an opinion and to vote in an informed manner on the subject. Mr Nollet, I will now respond to the important points you mentioned. I want to do so in an open and constructive manner by telling you our convictions and commitments. You tell us that nuclear power is not a good strategy and that there are other alternatives. I believe that these are not alternatives, but complementary avenues in parallel with the efforts that are being made. In parallel with efforts and our commitment to finding solutions in the short, medium and long term, we need to explore all possible avenues in order to be in order in the short, medium and long term. That is why, on the basis of the current government agreement, the government made a number of commitments very quickly in December 2014 and on the initiative of the Minister. I'll give you some examples of leads and I'm even going beyond what you're considering with the so-called Woitrin track. First, we must indeed, and we have, ask Elia to continue efforts to strengthen interconnection capacities. As for the Woitrin track you are referring to, there are discussions at the moment between technical experts (and non-legals) to find out how long this could have a positive effect. In the short term, for the next winter? For later? We must actually get around the table with the various experts. I confirm that it is the government's will to organise the necessary meetings to examine with Elijah and with our international partners, including in the Low Countries, the possible solutions in the short, medium and long term. I can also tell you that, in the margins of the meeting in Riga last week, I had a discussion on this at the highest level with Mark Rutte to see what efforts they can make with our technical services and with the relevant ministers in order to find solutions as quickly as possible. However, that is not an alternative. It is an additional measure to increase the chances of finding solutions in the short, medium and long term. Another point concerns energy efficiency and some are sensitive here. Translating the Directive as quickly as possible is one of the commitments. And this concerns not only the federal state but also the local authorities and the regions. Supply flexibility needs to be increased; an energy transition fund needs to be set up; effective competition between producers needs to be encouraged; storage needs to be worked on. This will not be a short-term solution, but we need to work really, with the mandate that has been given, on storage. That will not be easy, because there are certain plowings in our country, too, politically. We must consult the Länder in order to achieve an energy pact, a vision of the future of our energy. The federal government has given the minister a clear mandate for this. I just want to tell you the government's commitment, unambiguously, to working in transparency and objectivity. I also want to tell you the government's commitment to avoid inaccuracies and misunderstandings in the communication and to ensure that all documents that are legally available to the public and parliamentarians are made available. As the Minister of Safety said, a few hours ago in committee, I want to make my own commitment - and that is the government's full commitment - to also work on nuclear safety and security. This is obviously an extremely important point. For this reason, the opinions of the AFCN are also very important, which will have to be taken into account. Mr Nollet, another important point concerns a contract for the future. As I understand it, you are not talking about a contract for the past, but about the future. In that respect, I respect your point of interest for one hundred percent. We must, of course, do everything we can, and this is a push for the government to defend the interests of our citizens during such negotiations. That is not an easy discussion and it will not be easy negotiations, as everyone knows, and you accept it. However, I have the impression that you form your opinion on the basis of an intention process. Why the idea of a trial of intent? Because as we speak, we have not finalized negotiations. We know that it will be necessary, in the weeks and months ahead, to conclude a negotiation with an interlocutor. We also know that we will have to provide Parliament with all the information on the progress and outcome of the negotiations. Your inquiry draws my attention to one important point: we will have to avoid a significant financial risk on the shoulders of the state. This is obviously a very important issue of concern. But at the same time – you're not naive, neither am I, I try not to be too naive – I know that a private operator, before making an investment of 700 million euros, will think about stability and legal certainty. The case is not closed and it will continue in the weeks and months to come. I want to repeat this: this extension of Doel 1 and Doel 2 is one of the paths among other commitments that we are trying to take to increase capacity and security of supply. Every megawatt is important. We want to commit ourselves to that. I'll make it up to you. I would like to thank you for the sobriety and serenity of the exchanges. I can see that in committee there has probably been passion and expressions of temperament on both sides. It is important for us to look to the future. We want a government that has the political will to take responsibility, both with regard to our socio-economic model, to the security of our citizens, to the reform of justice, and with regard to this important issue for the future, particularly energy policy. This matter is important for the purchasing power of our citizens, for the competitiveness of our businesses, and it is very important for the security of our citizens. We will do our best to find lasting solutions over the next few weeks and months, with respect for each other and for the different opinions in this assembly. We will do our utmost to find solutions for the future. We maintain and ensure the full mobilization and cohesion of the government to deliver the program to ensure security of supply and to chart sustainable, serious energy prospects, with the will to ensure security and safety for everyone as well. Thank you for your attention and thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-28-54-plenair-ip048x.u17	Prime Minister, I would like to join you in one area, that of serenity. We have claimed serenity in this debate for forty hours. We never got it! How we have never achieved transparency! When you say that all the information must be communicated to Parliament, you did not follow the debate for three weeks! You could have said it before. You could have called your minister to order more quickly. Today, not a word about your minister's attitude. You therefore believe that his attitude was correct and responsible to the committee. Today, it is the whole government that I consider to be incorrect and irresponsible. He has an attitude of non-transparency before this Parliament. As far as the advice of the Council of State is concerned, what a pirouette you are, Prime Minister! To say that some ministers did not respect other opinions of the Council of State. Of course, we've seen it in dozens and dozens of laws that we've passed. Except that they justified it and amended their bill, which was not done here. You doubted this bill so much that you tested an amendment. You tested the retroactivity. All legal opinions are against the minister's retroactivity! Totally against! The Council of State - two urgent opinions on four words, eleven pages of opinion - says that you are putting yourself at a disadvantage in relation to Europe and international conventions. It's not nothing for a country when it comes to nuclear power! That is not one opinion among others. They are not counselors among others. These are two opinions of the Council of State and an opinion of the Federal Nuclear Control Agency that your project is lame and that it will cause legal uncertainty for the sector. And you compare that with a minister's legal opinion. I find that very light for this government, Prime Minister. We have seen a grievous spectacle here because you do not show lucidity or responsibility. If you were lucid, you would withdraw this bill, you would rework this bill, and you would not bring our whole country to nuclear power. We know that you are driving him towards nuclear power and only towards nuclear power. When you say that no government has managed to take a global position, that is not true. The previous government of which you were a member has presented a comprehensive solution which has been developed, endorsed by this whole parliament and which was credible in relation to all the alternatives proposed. It is therefore a choice that you are making today: the choice of nuclear power, the monopoly of Electrabel. You are directing our country to insecurity of supply and to insecurity of citizens. I recall what has been said: there will be no international control until Doel 1 is reopened, there will be no public investigation or environmental impact investigation. You are stubborn with this bill rather than taking your responsibilities by removing it and analyzing all the alternatives proposed outside it. By taking this bill, you are giving the sector the following signal: "We believe in nuclear power and will continue to believe in nuclear power on a sustainable basis, also after 2025 because we will not be able to get out of nuclear power. Do not invest in renewable energy or other energy sources." That's what you're giving as a signal, in insecurity for the sector. Prime Minister, I therefore table a motion signed also by other opposition parties to request the outright withdrawal of this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-28-54-plenair-ip048x.u18	Prime Minister, would I dare say: at last a turning point in this matter? Here's a real plea for transparency and clarity. Admit that, as parliamentarians, we have been annoyed by this involuntarily attitude regarding these hidden, untransmitted or caviared opinions of past committees. You plead for honesty in the case. It was time that everything was available to parliamentarians so that they could analyse things clearly. On the other hand, I have heard you agree to examine alternatives to nuclear energy in a precise and clear manner, and we will also commit ourselves to that, in order to ensure security of supply for the coming winter and subsequent winters, while taking no risk to the safety of citizens. You said it was time. It should be remembered that procedures exist, that they are in progress, and that it is time to implement them, including those which will have to take place in consultation with the citizens. You mentioned the fact that law was not an exact science, but here we are dealing with the exact sciences in technology. In the nuclear, in the atom, there are parameters to be respected. We are committed to them in the context of nuclear security. What a contrast, Prime Minister, between your response here in plenary session and the attitude of the Minister of Energy. My group has signed my colleague's motion to withdraw this bill. I think he's, as they say in our house, "bad-assed." We must return to something more serious and calmer. I also put in the hands of the President another more comprehensive motion concerning other requests for cracks at Doel 1 and Doel 2. This motion also calls for recognition of a number of legal situations and situations related to procurement and compliance with international conventions. This, Prime Minister, is what I wanted to reply to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-28-54-plenair-ip048x.u19	Prime Minister, you called for serenity and transparency and we applauded you with good heart. I hope that the message will be sent to your government colleague. I think she has heard it and this message is indeed important for the rest of the work. Because this case is far from over! I agree with you: it is not an easy file, but it is an essential file, it is a vital file. In the rest of the file, I will remind you of your words: "serenity" and "transparency", because we are not done with this dossier. With regard to the Council of State, your assertions are not correct on three points. First of all, it is not three times but four times that I invite you to review these opinions and compare them with the opinions that the minister has received. I also invite you to take note of the changes that are made regularly when the Council of State makes criticisms. At no time, in the case before us, did the minister consider it appropriate to make an amendment. There has been a draft amendment and it has explained the difference. This means that the problem is recognized. Today, the situation described by the Council of State is clear: the text, if not amended, goes straight into the wall. But for the time being, and contrary to the four examples you are quoting, no amendments have been proposed, no amendments have been incorporated. And most importantly, Prime Minister, the opinions of the Council of State have never been hidden. It was necessary to learn, at the turn of an interview, that a notice existed and the minister was forced to pass it on to us. These are important differences in the history of the debates, even if they go beyond this assembly. I'd like to go back to your opening. Madam Minister, I now turn to you. After these weeks of passionate conflict, to take up the Prime Minister's remarks, I hope that you will confirm this opening and that the current discussions will now involve Mr Woitrin. Thanks to the Chair, whom I thank, we have received a copy of this recommended letter – recommended, because he has not yet received a reply from you, nor has he received an acknowledgement of receipt or an invitation to debate. The opening of the Prime Minister means, in my view, that you must invite Mr. Woitrin to these debates. Having said that, Prime Minister, I must correct one element of your intervention. You say, "This trail is complementary." Technically, that's not correct. Mr Woitrin writes in his letter, but I understand that you did not have time to read it, "so that it can be implemented in the short term – and that is what differentiates it from the Brabo 1 project – we must respect the timetable and reality of the closure of Doel 1". At the very least, this plant must be closed so that these lines can be used. You have, on the one hand, the 433 megawatts of Doel 1 and, on the other hand, 1,000 megawatts that can come from the Netherlands. In principle, in such a situation, you do not hesitate! You have brought an element of information to the rostrum. I want to talk about your meeting in Riga with your Dutch counterpart. It's something fundamental. Do you think it is normal that the minister did not tell us about this in committee despite our sixty hours of debate? And we are at the heart of the work on another solution. I assume that this meeting made it possible to associate your Luxembourg counterpart with your reflection. He was not there, and we can understand him because of a recent event in his private life. Nevertheless, his position also matters. It seems to me that you must hear his fear of our power plants.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-28-54-plenair-ip048x.u20	Mr Nollet, I will give the floor to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-28-54-plenair-ip048x.u21	I would very briefly like to point out two things to you in order to remain in this serene logic. First of all, on the Netherlands, I said it and I persist: I think we must consider all the avenues, including with the Netherlands, and indeed with other neighbouring countries. You are aware that the Netherlands has also become importers, they also have concerns. It is not just a question of saying that a capacity of X megawatts could mechanically slide. It's a little more complex than that. You will have the opportunity, in committee, to go back in detail on the avenues for a solution, alongside the bill that is being debated and that will still have to be discussed in plenary. Second point: the meeting in Riga took place on Friday. The colleague from Luxembourg was absent. To be precise, I can confirm that Mark Rutte and I have made a commitment to organize meetings at ministerial and technical level to analyse all options in order to strengthen each other in the debate in the short, medium and long term. But one of the concerns is timing: what will be possible for next winter? This is a point that we will not be able to ignore, neither the opposition nor the majority.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-28-54-plenair-ip048x.u22	It is in this sense that the Woitrin track is interesting because it allows, for next winter, to bring an additional 1,000 megawatts. On the other hand, you say that each country is an importer. Each country is an importer and exporter. This is an interconnected market. Every country imports and exports. But let us be clear: the difference is that the Netherlands is not a net importer. They're overcapacity. I understand you didn't have time to read all the auditions, that makes sense. Elia told us that next year, an additional 3,000 megawatts would be opened in the Netherlands. Even at peak times of consumption, they are at 200% energy consumption. It's now that it's happening. I'm finishing with the convention. Negotiation is not easy, you say, and you are right. Negotiation is not easy, but you have put Electrabel in a position of strength. That's the reality. Today, particularly because of the legal fragility of the text – but we will see what will happen by the time of the plenary session – you have not dared to give the guarantee we want, that there will be no repayment clause. You say it's a point of attention. But that is not enough! It is a point of attention, necessarily, since Electrabel is interested: it is a point for their attention. Today, we ask you to protect the citizens; to protect your budget, but behind it, there is the citizens, of a possible reimbursement to Electrabel if the text was subsequently the subject of a decision to annul it in court. We did not have this commitment today. Work is continuing. We will have the discussions in plenary. I hope that you will be able to return clearly to this point and be much more – to use your terms – transparent about your willingness to get this clause in the negotiations.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-28-54-plenair-ip048x.u23	Prime Minister, you have learned a great deal in the eight months you have been Prime Minister. After all, you now also master the art of answering without saying anything. It is a pity, however, that you did not reply. You are right that a government can always decide not to follow the advice of the Council of State. There's nothing wrong with that, because it's just advice for that. However, I shall continue to do so. First of all, I will look at the content. We have not seen it so often that two such strong opinions have been issued, as well as the FANC's opinion. We have received no opinion other than the opinion drawn up for a specific purpose. I give the argument of the opposing party, which states that there is no need for a new permit, since we already had a permit. Moreover, the law governing the exit has done nothing anymore, it is said: 'Un simple volet d'exploitation a été gelé'. So we are dealing with a nuclear power plant that is supposed to produce electricity, but the only thing that is no longer allowed is to produce electricity. I guess everything else is okay. But what's the rest of it? Is this about growing exotic fish, like in Doel? This means that electricity must no longer be produced. That's like telling a butcher that he can't sell meat anymore despite his license as a hack. In addition, the previous government clarified why these specific provisions were provided for in the law. After all, the previous government feared difficult interpretations whereby setting a deadline for the authorisation would mean that there would be nothing left. It goes without saying that this cannot be the correct interpretation of the article. It is clear that the nuclear operator's obligations with regard to nuclear reactors do not fade out, because safety needs to be ensured. Therefore, the obligation to store the nuclear waste and the like remains. So now that we are saying that the licence has not been fully issued and that we are simply not allowed to produce electricity, we have got rid of it. No one actually believes that statement. Secondly, you are taking a risk, and that is the essence. Elia himself says not to need Target 1 in winter. By taking that risk, you will not allow other slopes, such as imports. Let's say that the draft law, which seeks to open Objective 1 and the FANC takes the decision. If that decision of the FANC is challenged before the Council of State and the Council of State agrees with the complainants, then you have taken that risk with your government and you are responsible with your government that there is no alternative if Objective 1 does not finally open. You don't even have to take that risk today, because Elijah himself says you don't need Objective 1, which gives you time to look for alternatives. Even the option to keep Objective 1 open, but at a time when Elijah considers it necessary and with respect for the established procedures, remains.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-28-54-plenair-ip048x.u24	Prime Minister, if I understand correctly, you are completely covering your minister. In your opinion, there was no real problem. As far as the transmission of information to Parliament is concerned, you have talked about small omissions or even small omissions. I'm surprised. I had expected more transparent debates over the last three, four weeks, on the reasons why we have been forgotten to pass on important documents to us for the democratic debate. There is one observation with which I agree with you: when you explain that the previous governments of these ten, fifteen, twenty years – we go back a long way – have found no solution in the short, medium and long term on the question of our country's energy supply. That is the problem we are discussing here. This is the problem that a minister has had to play not only with legal certainty but also with nuclear security, which is an exact science. That is why we have this dependence on a sector that is structuring for the lives of our citizens, a sector as structuring as the banking sector. They are systemic sectors of our economy. When a biscuits factory goes bankrupt, when it mishandles its business, it only concerns that biscuits factory. We are talking here about an area that influences our everyday lives, our consumption, our work. This sector is in the hands of a company in Belgium! That is why all successive governments are failing because every six months we go to Mr Mestrallet de GDF Suez to ask him to invest in other energy sectors, even by offering him subsidies to do so. What does he say? "Bring the money first; I'll put it in my pocket and then we'll see what we can do!" That's exactly what Electrabel does every time the government finds him. We are thinking here of finding solutions by going to other countries for energy, but the problem is that these other countries are as dependent on these same multinationals as we are! Between 1995 and 2012, 243 mergers of energy companies in Europe led to the hyper dominance of seven big sisters, seven energy companies that control the entire European energy market. Seven companies! Not one more! EDF, GDF, EON, Winterfall ... Seven companies control our entire energy sector. We, the power of the nation, depend docilely on these companies for our energy security. This type of behaviour, this type of blackmail not only with regard to politics but also with regard to all our citizens, as a left-wing party, I cannot accept it. I ask that the government urgently consider the possibility that the nation's entire power will once again have control over this important sector. Let us remember that in 2008, a few bankers exposed public and private economies to risky markets and this led us to an economic crisis. Billions of euros have disappeared. Billions of euros have been taken back from the world of work because of this crisis. Today, we are all faced with the blackmail of a company like Electrabel. I ask the government to break with this logic. The government cannot allow the full production of electricity to depend on seven large sister companies in Europe, which supply the whole of the European market today. So my question is simple. I, too, will table a motion, which I submit to the Chair. I ask that the control of the Electrabel lobby end in this government. I'm asking for an analysis from the minister's office to determine who all the ex-Electrabels are. On the other hand, I am pleased to have tabled a joint motion with the opposition as a whole. We call for the withdrawal of this project. It is wise to withdraw it in view of the depth of the discussions we have had. Because the profits of one multinational, because all these data are no more important than what we are responsible for today, namely for the energy supply of all our citizens and for the nuclear safety of our citizens, I propose that this draft be withdrawn and that we debate on a different basis. (...): (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-28-54-plenair-ip048x.u25	Does it fit, Mr. Ducarme? May I make my speech? Mr President, if the members of the majority are as vigilant and alert as they are when it comes to their own ministers as when it comes to the opposition, we could, for example, take a whole step forward in this dossier. So, Prime Minister, from today on, we know that it is perfectly possible to be a member of the Michel Government and to lie to Parliament. It's okay, and it's okay. Apparently that is tolerated, particularly by the Prime Minister, and I regret that. All those beautiful words like "serenity," "constructive" and "openness" with all due respect, but that's blabla. We have all been told that in committee. We arrived there with a stack of documents after having gone into opinions, amendments and so on, and the Minister took words such as'serenity', 'constructive' and 'openness' in the mouth, but at the same time she was lying to us, representatives of the people. I do not like it and I deeply regret, Prime Minister, that you do not have the courage in any way to distance yourself from it. That doesn't make you a strong leader of this country. Mr Chastel has had that courage as party chairman, not you today. This debate will undoubtedly be continued, but I would like to quote three more elements. First of all, ladies and gentlemen, I note that the Prime Minister does not want to guarantee that the convention will not include compensation for Electrabel and for the EUR 700 million in investment. You mention this as a point of attention, Prime Minister, but we are asking for a guarantee. If you say you want to give that guarantee, please, say so, so that we know at this stage. Will you give that guarantee that there will be no compensation, that the taxpayer will not pay for the Minister's legal gibberish? Do you want to give that guarantee today, yes or no? You're shaking your head in denial, but you just said it's a focus. I therefore note that you do not wish to give that guarantee, which is duly noted. So it is quite possible that the taxpayer will pay for the fact that Mrs Marghem is persevering in anger. Secondly, it is not one opinion from the Council of State, there were two. The first opinion was drawn up in February. There could have been a public investigation if we had done what we had to do from the very first moment on. In addition to the opinions of the Council of State, there are also those of the FANC, of Stibbe, of Janson. It's not just about the opposition and Greenpeace. Only the Minister is convinced of her right. That's a problem. However, there is nothing wrong with saying that people learn things and that they will adapt them. However, the Minister perseveres in anger. Thirdly, you say you want to explore the alternative slope of Woitrin, the slope of the enhanced interconnection. However, this is not compatible with Objective 1. That's conscience, read the reports. Take that file with more seriousness and credibility! I end my reply in the same way as my question. Prime Minister, I invited you to be clear, but you did not. You are taking an incredible risk in terms of supply by saying that you hope and speculate that Objective 1 and Objective 2 will be open. It's been noted. You are taking a very big political risk, and you will find our group on your path every day, every week, serene, open and constructive, with the figures, if you are apparently not Prime Minister post-Doel. It's been noted.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-28-54-plenair-ip048x.u26	In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. A first motion for a recommendation was tabled by Ms Karine Lalieux and MM. Raoul Hedebouw and Johan Vande Lanotte are worded as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiries by Mrs Karine Lalieux and Mr M. Michel de Lamotte, Jean-Marc Nollet, Johan Vande Lanotte, Raoul Hedebouw and Kristof Calvo and the Prime Minister's response, asks the government to withdraw the project on the extension of the Doel 1 and Doel 2 nuclear power plants (No. 967/001) "draft law on energy security provisions". A first motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Karine Lalieux and by Mr Raoul Hedebouw and Mr Johan Vande Lanotte and reads as follows: "The Chamber, Mr Michel de Lamotte, Mr Jean-Marc Nollet, Mr Johan Vande Lanotte, Mr Raoul Hedebouw and Mr Kristof Calvo and the Prime Minister's reply, calls on the Government The draft law on the extension of the life of nuclear reactors Objective 1 and Objective 2, entitled the draft law laying down provisions on security of supply in the field of energy (Parl. Doc. No 0967/001), to be repealed.' A second motion for recommendation was tabled by Ms Catherine Fonck and Ms Isabelle Poncelet and Mr. Christian Brotcorne, Georges Dallemagne, Michel de Lamotte, Francis Delperée and Benoît Dispa and is worded as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiries by Mrs Karine Lalieux and Mr M. Michel de Lamotte, Jean-Marc Nollet, Johan Vande Lanotte, Raoul Hedebouw and Kristof Calvo and the Prime Minister's response, recommends to the Government - to ensure a maximum level of nuclear safety; - to ensure that an International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) Salto mission can take place before the 10-year extension of the Doel 1 and 2 nuclear reactors. The AFCN and Electrabel recognize in several published documents in tempore non suspectola the need for such control before the extension of the lifespan. It is essential that the ALEA, which is an international and recognized authority, carry out this control before Doel 1 is restarted and Doel 2 is extended. The Government cannot compromise on nuclear safety; - to ensure, as required by the AFCN, that priority modifications to Doel 1 and 2 facilities take place before the operation is approved beyond the dates provided for in the current Act; - the AFCN conducts micro-crack tests prior to any decision on a possible reopening and extension; - to recognize that Doel 1 has been deactivated since 15 February 2015 and has therefore ceased at least one of its activities within the meaning of Article 17 of the GRPRI and requires a new operating authorisation; - to carry out an impact assessment and an environmental study in compliance with the Aarhus and Espoo International Conventions, as underlined in the opinion of the Council of State; - to take the necessary common-sense decisions to offer credible energy alternatives for the coming winter and for the long term throughout the territory; - to recognise that the draft law on energy security provisions does not ensure security of supply for the coming winter; - that the Prime Minister personally manage this issue and that alternative avenues for nuclear extension be urgently examined to ensure security of supply next winter." A second motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Catherine Fonck and Mrs Isabelle Poncelet and Mr Christian Brotcorne, Georges Dallemagne, Michel de Lamotte, Francis Delperée en Benoît Dispa en luidt als volgt: "The Chamber, Mr Michel de Lamotte, Mr Jean-Marc Nollet, Mr Johan Vande Lanotte, Mr Raoul Hedebouw and Mr Kristof Calvo and the Prime Minister's reply, calls on the Government - ensure a maximum level of nuclear safety, - ensure that a SALTO study by the International Atomic Energy Agency (EEE) is carried out before the lifetime of the nuclear reactors Objectives 1 and 2 is extended by 10 years. The FANC and Electrabel have indicated in various documents published in a non-suspecto manner that such a check is necessary before a decision is taken on the longer operation of the reactors. It is essential that the IAEA, an internationally recognised authority, carry out control before a decision is taken to restart Objective 1 and to keep Objective 2 open for longer. The government cannot and cannot compromise on nuclear safety; - ensure that, as required by the FANC, the main adjustments to the Objective 1 and 2 installations are carried out before they are approved to keep them in operation until after the dates laid down in the current law; - ensure that the FANC carries out the necessary tests to detect micro-fractures before any decision is taken on a possible reboot and lifetime extension; - recognise that Objective 1 has been inoperative since 15 February 2015, i.e. has ceased at least one of its activities within the meaning of Article 17 of the ARBIS and therefore has to have a new operating licence; - carry out an impact study and environmental study in accordance with the International Århus and Espoo Conventions, as highlighted in the opinion of the Council of State; - to take the necessary decisions with common sense, so that there will be credible alternatives in terms of energy this winter and also in the long term throughout the territory; - recognize that the draft law laying down provisions on security of supply in the field of energy does not make it possible to guarantee security of supply this winter; - to make sure that the Prime Minister takes this matter personally and to examine as soon as possible the alternatives for postponing the nuclear exit in order to ensure security of energy supply this winter. A simple motion was tabled by Messrs. Patrick Dewael, Denis Ducarme, Servais Verherstraeten et Hendrik Vuye. A simple motion was tabled by Mr Patrick Dewael, Mr Denis Ducarme, Mr Servais Verherstraeten and Mr Hendrik Vuye. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-28-54-plenair-ip048x.u27	Mr President, Prime Minister, who should we believe, who should we follow in the area of tax reform? Should we follow you and your party president, Mr Chastel? You're talking about getting polluters, speculators or fraudsters to contribute. This is potentially interesting in the context of tax reform. Should we follow the CD&V, Mr. Beke or Mr. Van Rompuy? They say that fiscal reform must be fiscally neutral and capital gains must be taxed, which would only make sense. Should we follow them or should we follow the mayor of Antwerp, who is absent today, as usual? He says it's important not to change anything because he's got everything he's wanted so far. He said that there should be no contribution from capital or action on pollution. Prime Minister, will there be, yes or no, tax reform? With what budget ambition, in what time frame? Will it be green, with an impact on pollution? Will it be fair, with a contribution from those who have more means? Will it be economically effective? Will it be a tax shift or a tax pshit? Today, we may have doubts about your collective will to move towards something just and lasting in this area. Today's the Tax Justice Day. I add to these concerns the question of the effectiveness of the fight against tax fraud in your government. We have not been able to hold the debate on Mrs Sleur's 'non-balance sheet'. We will hold the debate in a few weeks on diamond and Cayman taxes, which are mainly gifts to speculators and cheap impunity! Above all, I would like to ask you about the future of OECDFO, this judicial body essential in the fight against tax fraud, which your Minister of the Interior wants to dismantle. Are you in favour of this dismantling? Will you resist the dismantling of one of the main tools for combating fraud and financial crime in our country?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-28-54-plenair-ip048x.u28	Prime Minister, you have just received applause from the opposition. I'll ask you a gift question today. First of all, it's Tax Justice Day today. You will be aware that that day will be organised for the fifth time. Let me list the organizers. These are ABVV, ACLVB and ACV, the three major trade unions, Attac Vlaanderen, the Bond Beter Leefmilieu, FAIRFIN, KWB, LBC, LEF, the Masereelfonds, Oxfam-Solidarity and 11.11.11. Today, civil society is organising Tax Justice Day with just one message. That message is: fair taxes, a tax shift, a shift to less labour charges and a shift to more wealth taxes. Secondly, you have undoubtedly read the De Morgen newspaper today. In it hundreds of your officials and our officials, so people who know what they are talking about, call for a tax shift and a capital tax. A third point, which I would like to give you, and which may please you the most, is that the OECD top man, Mr Pascal Saint-Amans, said yesterday 27 May 2015 in an interview: "Belgium is exceptional'. You don't tax capital and your overloaded labor. So you have to review that." That's what the OECD says. Prime Minister, I know that we have heard De Wever, who has said his taboos. We have heard Rutten, who has said her taboos. We have heard the Voka saying through Mr Libeer that there is no need for a tax shift. Today you have an excellent opportunity to give everyone outside the present government fair taxes, and who is asking for the shift to reduce the burden on labour and to increase the burden on capital, that you agree with them.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-28-54-plenair-ip048x.u29	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as I have said on several occasions, this government has two important objectives which we are trying to pursue in parallel. We have a huge responsibility for the future, namely the reorganisation of our public finances. Today we want to pay today's invoices, which is a first commitment. This is important at European level, which is a question of credibility for our country and of strengthening our economy. It is an important key for social protection in the following years, for the payment of pensions and health care. There is therefore a restructuring process, which of course is not evident. We carried out budgetary control a few weeks ago and it will be debated in Parliament, that is logical, that is democracy. In parallel with the efforts we have to make to put our public finances in order, we want to implement fiscal reform and a tax shift. We started in the initial budget with a difference of EUR 2.8 billion, which is a considerable amount. We have the political will to make efforts, firstly for the purchasing power of the workers, secondly for the purchasing power of those who do not work through the welfare envelope and, thirdly, for competitiveness, for which the first measures have been implemented and are being implemented. Is that enough? No, we don't think that's enough. Do the four parties want to do better and more? Yeah, we want to do better and more. We will do so, while at the same time paying attention to the reorganisation we want to remain on the right track for the reorganisation of our public finances, with an objective in 2018, and also the Länder have committed themselves to a fiscal reform. The latter should strengthen competitiveness and support job creation, paying attention to the purchasing power of workers with low or medium wages and non-workers. The commitment on the timetable is extremely clear. There is no discordant voice in this regard. We want to work, and we are working, with the aim of reaching an agreement before the summer, around the end of the parliamentary session. Indeed, there are three possible sources to succeed in reducing taxes on work and on those who create jobs. These issues are linked, as you know, to consumption, the environment and the income of capital. I don't reveal a scoop by telling you. We will continue to work very calmly in this direction. I may disappoint you, but I understand that the four formations that make up the government are not destabilized by the systematic attempts to divide them. Our determination to succeed is complete. How successful we have been in ensuring that the social agreements come to fruition in the Group of 10 and that they are implemented, as we have managed to put in place budgetary control during Easter holidays! Similarly, we will be able to maintain budgetary order and undertake fair and fair tax reform, but with economic meaning and job creation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-28-54-plenair-ip048x.u30	Prime Minister, members of your government do not need the opposition to show their differences. It was enough to read the newspapers of last weekend or to consult the blog of the Chairman of the Finance Committee who wrote: -Michel moet de leiding nemen van deze operatie en bewijzen dat hij de chef is van deze regering. It was extremely clear in its development by regretting the differences of opinion within the Government. You've been trying to make it look like there's been a tax shift in the last few months, but you don't have to call the operations you've done that way. What you've done is an index jump, it's measures against the insured. You have not carried out any tax reform, as provided for in your programme, which would promote employment, combat pollution and contribute capital income. There is an extraordinary imbalance in this country. I also note that you did not answer my specific question, which was contained in the document I sent this morning to allow you to prepare it, on the future of OECDFO and other tools to combat tax fraud. I ask from the government and from you – if you want to give a further response with the President's agreement, I would thank you – a clear position on this, otherwise we cannot believe in the honesty of your intentions in the fight against tax fraud.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-28-54-plenair-ip048x.u31	You're right. I didn't answer. I want to be very clear. First, no formal decision has been taken. Secondly, there is a 2014 law on the optimisation of the police that instructs the services to make proposals to the government. In fact, preparatory work is under way. I wanted and suggested that the two ministers concerned, the Minister of Justice and the Minister of the Interior, should be able to carry out the various consultations. In no case, not even in the preparatory work, we cannot – as you did – talk about dismantling, but perhaps we can talk about another organization of the means available. It is not a question of shrinking existing resources but of seeing how we can better use the means by taking into account not a political decision imposed from above but a decision on the basis of preparatory work, carried out under the Police Function Act 2004 and which gives responsibility to our officials, to the security of the government, who will then decide with full knowledge of the matter. No dismantling, on the contrary, a determination to make better use of the means available to combat all forms of crime, including that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-28-54-plenair-ip048x.u32	Prime Minister, thank you for the additional information that I take note of. It is very different from what your Minister of the Interior said ten days ago, which announced the dismantling of the OECDFO. I note that there is an inflection in the government's policy in this area. I'll ask you again about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-28-54-plenair-ip048x.u33	Prime Minister, you missed an opportunity, but I think you also miss the essence of the story. The essence is honesty. Are the measures taken by the government fair? You say that two objectives are important for the government: the competitiveness of businesses and fair taxation. I can support these objectives. However, the government has decided to pay the competitiveness via the index jump. The competitiveness is therefore paid for by people who work and people who unfortunately cannot work anymore. That's not fair. We are also looking forward to the decisions on so-called fair taxes. However, the tax shift, on which we have been waiting for more than six months, is still not there, but the carat tax. You have approved the carat tax, a gift to the diamondaires. So in two important matters you have made decisions, which are not fair to the people outside. We regret this, and we will continue to challenge it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-28-54-plenair-ip048x.u34	Minister, this morning we in our country were faced with the seventh strike in seven months. The rail strike that is taking place today is one in public transport and will be discussed in this plenary session in the light of other questions put by fellow Members. We note that there is a growing situation in which those who want to go to work and simply do their job are faced with obstacles. They cannot go to work by a small group that may or may not abuse or use the right to strike. This morning there was 378 kilometers of traffic on our roads. Everyone was confronted by that action, because the travelers did not know if their train would run. Minister, on 11 December 2014 I asked you here in plenary about the right to strike. I asked you whether it was not necessary to better frame this in our country. There is no framework for this in our country. You then referred to the men's agreement of 2002, which you yourself, in a different capacity, negotiated with. You drew it, too. Provided it is not so accessible, the document is found to be effective on the internet. I checked the report from the meeting. You referred to it literally and you say: "The workers' organisations will make a solemn recommendation to their members to ensure that the working instrument is safeguarded." If you want this, you have to be able to work. For the action that would follow the following week, you said that you would ensure that that recommendation was respected. Afterwards, it became clear that companies and business sites were again occupied and that people could not go to work. The gentlemen's agreement thus appears to exist in a way only on paper and not to be respected. An evaluation of that document was planned at the end of 2010. He's still not here. Will you urge the social partners to review the gentlemen's agreement in the short term?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-28-54-plenair-ip048x.u35	Mr Lachaert, everyone regrets the action today at SNCB. Many people have not been able to get to work or have not been able to use the train. It is an action by SNCB and I would like to stress that it is an action by a trade union which is not part of the recognised, representative, interprofessional trade unions. We must be clear, Mr Lachaert, because if I am not mistaken, you argued for more democracy in the social elections some time ago. This is about a very small group that unfortunately for a large part shuts down train traffic. I would like to stress once again that this is about the public sector and about a small group, which again shows how important it is for us to conclude agreements with the representative interprofessional trade unions. As far as the gentlemen's agreement is concerned, you could have asked me, because I would have liked to have given it to you. It dates back to 2002, and it was an important step with a number of agreements to settle collective disputes. I insist that it is very important for the social partners themselves to conclude agreements on this matter and to comply with them. I believe that the gentlemen's agreement is still a very good agreement and that we can check whether this is in line with current European and international case law. I have asked my services to do so, on the basis of the recent case law of the European Court of Justice in Luxembourg, which clearly states that there must be a proportionality between the right to strike and the right to work and the free movement of persons; this proportionality is very important and must be respected. There is also the European Social Rights Committee, which says, especially in relation to Belgium, that there is no need for a formal law in this area. The case law must be respected by both employers and employees. I am prepared to review that agreement in order to see whether it passes the test with European and international justice. I am convinced that we can prevent strikes by concluding agreements and by making the most of the social partners. The gentlemen's agreement is still a very good and sound basis for this.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-28-54-plenair-ip048x.u36	Mr President, Minister, I am very pleased with many of your answers. It would be a pity for democracy, should we agree on everything; then it would be very boring here every day. We agree on the principles. You referred to European case law. The right to work must be weighed proportionally against the right to strike. Those are principles that need to be weighed up. The gentlemen's agreement contains some vague passages on this subject, but it is not very concrete. That evaluation has been announced for years. I understand that you will support it and ask the social partners for it. In the short term, let the social partners carry out an evaluation of the existing rules. After all, we find that in the case of social measures, the unemployed do not come to the workplace. We can no longer accept this hostage situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-28-54-plenair-ip048x.u37	Mr President, ministers, ladies and gentlemen, are there many people convicted by the courts in Belgium who are recidivism? Is prison a place where you don't reoffend when you get out of it or, on the contrary, do you often return to it? Do alternative penalties, the electronic bracelet, the suspension allow more or less recidivism? A recent study published later this month sheds light on these phenomena. Although it is incomplete because all the information was not available, this study nevertheless makes it possible to draw a line of strength. The main reason is that 57 per cent of convicted persons are recidivism, which is a particularly important figure. The short speaking time allocated to us allows me to give two thoughts at this stage. The first has already been done in the Committee on Justice: alas, it is the flagrant failure of the computerisation of justice. Of course, you have nothing to do with it. A collective responsibility of the past must be assumed. On the other hand, there is an obligation to finally succeed in this great computerization of justice. The aspect of this data bank is undoubtedly an essential element. The second thought is as follows. In Belgium, we are recidivism too and too often. This study, even partial, defines some types of offences that are the object or not of recidivism. It is quite interesting to note that driving offences are among the offences with the highest rates of recidivism. Why? Is it simply related to the sanction that is attached to the offence? This inevitably deserves a deepening of the issue. I have no doubt that you share this view – the government is working on it as it appears in its general policy statement – that a criminal policy cannot be based on intuition, impression, emotion, or simplism. Therefore, a real reflection of a revision of the Penal Code inevitably reflects a vision of the future, but also on figures such as this database could provide them and constitute a particularly important tool for reflection, as well as a reflection on the profile and path of people who, unfortunately, recidivate. Indeed, what is recidivism? It's less secure, it's more backlog and prison population. Minister, what dynamics do you intend to drive the criminology studies in this country to found the work of the government and parliament? Do you intend to invest in a comprehensive database? I do not know if the Dutch model will inspire you; it is an updated monitoring every three months. Finally, on the eve of this reform of the Penal Code announced by the Government, what are the first lessons you learnt from this recent study and published?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-28-54-plenair-ip048x.u38	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we can be pleased with the study by the National Institute of Criminalism and Criminalology (INCC) on recidivism, which we missed a great deal. It is practically the first of its kind in Belgium. For flying over it, it already allows us to have interesting leads. The Chairman of the Justice Committee has just referred to this. There are many lessons to be learned, including the high rate of recidivism for different categories of offences. With respect to this topical issue, because it is not possible to address everything, I have limited myself to what relates to recidivism when the convictions examined resulted in prison sentences. I am surprised to learn that, when these sentences were taken, the recidivism rate is 70-73% within five years. It is rarely the same offences that are committed, except in the case of theft. A second thought that can be drawn from this study, Minister, is the way in which the speed of recidivism is pointed out. Within two years of leaving prison, most of those who reoffend have already done so. This takes place after four, five or even seven years. But it is also young people, the average age of repeat offenders, who call for a maximum of 32 to 35 years. I immediately put this study in parallel with that carried out by the Court of Auditors, three years ago, on prison overcrowding, pointing to the failure of our federal policies in this area over the last ten or fifteen years. I think that here we are also pointing out the failure of our sentencing policies. For years, we have only increased the level of sentences. The courts themselves are harsher in the way they condemn them, and it is realized that the fact of incarcerated people ultimately fails to achieve the desired result, as that is where the recidivism is 70 to 73 per cent within two years. Minister, it is important to set a course on how the accompaniment takes place in prison and on the scale of sentences. You promised us that you will work on it in your policy brief. Minister, how do you react to the study? Will the failure of our Belgian penal system and our prison system have an impact, an influence on your way of deepening and seeing things in your two pot-pourri 1 and pot-pourri 2 bills that are presented to us in your reform of the criminal procedure? Above all, are you going to devote budgets that are not planned today so that studies like these can be continued? The study recommends that we give ourselves the means to go further in order to better understand the phenomena.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-28-54-plenair-ip048x.u39	Mr President, Mr Goffin, Mr Brotcorn, it is true that we do not have enough figures to carry out a proper judicial and prison policy. I intend to invest more in this matter. The answer is positive. The number of people involved in the study was 136,000. Not all convicted persons were major criminals, as 70 per cent of those convicted had been convicted of driving offences. During the period followed by 18 years, 57.6 per cent of persons had a new conviction report. Of these, 50% occurred within 742 days of the reference bulletin, a little over two years. Seven hundred per cent of repeat offenders obtained at least two subsequent conviction ballots. A total of 405,781 new convictions were recorded together by repeat offenders. Although NCIC researchers themselves stated that the study was purely descriptive, some clear trends can be observed. Younger people in 1995 are more likely to have a later conviction report. The probability is higher also for those with the most history. The probability is lower for women than for men. You won't be surprised. Persons sentenced to imprisonment have a higher probability of being sentenced to a later form of conviction than others. What lessons should be learned for our future criminal policy? We can draw four broad lines from this. With a view to preparing the new Criminal Code, a method will be developed to ensure that only those offences considered to be truly punishable are still brought before the criminal judge. The penalty of deprivation of liberty should be reserved, as an ultimate remedy, for more serious offences. There is therefore a need to invest more in alternative sanctions. The study also shows that in general internees do not commit recidivism. Their place is not in prison. For medium security, it is necessary to find a place outside prison and, for high security or high risk, a very specific institution within prisons. Finally, with regard to prison policy, there is a need to invest more in action-oriented detention by focusing on reintegration programmes, so that the likelihood of recidivism of those who are imprisoned, which should be a minority, is further reduced.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-28-54-plenair-ip048x.u40	Mr President, having exceeded my speaking time by 59 seconds, I shall be very brief. First of all, I welcome your willingness to invest in a powerful IT tool. Secondly, I hear your willingness to work more on alternative penalties. Thirdly, I think that in the Committee on Justice we could do a useful work of reflection on the phenomenon of recidivism and on the profile of those who regrettably have to reoffend. Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-28-54-plenair-ip048x.u41	Minister, I am less satisfied with your answer. I thought you were going to give us the elements of the study, when we could get to know about it. In your project for a new justice, which you have presented to us in committee, the word "recidive" appears only once, in verb 119. However, with the study that we now have before us, this must become an essential and fundamental element of your prison policy. There is a real need for fewer inmates in the future – you are right to go in that direction – and for them to be supervised so that the sentence, in addition to its educational aspect, also serves as a prevention of recidivism and trains them when they leave. We must avoid the pains that go to the end, the people who no longer have a response from society. We really need budgetary resources, Minister, to carry out this accompaniment in prison. I've only been interested in the recidivism of people who get out of prison. Otherwise, you will never be able to fight it effectively.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-28-54-plenair-ip048x.u42	Mr Minister, I wanted to address a very interesting subject, especially as the press echoed last week's appeal to start-ups, whose number continues to grow. They encourage the initiative and contribute through their creativity and dynamism to provide new engines for our economy. They are also appreciated abroad. External investors are aware of our country's assets - its geographical location, its international role, etc. – and are also aware of its shortcomings, particularly in terms of comparative advantages with other countries in fiscal and social terms. Several start-ups have made some suggestions in the press. I remembered the government agreement and your general policy note in which several measures were mentioned. Can you tell us a little more?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-28-54-plenair-ip048x.u43	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-28-54-plenair-ip048x.u44	You're right, Mr. Frédéric.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-28-54-plenair-ip048x.u45	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this is indeed a very interesting article. I urge those who have not yet had time to read it. It deals with the experience of some start-ups installed in our country by addressing several positive elements. Indeed, the article is called Belgium, the promised land of start-ups. It includes a number of elements that underline the support of bodies, public instruments, private funds, for example for financing, but also a number of wishes for complementary support, so that these start-ups can achieve a number of their objectives. Among these findings, I draw your attention to various elements. Firstly, elements related to the modernization of labour law. One sentence in the government agreement calls for an assessment of a number of elements related to labour relations and labour law. The second element relates to the amounts involved in the funds, with a comparison with the rest of the world in which it is found that the sums mobilised for the formation of start-ups, starters or their growth are in general much larger. Thirdly, there is also a link to be made with regard to start-ups and larger or even multinational companies. There is a link to create and densify. The fourth element concerns administrative simplification. Companies still find it very difficult to deploy in this regard. The last element to be highlighted is the attractiveness of these start-ups for the staff working within them, especially from abroad. It therefore seems to me that there are a series of measures to be pursued and deployed, linked to funding. You are now aware of the new tax deduction measures to the IPP for amounts invested in startups and start-ups (45% and 30%), the new provisions to reduce the professional discount, crowd funding, whether in the form of capital contributions or in the form of loans. This is a project that we must continue. The testimony of these start-ups is not only the observation of a number of elements but is above all an invitation to pursue a number of comparative analyses of the work of our companies, and among them the smallest or the most new ones. It is also an invitation to define complementary measures step by step, in connection with the regional authorities, which, as we know, have competence in this area, but a will that must be consistent with our objectives, and vice versa.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-28-54-plenair-ip048x.u46	Minister, thank you. Indeed, that was something I had failed to say in my question, although I can see that the federal government is moving in the right direction. I would be happy to be able to support all these measures in the Committee on the Economy when they arrive. I would like to stress the link which will also be necessary for the Regions: universities and the possibilities of synergy are in any case avenues to be explored. I hope that the debate on this subject will be very constructive.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-28-54-plenair-ip048x.u47	Mr President, Minister, yesterday was a black day for Belgian aviation. Due to a power cut at Belgocontrol, Belgian airspace was shut down. Dozens of flights were cancelled. Forty thousand passengers couldn't leave. Some people spent the night at the airport. This really is a catastrophe for the travel sector in our country. In the event of a power failure, emergency generators normally have to take action, but Murphy's law is just at that time a severe power failure. The aviation sector is an important economic sector for our country and also a vital hub for mobility. According to Voka, the economic damage is estimated at EUR 13 million. It is therefore unacceptable, Madam Minister, that such a thing could happen, that passengers and airlines were taken hostage. This cannot be repeated for us. Air carriers have rightly reacted angry at the interruption of power and the closure of airspace for all aircraft. According to experts, this has never happened in Europe. It is particularly painful and regrettable that this has happened in Brussels, the capital of Europe. I do not think we can explain this to anyone in Europe. Madam Minister, there is specific legislation on critical infrastructure in our country. Airports are also included. It is the aviation inspection that must monitor all emergency procedures. You had an emergency meeting with the Belgocontrol summit last night, the airports and the airlines. What exactly went wrong with the emergency generators test? Is there malice, sabotage, human error? Is the airport's power supply legally recognised as a critical infrastructure? When was the last time the aviation inspection carried out an inspection of the installations and associated emergency procedures? You also asked Belgocontrol for an action plan. By when can we expect this action plan?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-28-54-plenair-ip048x.u48	Mr President, Madam Minister, yesterday we visited Melsbroek's military airport with a few colleagues from the Defence Committee, when the first Belga dispatches announced that air traffic would stop throughout Belgium. Since we were lucky enough to be surrounded by great aviation professionals, I obviously asked them about the matter. They were first surprised by the news from the parliamentarians and the Belga agency. They also explained to me that, in the event of a breakdown, a backup system was supposed to take over and that, in the event of an electrical problem, a generator had to start. They were also surprised at the duration of the breakdown as well as its geographical extent. I was more surprised this morning when I was told that the breakdown would have been caused by a rescue system, bewildered to learn that, in this country where, for months, we have been regularly told about possible power shortages, the rescue systems have not been tested. Minister, in your capacity as the appropriate minister, have you had the emergency systems tested, be they Belgocontrol or SNCB? As far as aviation policy is concerned, you will agree with me that what matters is safety. I would therefore like to know whether citizens and passengers have been put at risk by the breakdown. Who gave the order to stop air traffic? Is this a human error? Have any malicious acts been ruled out? This morning, I was also interlocked by reading your mouthpiece in the press. I would say to you, Madam Minister, that a minister is expected to take responsibility and concentrate his energy not on the media buzz; in this case, he should punch the table and demand from your government the 24 million that Belgocontrol should receive and of which there is no line in the budget.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-28-54-plenair-ip048x.u49	Mr President, Madam Minister, we still live in a very particular country. We are in a country where the rescue system, whose aim is to have no interruption in air traffic control, is responsible for the interruption of air traffic control. Still, it's quite special and challenging. This brings me to my first question: do you already have an analysis of the root causes and reasons for this interruption? Have you been able to take steps to ensure that this does not happen again? My second question relates to a debate that we are not going to avoid. We must be able to have the debate here. Of course, there is the question of the macro-causes that led to this problem in Belgium. We must, of course, talk about Belgocontrol's resources today to ensure the safety of our airspace. There is clearly a problem and I am not the only one to say this. Last week, the Court of Auditors was very clear about this: since 2010, Belgocontrol has suffered a structural funding deficit. The Court of Auditors notes that the 2015 budgetary adjustment does not include any appropriation to achieve the financing provided for in the management contract. That's what the Court of Auditors said here in Belgium last week. Take the CEO of Belgocontrol a week ago. He couldn't have known his words would be up to date today. What does Johan Decuyper say? The recruitments were low and hardly any investment has been made. This is no longer sustainable in order to continue to ensure safety. A week later, a problem with the safety dynamometer. The debate that we have today and on which I am asking you, Madam Minister, is the chronic underfunding of a public service as important as Belgocontrol. In eight years, the Belgocontrol budget will have decreased by 27%. You'll tell me it's the legacy of the past. I'll give it to you. The past government has achieved a budget reduction of 11 per cent. And this year, the current government is announcing a 16 per cent reduction. Minister, are you going to come back to this chronic underfunding of a public service as important as air traffic control?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-28-54-plenair-ip048x.u50	Mr President, Madam Minister, yesterday, early in the morning, I began to receive first messages of congratulations on the implementation of a new plan, the Galant plan. It is so true that some people wrote to me saying that they had received, a few days ago, the letter of two eminences MR, MM. Reynders and De Wolf, finally wishing them a quiet day without a plane. They had not yet had the proof of it, and all of a sudden. ... Of course, it was a very short promise. But we could have known that!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-28-54-plenair-ip048x.u51	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-28-54-plenair-ip048x.u52	More fundamentally, the cause, you will explain it to us. This remains a rather surprising case that, in a developed country, an institution of the importance of Belgocontrol, faced with an electric overload due to a control test, cannot assume the continuity of its activities. I am astonished by this weakness of functioning. One wonders if Belgocontrol has a few electricians among its staff. Moreover, we are also surprised at the delays required for Belgocontrol's communication: twelve hours of silence! No words of apology! No justification! My third point of astonishment is the delay you took to organise the first crisis meeting: at 8 p.m., if I understand correctly. That's what the press said. Perhaps, however, you had made prior contacts. I have three questions for you. The first concerns the cause. You will explain this to us in detail and detail. If you do not know her in a certain way yet, I recommend that you conduct an investigation that is not purely internal, but that will involve outside experts. I fear, if not, that we are looking for this cause for a long time. Secondly: for Belgium's reputation, what commitment does the government take to compensate passengers who have been victims of Belgocontrol's shortcomings? The third covers a broader subject. A great Thursday week was recently headlined: "Belgocontrol out of control." What are your plans to finally restore order to this institution that has been sailing for too long – I dare not say "on sight", given its missions – without heading or real direction?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-28-54-plenair-ip048x.u53	Madam Minister, una burla belgica, I was told yesterday at the airport in Madrid when I wanted to travel back from there. It took me about 24 hours, but I'm just in time to ask you this question now. Our country has become a kind of third world country where infrastructure is outdated, where the system fails, where the government refuses to accept its responsibility, and where everything and everyone is blamed except those who are truly responsible. Disinvestment due to so-called savings, lack of maintenance, lack of staff and mismanagement led to the known consequences. I will not repeat everything that my fellow Members have said. You, Madam Secretary, choose, as is usually the case with politicians, to flee ahead. There were no apologies from the minister concerned. You didn't dare put your finger on the wound. There will be a crisis meeting, an in-depth investigation and an action plan for the future. However, I would have expected more from you in this respect. You should have apologized, not only to the 35 000 travellers stranded in Zaventem or elsewhere, including myself, but also to the faraway country. You should have made it clear that this is irresponsible and that you will not allow this to happen. You should also have provided a number of solutions before these problems arose. You know the Court of Auditors' report on the disinvestments. Some of them came because of you, and some of them because of the Parti Socialiste, who for years managed this department through a political party creature, Mr Tintin, we all know very well, even if only because of the exuberant dismissal allowance he once asked for. But this whole thing aside. Soon you will hear all kinds of criticism from the opposition when it was once its responsibility. That, too, is completely out of the question. The fact is that you are responsible today and you are also disinvesting, that you are not doing what needs to be done, with the consequences that we know today. We are ridiculing ourselves in front of faraway countries! We will ensure that tens of thousands of people remain in the cold. We ensure that we are unable to provide a minimum service, which should be normal in a civilised country like ours.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-28-54-plenair-ip048x.u54	Mr President, Minister, yesterday was a black day for aviation. We know that our air traffic controllers are working day and night to ensure safe airspace, but after a loud bang, the screen was suddenly black. We have to compare this with someone who drives 120 km/h on the motorway and suddenly doesn't see a thing. Only this is about hundreds of passengers and the speed is at least five times higher. Madam Secretary, the CANAC 2 system was introduced five years ago as the most modern and safest in the world, or at least in Europe. And now, one push of the button and the light went out. Madam Minister, in the previous legislature we asked your predecessor a number of questions about the safety of that system. The Secretary of State at the time assured me that there were no problems. I suppose he wouldn't repeat those words today. This just screams for some questions. How is it that a system of 60 million euros, with two backup systems and certified by an external supervisor, goes out at the push of a button? Who's gonna pay for this? How come it took so long for the system to be operational again? Is it true that air traffic controllers have regularly reported so-called blank screens in recent months, with the screen going out for a few seconds? I don't like to see that on the highway. The most important question of all is perhaps the following. Is it true that Belgocontrol was effectively aware of this risk by means of audits? This calls for an external, far-reaching audit of this problem as well as all other possible security problems.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-28-54-plenair-ip048x.u55	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, hashtag failure was tweeted yesterday when the news reached us that Belgocontrol had caused a massive power cut, with all the consequences. Mr Yüksel has already spoken about the law of Murphy. Ladies and gentlemen, if we were to succeed in abolishing Murphy's law here in Parliament, we would find a large majority for that. Unfortunately, that law is indeterminate and we were the main victims of it yesterday. The safety of the people at the airport and of the people in the air was compromised. The economy and image of Belgium were under severe pressure yesterday. Madam Minister, we must rule out such scenarios in the future. We must not be naive. The weakness of our system was exposed yesterday. The solution must be found within that system. Madam Secretary, I have some questions for you. How can we ensure that traffic in airspace is safe and smooth in the future, that there are no blackouts and that we can guarantee, above all, the safety of passengers? I still have some big questions. What is your assessment of yesterday's situation? What will be the plan of action? I also have a number of smaller questions. Is it logical for some kind of emergency exercise to be done at a busy moment of the day? Doesn't she get better during off-peak hours? Madam Minister, a new element that has not been addressed today is the following. Wouldn't we think much better in terms of scaling up? Is it necessary for each country to manage the safety and traffic in the air of its own airspace? Shouldn't we be looking at a higher level for that? Would there not be any possibility of cooperation within the Benelux countries or at European level? I know that a number of discussions are already going on. I would therefore like to know your position on this matter, but also the state of play. Is this possible in the near future? We need to learn from the incident. After all, it is about core infrastructure and safety. Safety guarantees that are 100% waterproof must be built in. I look forward to your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-28-54-plenair-ip048x.u56	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we all still have in mind the chaos that prevailed at Zaventem airport yesterday following the electrical breakdown in Belgocontrol. Lost families ran in all directions, without information; workers; entrepreneurs, who had professional meetings abroad, found themselves blocked without an alternative solution. Five hundred people had to sleep in the airport. A third of the flights were delayed. And last but not least, the disastrous impact in terms of the image of our country and Brussels, the capital of Europe. We've been talking about blackout in Belgium for some time, but who would have thought it would be Belgocontrol's blackout? Even SNCB communicates and functions better. The worst was crisis management and communication in the moments after the breakdown. On behalf of the Ecolo-Groen Group, I would like to address the following three questions. First, could you tell us about the conclusions of the crisis meeting you had yesterday and about the timing of the action plan that you were talking about this morning in the press? Second, what is the cost of yesterday's blackout? Has an analysis been made? What is the economic impact of this event? Thirdly, apart from austerity measures and cost reductions that have an impact on Belgocontrol, what is your vision and that of the government for the future of this company so that it is effective and sustainable?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-28-54-plenair-ip048x.u57	We congratulate you on your Mayden speech.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-28-54-plenair-ip048x.u58	Mr President, Minister, other fellow Members have already said that an emergency generator that should supply electricity is itself the cause of a breakdown of the whole system. In the press this was called a joke, but I think the 40 000 people who were confronted with it could not laugh at it. Besides, the communication was zero and that's not good. The same applies to your communication, Madam Minister, if it is true that you said in the afternoon that it was an internal problem on which politics should not speak. In the evening, you woke up and told me this case would be investigated. Madam Secretary, exactly what investigation did you ask for? What will be audited? What's the timing of that? Mr Yüksel and Mrs Lijnen wonder whether this is Murphy's law. I don't think that's the case. I think it is Charles Michel's law: this government says that there will be savings on staff and investment and that the commitments will not be met. In February 2014 and March 2015, the CEO was present in this Parliament and one of the questions asked was what would be the impact of the decrease in staff and investment appropriations. On several occasions, the CEO repeated that he needed more staff and resources. A second comment comes from the Court of Auditors, on page 46 of his report. Belgocontrol can now send invoices to the State. In the past, a system of advances was used. Unfortunately, the Court of Auditors says, the government has not entered anything in its budget for this purpose. However, through the adjustment, revenue is suddenly planned through the refund of advances. Madam Minister, during the budget negotiations you said you would provide funds, but in the end that did not happen. There is no EUR 23.9 million in the budget. How is it that you did not include expenditure in this budget amendment and only generate revenue? I find the intervention of the Open Vld very remarkable. In fact, we are calling for the abolition of Belgocontrol, because the question is whether this society is still needed. That's the new fact of the day.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-28-54-plenair-ip048x.u59	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it will have been enough for a power outage to make Belgium laugh at Europe and for airspace to be closed. Hundreds of flights were cancelled or delayed. Tens of thousands of passengers have remained in the dock. Economically, the consequences are important. Above all, major security risks have been taken. We had a good time yesterday. Indeed, if there had been fog instead of the sun, I do not know what the consequences of this situation would have been! However, a power outage is one of the risks to be managed in strategic infrastructure such as air traffic control facilities, provided of course that they are considered strategic. You will allow me to be surprised, when the Prime Minister refused to come and answer the question and sent me a series of arguments to justify himself. His firm therefore tells me that "Belgocontrol is not considered a critical infrastructure". You will allow me not to share the Prime Minister's position, but of course I take note of this kind of statement. The first questions concern, of course, the management of this crisis. When you have been informed, Minister, what steps have you taken immediately with the administration? What were the respective roles of Belgocontrol, ATB, the Department's Crisis Centre and National Defence? You organized a crisis meeting at 8:00 p.m. The peak had already passed a long time ago! Secondly, questions arise about the management of Belgocontrol, which does not appear to have anticipated and taken appropriate initiatives to prevent these risks. We're talking about emergency generators. Excuse me, but they're self-governing! The explanations are incomprehensible. Finally, Mr President, we are wondering about the authority under Belgocontrol, because, yes, an organ supervises it, namely the BSA. It certifies Belgocontrol continuously, including for security processes. Again, Madam Minister, what about the quality of the work done by this supervisory authority? You asked for an investigation. Who will lead it, what will it focus on, and when will we get answers?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-28-54-plenair-ip048x.u60	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it was indeed a sad day yesterday for our air skies, for our economy and for thousands of passengers who saw their flights cancelled, diverted or delayed. What happened yesterday around 9:15? The causes of the electrical surge that occurred at the air traffic control centre during a monthly check of the proper functioning of emergency power systems are not yet known with certainty. This surge damaged the control centre's electrical protection systems. However, the control tower was not affected by the problem. All of Belgocontrol's critical systems have a backup power supply per generator or battery. Every month, these systems are subject to verification. For one reason, still unknown but in the course of investigation, an electric surge occurred. This surge damaged the protections of computer equipment. The electrical installation was certified by an approved organisation in June 2014. The certification is valid for five years. The technical services of Belgocontrol have made every effort to progressively restore the systems and repair the damaged parts. The centre was back in operation with a capacity of 20% yesterday around 2:00 p.m. Capacity was increased to 50 per cent at about 7.30 p.m. and then to 75 per cent at 9.30 p.m. following the crisis meeting. Several days are likely to be required before reaching 100% of capacity again. Nevertheless, 75% of the capacity allows all flights to be operated, although some delays are obviously still possible. Yesterday's backlog was able to be resolved during the night except for cancelled flights, which had to take into account crew rest times. The Belgocontrol staff has been strengthened to provide continuous service. A specific authorisation was granted by the DGTA for the nights of 27, 28 and 29 May, beyond the existing regulatory restrictions. This is the first time in 20 years that such a failure of air traffic control systems has occurred in Belgium. Crisis management procedures exist to deal with such events. They've been activated. It will be up to Belgocontrol to make an ex post critical analysis of how these procedures have been carried out and to take account of feedback to improve them, where appropriate. Of course, I'll be more than intent. The procedures for the management of aircraft present in airspace at the time of the incident were applied and the ad hoc contacts with neighbouring ASPs were taken directly. According to the first collected evidence, the safety distances (eight kilometres horizontally and three hundred metres vertically) were respected during the flight diversion to empty airspace. Contacts were established with the Federal Crisis Centre in the afternoon so as not to exclude any origin. The Crisis Centre of the Internal FPS remains mobilized on the file, although it finds that Belgocontrol is not considered to date as a critical infrastructure within the meaning of the law. An external technical expert was appointed by Belgocontrol and started his expertise this morning. An investigation report will be prepared to identify potential causes and responsibilities. I will of course follow the conclusions of this expertise. An internal audit (Safety) is also under way. More specifically, it aims to verify that all crisis procedures have been correctly applied and that there have been no impacts on aviation safety. An impact report must be submitted within 72 hours to the BSA. I will also take care of the follow-up. Since the incident occurred, I have been in permanent contact with Belgocontrol and have called for a crisis meeting last night, in the presence of DGLV, in order to ensure that coordination between Belgocontrol's services and those of the federal and regional airports is going well. Also this morning there were permanent contacts. Further contacts are planned during the day and the next few days. On the basis of the research reports expected in the next few days, I will first and foremost ensure full clarity of the problem that has arisen and that, in addition, corrective measures can be implemented as quickly as possible so that such incidents do not occur again. Finally, a number of people have wondered whether there is any connection between the incident and the financial problems Belgocontrol has faced since 2010. Of course, Belgocontrol experienced operating losses between 2009 and 2014. But safety investments, which are essential for air navigation, have always been the priority of the management bodies. In the context of budgetary control, I have submitted a request of 24 million for the 2015 financing of Belgocontrol, as provided for in the management contract. I will conclude by saying that I keep in constant contact. I took on my responsibilities, and contrary to what you're saying, Mrs. Fernandez, I didn't do a media show. You can ask the president of Belgocontrol, who is from your party. I've been with them all the time and I've taken on my responsibilities.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-28-54-plenair-ip048x.u61	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. Above all, I remember two concrete things. First, the installation was checked in 2014 and certified for five years. Secondly, yesterday the Minister was in permanent contact with Belgocontrol to keep a close eye on the matter. Madam Minister, on behalf of my group, I repeat that it is unacceptable that such an incident has occurred. A test of the emergency generators led to a major disaster. We must avoid this happening in the future, and we must learn the lessons from this incident. In my view, those Members who link this incident with investments in Belgocontrol and the financing of Belgocontrol are wrong. As the Minister said earlier, we must prepare Belgocontrol for the future. In this process, absolutely no concessions have been made to date on safety or investment in it. Madam Minister, we look forward to the independent investigation you have ordered, as well as the action plan to avoid such matters in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-28-54-plenair-ip048x.u62	Mr President, I will take a few more seconds, in my reply, to reply to Mrs Galant. As long as I'm a member of Parliament, it's up to the minister that I'm coming to ask for an account and not to either of my party's directors or not! You'll excuse me for doing my job. I invite you to do yours! It seems that there are two policies in this government. The first is to say half-truths. We saw him earlier with your colleague. You also did because you did ask for 24 million euros, but what you don't say is that you didn't get them. Minister, I will ask you to assume your responsibilities, do your job and put your energy into it. I will end by saying that Belgocontrol's underfunding is the result of the austerity policy of this government, which, in this matter as well as in the nuclear issue, puts the safety of all citizens at risk.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-28-54-plenair-ip048x.u63	Mr President, 24 hours after the incident, we have not yet had the shadow of a start explaining the reasons for yesterday's breakdown. It's pretty amazing! Not only has there been this failure of a ridiculously impressive enough, but, besides, there is no shadow of an explanation. Minister, I can only encourage you to listen to the workers. The workers have communicated. Trade union organisations have already indicated, for three years, that there has been structural underfunding and that this underfunding has led to security problems. This may be a bit boring for the Liberals, who earlier intervened against the right to strike, but that is why the air traffic controllers carried out social actions, not only in Belgium, but throughout Europe. They're denouncing security issues. Without any evidence, Madam Minister, you already decide to say that the problems of funding this public service are not the cause of yesterday's breakdown. What is the evidence today that underfunding is not the cause? There's none. No element was put forward to show that. There is no evidence that has been demonstrated. Stop lying to public opinion. When you don't have an element, the best thing to do, minister, is to keep quiet!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-28-54-plenair-ip048x.u64	Madam Minister, first of all, keep the elegance of not questioning your own officials in an answer. This seems to me to be the tradition in this House, no matter what you thought. Have the courage, if you find individual shortcomings and responsibilities, to initiate the procedures provided for in the statute or rules in force. The partisan game is not worthy of the responsibilities you have to assume. Then I don't blame you for yesterday's events. You have not been the originator of any instructions that would have led to these. But your answer, let me say it, is still sinning by some shortcomings. One, whether you are content to say that today no one can give you an explanation or even a beginning of explanation of the cause of this disaster, is not acceptable on the part of someone with responsibilities. Two, that Belgocontrol decides to appoint himself the external expert who will assess the cause is not acceptable. This is your responsibility. It's up to you to ask your Mobility FPS to verify and appoint an outside expert, and not let Belgocontrol appoint its own expert. Not all of this goes into a well-ordered system of controlling the functioning of an administration. Three, I am not going to try the budgetary restrictions imposed by your government and previous governments – although – but you will still have to come back to our parliament and the committee to explain how, in a modern administration, electric rescue groups cannot function. Or they're not rescue groups, that's all but relief groups. This will still have to be explained and told where the cause of this problem is.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-28-54-plenair-ip048x.u65	Mr President, we have not heard the Minister here today, but the chief engineer, the spokesman for Belgocontrol. Indeed, instead of showing modesty and apologizing after making a fool of ourselves in relation to the rest of the world, all we were told was political arrogance from the Minister. The Minister did not say anything about the total lack of communication of Belgocontrol or the government with regard to the 35 000 stranded travellers. She did not apologize yesterday, nor today in this House, to those 35 000 travellers, to anyone involved in this incident. Not a word about possible compensation for passengers. Not a word about the criticism that has been going on for years, here in Parliament, in trade unions and elsewhere, about the lack of staff and the technical problems at Belgocontrol, about the lack of maintenance of equipment, about disinvestment. Instead of a thorough explanation with apologies and a minimum of modesty there are only the classic umbrella and the flight ahead. That disappoints me very much. I would like to say one more word about the disinvestment, Mr President. How on earth is it possible that for years under Mr Tintin's PS policy, the airports of Charleroi and Liège did not have to pay a franc or a euro cent for Belgocontrol, whereas today we have millions too short to run this institution in a normal and efficient way? Maybe we should think about that, too.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-28-54-plenair-ip048x.u66	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer, although I think there are still a lot of outstanding questions that I would like to address with you in committee. I notice that many parties here today are almost like vultures, while during the previous legislature a lot of questions were asked about the financing of Belgocontrol most of the time I was on my own. We note that, for example, Mr Tintin threw money at Belgocontrol. He's never been stopped by income or negative figures. I am thinking of the apartment, of the EUR 700 000 retirement allowance and of the fact that Belgocontrol per hour of flight is still the most expensive in Europe in the latest benchmark reports. This is about money that wasn't there. Since 2010, the money was gone and the then Di Rupo government did not want to do anything about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-28-54-plenair-ip048x.u67	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-28-54-plenair-ip048x.u68	Mrs. Temmerman, please! I want to send you the answers. It was very clear that they didn't want that. I therefore believe that we should first and foremost look at how we will deal with and resolve matters and how we will guarantee security effectively. As you know, Belgocontrol has worked for years without a management contract, because the government did not get out. We know how that game went.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-28-54-plenair-ip048x.u69	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-28-54-plenair-ip048x.u70	Mrs Temmerman, the 1989 cooperation agreement is something else. The third management contract was agreed between the federal government and Belgocontrol.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-28-54-plenair-ip048x.u71	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-28-54-plenair-ip048x.u72	Mr Wollants, please continue and conclude your speech.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-28-54-plenair-ip048x.u73	Mrs. Temmerman, that's crazy. I think I'm gonna have to go through the file quietly with you. You can learn some lessons from that. We have to find solutions that stand, but what we have seen today is purely vultures that are countries. I want to find solutions. Over the past few years, I have written a large number of them, and I would be happy to go over them with the Minister. You are always welcome to join us, Mrs. Temmerman. You will learn some things too, but I think you should visit Mr Geerts too, because he knows the file a little bit better.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-28-54-plenair-ip048x.u74	Madam Secretary, communication to passengers is essential. Can this be taken into account in the plan of action? Mr Geerts, you are not only listening selectively, you are also reading selectively. We're here waving the Court of Auditors' report. On page 47 of the report, it says that, in my opinion, local air navigation services are one of the longer words to be used when scribbling at the Belgian public regional airports, amounting to EUR 15.4 million. It was agreed in the new management agreement during the previous legislature that this should be done. Madam Minister, I call on you to implement the passage in the government agreement on page 234 as soon as possible, because it says that the government will conclude a new cooperation agreement with the Regions to regulate the modalities and financing of air navigation services at Belgian airports, based on the principle of user-pays-one services. For example, the creation of a level playing field between Belgian airports will be paramount. Madam Secretary, will you carry out that passage as soon as possible? Mrs Fernandez Fernandez, call Mr Tintin with the same indignation!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-28-54-plenair-ip048x.u75	Mr President, I will repeat what I said. I will question, just as I do not doubt my colleagues in Parliament, whenever dysfunctions occur, regardless of the political colour of the director or manager. Let's go on, let's go further... if my name is mentioned again, I will intervene again to say the same thing, Mr. President. That's my right as a parliamentarian!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-28-54-plenair-ip048x.u76	Mr President, as several of my colleagues have indeed pointed out, the Minister's answers include many shortcomings and worrying blanks, both in terms of communication and in terms of the future of the group. We will remain attentive in the Committee on Infrastructure and look forward to concrete action beyond the declarations of intent that have just been made. In particular, Madam Minister, you have not answered two of my questions. The first was an analysis of the cost of yesterday's blackout. Where are we at at this level? The second was about the vision of the future we want for Belgocontrol. How will you avoid accidents of such magnitude in the future? How will you properly finance this institution? What is the government's vision for this important public tool?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-28-54-plenair-ip048x.u77	Mr President, Mrs Lijnen has asked me a question. As she says, there is a cooperation agreement on financing following the 1989 Law on the increase in passenger numbers. If Mr Wollants is organising a majority consultation, he may also be able to say something to Mrs Lijnen about the financing and about the KB which still needs to be negotiated. Madam Secretary, you gave a technical explanation, but quid with political responsibility? In your reply, you said that you put on the table an amount of EUR 23.9 million in the budgetary adjustment. Is that correct, or did I misunderstand? Did you put EUR 23.9 million on the table for the adjustment of the budget? That's what you said, isn't it? Or am I the only one who has misunderstood that the Minister said that she has put EUR 23.9 million on the table in the preparation of the budget adjustment? That is a simple question, Madam Secretary. Did you just say that or not?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-28-54-plenair-ip048x.u78	Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-28-54-plenair-ip048x.u79	Yeah?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-28-54-plenair-ip048x.u80	Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-28-54-plenair-ip048x.u81	Can you then show me where I can find that amount in the budget? After all, we have not found it, and we not only have not seen it, the Court of Auditors has not seen it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-28-54-plenair-ip048x.u82	Madam Minister, let me tell you that your explanations at this stage seem very largely incomprehensible to me! You say you asked us for a report. Of course, but basically, do you know that there is a long-standing rule that Belgocontrol must report to the BSA, in this case the Mobility FPS and the DGTA, within 72 hours of any security incident. So you asked for a report that was already planned. In other words, you're not doing anything! And then, this report, excuse me, but it's not serious! You are requesting a report that will be prepared by the Mobility FPS, the administration that certified everything that has messed up. What I'm asking you is to work seriously by asking for an independent investigation of Belgocontrol and your administration. It must deal not only with Belgocontrol but also with the manner in which the BSA certifies and validates all safety-related issues. Today is a time for clarity and for all the necessary consequences, because the first issue is the safety of the thousands of people who are flying, but also thousands of passengers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-28-54-plenair-ip048x.u83	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to talk about the strike at SNCB. Much has already been said about this today, but I would like to stress that more than 19 000 SNCB staff have worked today. I think that may be said. I am convinced that most of the staff in the railway company really want to move forward, that there is a willingness to sit around the table and implement new measures and achieve efficiency gains. In my view, this is an important observation, which was confirmed this afternoon in a Belga report from the three major representative trade unions. It was quiet on the train though. The strike was unpredictable and they didn't know how many trains would run and how many didn't. That has a lot to do with communication. In this respect, SNCB can take significant steps forward. Madam Minister, as far as the future is concerned, efficiency gains, the future plan, we have been waiting for some time now. There is a lot of work on the shelf and the future plan should draw the lines. About an hour ago, Mr Cornu gave a press conference and set out a number of lines for the future. He talked about prices and the abolition of stations and stops. These are important statements, which require an answer. I regret that these statements are a preliminaries to what you want to put forward in your future plan. I believe that there is a need to clarify the status of Mr Cornu's announcements. Another aspect of the press conference was the audit of the subsidiaries. This audit led to the dismissal of two staff members at Eurostation. Will the dismissal and audit, which has revealed what has gone wrong, lead to a fresh start for the subsidiaries, which are necessary for further operation? In particular, the establishment of the future plan is becoming very urgent. There are all sorts of reports coming from the abolition of bicycle points to the appointment of a new chairman of the board of directors. These are all preliminaries on the future plan. It's good to get all those rumors, messages and balloons out of the world with your future plan. The most important question is, therefore, when can we expect that?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-28-54-plenair-ip048x.u84	Mr Van den Bergh, I confirm that I have received the benchmark research ordered by SNCB on the basis of findings and analyses on the performance of SNCB, compared with those of other railway undertakings, from Mr Cornu. I will look carefully at the conclusions and I will take them into account when drawing up SNCB's modernisation plan, which I have been working on for several months with the SNCB and Infrabel CEOs. The new vision should make it possible to transform both companies into more efficient companies at the service of customers. Mr Cornu presented the benchmark report at 4 p.m. this afternoon. We will now continue to analyse it together. Like you, I've discovered the various Belga messages.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-28-54-plenair-ip048x.u85	Madam Secretary, I have not received too many answers. One thing is certain: there is a lot of work on the shelf. This work must be in line with the modernisation plan, which you have been announcing for several months now. It is becoming really urgent that the lines are set out and laid down, so that, among other things, the business plan and the new management agreements can all take shape. It is very important that this is done quickly and that it is made clear. Madam Minister, SNCB and rail passengers need a clear vision of the future. We ask them in the short term.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-28-54-plenair-ip048x.u86	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Madam Minister, once again I am asking you questions about a train strike. For the fourth time I have asked a question about this in this hemisphere. I haven't asked a question about every strike, because I would have had seven questions. Today, after all, the seventh track strike takes place at eight months' time. When will it finally be enough? Today, many workers, students and occasional travellers have not reached their destination. Some have taken a day's leave of absence, for the umpteenth time in a short time. Today, the ASTB will cease. As my colleague Mr van den Bergh has said, there are a number of trains that eventually run, but evil has happened. After all, these strikes undermine the confidence of travellers in SNCB, they cost the company handful of money and they cause enormous damage to our economy. The travellers are therefore more than tired of the strikes. Public opinion is eager to introduce a guaranteed service. I speak very consciously about a guaranteed service and not about a minimum service. For us it is important that there are enough trains, so that the passengers arrive at their destination. A recent poll I have with me shows that eight out of ten citizens are asking for a minimum service. TrainTramBus also asks for such an arrangement. The only opponents in this respect appear to be the railway unions themselves. Moreover, the guaranteed service is part of the federal government agreement. Such a system already exists in several European countries. The current strike shows that we too are running out of time to do this. You first give the social partners the opportunity to draw up their own proposals which are accepted by the staff. With N-VA we respect that commitment; it is in accordance with the government agreement. However, you have already told me yourself that the rail unions refused to sit down until the beginning of February. Meanwhile, the clock is ticking further and there are no indications of concrete results yet. Our group therefore wants solutions to be found as quickly as possible, because the patientness of the traveller is running out. Madam Secretary, that is why I have three specific questions for you. What are the current results of the social dialogue on guaranteed services? What conditions do you think the guaranteed service must meet? What is the latest date on which you expect a proposal from the social partners?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-28-54-plenair-ip048x.u87	Mr President, Mrs De Coninck, thank you for your question, which gives me the opportunity to make it clear that I condemn the strike on the basis of the non-approved trade union ASTB. I believe that the attitude of this autonomous syndicate is completely unreasonable. At a time when everyone is saving and the quality of the service of SNCB needs to be improved, inter alia, so that full railway staff can regain their pride, it does not seem to me responsible for asking for EUR 15 million in barema adjustments and higher premiums. In addition, it is totally irresponsible to shut the country down again and to hostage tens of thousands of commuters, students and other travellers. I sent a letter to the CEO of SNCB and Infrabel today to speed up the social dialogue with a view to setting up a minimum service in the event of strikes. I therefore respect the coalition agreement which states that social dialogue must take precedence over any government initiative. I would like to give this consultation a chance, but I also expect that work on minimum services will really progress and produce results within a reasonable period of time.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-28-54-plenair-ip048x.u88	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer. I am pleased to hear that you consider the guaranteed service to be important and that you will ensure that a solution is found. After all, the traveller deserves a solution to the many strikes. For years this was made impossible by the socialists in the government. Now you finally have the chance to kill that sacred house in the interests of the traveller. As an N-VA, we give the social partners within the SNCB group a fair chance to work out a supported proposal. A year is more than a reasonable period. Half of that year has already passed without result. For us December 2015 is the deadline. In the absence of a proposal by the social partners in December 2015, the N-VA Group will take a parliamentary initiative to establish a system of guaranteed service provision.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-28-54-plenair-ip048x.u89	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, on Tuesday, the European Commission finally unveiled the Solidarity component of its action plan for migrants in the Mediterranean, a plan which, until now, had highlighted the Monitoring and Defence component, and which now appears to be more balanced, while remaining very reasonable in the number of refugees it concerns. But you are challenging this plan, Mr. Franken, because it provides that our country will welcome 1,364 Syrians and Eritreans stranded on the Greek or Italian shores, in addition to 490 refugees staying in camps in war zones out of a total of 20,000. You're challenging it for nothing less than petty reasons. You are saddened by the criteria for allocating effort between Member States. Neighbor's plate seems more enviable to you than the one you're served. You are very critical of countries on the front line. You think that 2,000 people a year is too much for Belgium, but you are mad that Italy does not take the fingerprints of 20,000 people who arrive on a monthly basis in its territory. Michel Rocard said: "France cannot welcome all the misery of the world, but it must take its part." Belgium too! We no longer live in a world where Athens and Lampedusa are exotic countries. People are dying at our doors. We must respond to the call made to us and to which we are committed under Article 78 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The urgency is not to know whether Poland or Spain are doing too much or not; it is to save lives, otherwise all the speeches of European solidarity would only be windy. What sense would then remain in the Union, where we welcome the highest authorities in our territory? Here are my questions, Secretary of State. Is your response to this plan your own or is it the response of the government as a whole? What position does the Council intend to take on this issue at the next Council to adopt this plan? How do you intend to implement this reception plan as soon as possible, and in particular for the 1,364 people to be moved between Greece and Italy? Will you, in the meantime, raise the number of buffer places available from Fedasil announced yesterday in committee? Finally, in addition to the Defence component already in place, what about the 3D strategy in this file? Can you give us the measures taken in terms of diplomacy and cooperation in this context?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-28-54-plenair-ip048x.u90	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the government wants more European solidarity to combat the crisis in the Mediterranean. In addition, we set the right example. We stand in solidarity with the rescue of refugees by boat. Saving human lives is our priority. Thus, Godetia is currently operating in the Mediterranean. Furthermore, we are also in solidarity with Belgium's numerous reception efforts. In 2015, we will resettle no fewer than 550 refugees. Indeed, the target has increased from 150, which was the number planned by the previous government, to 550 under the current government. This is in addition to the asylum applications that my services process every day. Since the beginning of the conflict, we have granted international protection status to some 5,000 Syrians. We recognize thousands of refugees every year. Our Government is making efforts well above the European average. The fact that the Commission is tabling a concrete draft on the table to better organise solidarity between the Member States is positive. Like so many other Member States, we want to discuss the exact distribution key. This should take into account the many efforts made by our country in recent years in the reception of asylum-seekers. In this respect, in the coming weeks, the necessary contacts will be established formally and informally both by the Prime Minister and myself in preparation for the European Summit in late June. Another key point is the principle of reciprocity. We agree with the relocation of refugees, provided that Italy and Greece correctly apply the European asylum directives and the Dublin Regulation. The identification of asylum-seekers on arrival must take place both fully and correctly.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-28-54-plenair-ip048x.u91	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your answers. We cannot remain insensitive to what is happening in the Mediterranean. As I have already said, the rescue plans and the reception plans will not be enough. It is also important to address the problem at source and to work on the causes of these departures. This must be done with our diplomacy, our cooperation, with European cooperation, with European diplomacy. I understand the rules you want to see applied at the level of Italy, but, Mr Secretary of State, do not forget one thing: behind the figures, behind these quotas, there are mostly human beings! So show some humanity!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-28-54-plenair-ip048x.u92	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur, Mrs Grovonius, referred to her written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-28-54-plenair-ip048x.u93	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this is not the first time that this House has had before it a convention aimed at avoiding double taxation and preventing tax evasion in relation to income taxes. This type of convention is based on an OECD model that we find in other tax treaties signed with other countries. The conclusion of such agreements allows Belgium to recover taxes due and thus to combat tax fraud. I will not make the report of Mrs Grovonius's Committee on External Relations because she referred to her written report. Different types of questions were asked. We had discussions about both the organization of work and the trust we had in Seychelles, etc. I will just take up this last aspect: it is well known, ladies and gentlemen, that Seychelles has a reputation in this field as a paradise destination. The banks there have a reputation as banks with discreet practices. Seychelles no longer has a choice. They must apply OECD standards. They are scrutinised by banks and will have to make further progress in the exchange of financial and banking information. Progress has been made in recent years. Are they sufficient? No. We are still waiting for improvements on their side. Seychelles has committed itself to a number of obligations. Without naivety, and with tenacity, our tax administration will have the opportunity to test the reliability of the information provided. So let's trust the finance officials. They are rigorous, professional. The convention we are ratifying contains mechanisms for the exchange of information and anti-abuse measures: let us apply them. Let us be vigilant and remain demanding!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-28-54-plenair-ip048x.u94	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I have already tried in committee to convince my fellow Members that it would be a very unwise choice to approve the Treaty. Let me repeat my arguments for those Members who are not fortunate enough to be part of the Committee on External Relations. Colleagues, double taxation treaties have essentially two functions. Firstly, they must avoid double taxation on the same income, which would not be fair. In the globalised world in which we live, my group and I believe that systems should be sought that allow at least one fair and correct taxation of income. We can't double-tax everything. The second function of double taxation conventions is to ensure that, once the Convention is signed, one of the Articles.... is usually that Article 26............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. I must remind you that the treaty before us today, which is the Seychelles Convention, is not necessary to avoid double taxation. That is for the simple reason that Seychelles is subject to a very special regime for companies. If I really simplify it, that regime sees it as nothing less than the truth: in Seychelles, a company is taxed only on the profits made by the activities in the territory of Seychelles. So anyone who has a company in Seychelles and develops activities there must pay taxes in Seychelles. In other words, a multinational company with a branch in Seychelles can easily divert all profits it makes in the rest of the world to Seychelles. In the Seychelles, that company must not pay taxes on these profits. If a double taxation treaty is signed between Belgium and Seychelles, as proposed by the majority, then it means that the profits collected in Seychelles can be passed on to Belgium. Depending on the circumstances, a tax will then have to be paid between 0 % and half of the corporation tax in Belgium. Ladies and gentlemen, instead of having a treaty where income is only taxed once, the revenue will either not be taxed in Belgium or at 50% of the tax. To exaggerate, rather than a double taxation convention, a double non-tax convention is signed. I ask my fellow Members from CD&V, N-VA, Open Vld and MR whether they think it is fair that Belgian multinational companies, which we know have gone after to sign such a treaty, do not see their foreign profits taxed or pay up to half of the taxes that Belgian companies have to pay on their Belgian activities. Do you think that's fair? I have not yet heard a single member of the majority give a decisive argument as to why he or she agrees that Belgian companies should be taxed at 100%, while foreign profits should not be taxed at 50%. As I said, the second function of a double taxation convention is to ensure that information is exchanged. For reliable information one depends on the reliability of the partner, in this case on the Seychelles administration. The OECD makes a peer review and checks for all countries whether or not it complies correctly with international agreements on the exchange of information.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-28-54-plenair-ip048x.u95	A new OECD list has been published today. Since November 2013, Seychelles has been blacklisted from the OECD, non-compliant. The Seychelles are therefore not reliable when it comes to meeting its obligations under treaties or international agreements on the exchange of information. Ladies and gentlemen, for the second time I am trying to make it clear to you that it is not sensible and certainly not good for a level playing field between companies, for competition, for our state revenue, that the proposed treaty would be signed. What is more, and with that I conclude, it runs counter to the international commitments we have made in the OECD. The OECD, in a 2014 document, calls on all Member States not to enter into double taxation treaties with well-known tax havens and certainly not with blacklisted countries. Colleagues, almost all respectable, tax-civilised states follow that advice. If you vote yes later, it means that Belgium will join countries that do not comply with international obligations and international agreements. I will read the list of these countries slowly, so that you know, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, which group of countries our country joins thanks to your yes vote. The following countries also have, contrary to the international trend, a double tax treaty with Seychelles: San Marino, Isle of Man, Bahrain, Ethiopia, Monaco, Zambia, Indonesia, South Africa, Botswana, Barbados, China, Cyprus, Malaysia, Mauritius, Oman, Qatar, Thailand, United Arab Emirates, Vietnam and Zimbabwe. If you approve the treaty in the near future, we will join that kind of country. Those who have listened carefully have noticed that there is one EU country between them, Cyprus. That country is known as a fiscal paradise where financial matters are not too clear. The OECD has blacklisted Cyprus, just like the Seychelles. Colleagues, I make an ultimate appeal to you not to disgrace our country. Let us not add our country to the list of countries that are known to be fiscally impure. I hope that you will use the few minutes left before the votes to examine your conscience. I hope you will make the right choice and not approve the proposed treaty.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-28-54-plenair-ip048x.u96	Mr President, I shall begin with a regret. The members of the Committee on External Relations have refused the request we made. Indeed, we wanted to obtain a prior opinion from the Finance Committee, which regularly works under the leadership of its chairman on issues of combating tax fraud at the national and international levels – particularly in the wake of recent revelations such as the LuxLeaks. The question here is whether this Treaty, in its non-double taxation component, will not open up new opportunities for those who want to escape tax and tax fraud internationally. An opinion from the Finance Committee would have been helpful. In the meantime, I will give you my own opinion on this aspect. There are two aspects to this treaty. The first concerns the exchange of information between the Seychelles and Belgium tax administrations. This is a global trend following the work of the G20 and under the leadership of the OECD. This development is positive and necessary. We hope that this principle advocated by the OECD will quickly, in a comprehensive manner, be reflected in a balanced and generalized manner in national legislation. Quickly, because the trend in the fight against tax fraud is to take its time. So many decisions are taken very quickly in other matters. For the exchange of information, it is always "too soon and too fast". The deadlines that are set are unsatisfactory in view of the issues at stake. In a comprehensive way, because it is necessary to be able to integrate into such international agreements, including at European level, all the data relevant to the calculation of the contribution of the parties concerned. I am thinking in particular of the ruling issue, which we discussed last week with representatives of the European Parliament's Tax Committee. Opacity is organised by States, including ours, in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-28-54-plenair-ip048x.u97	In a balanced way, because unfortunately not all countries have the same capacity to develop efficient administrative services. I am thinking of the developing countries. These require tailor-made and generalized conditions, because the aim is that this tax information can circulate between the administrations concerned globally, so that each State can finally calculate the right contribution to the financing of its collective functions and solidarity. This aspect of the Treaty is not problematic, even if it would have been hoped that the most recent standards would be proposed, i.e. the automatic exchange of information and not the exchange on demand, especially since Seychelles is not very cooperative in terms of information to foreign tax administrations, beyond the agreements reached. This Treaty has a second part, that of non-double taxation. It is another thing, not that we feel that our companies working abroad must be taxed twice. That's really not the point. In the course of the debate, this is an argument that has been used by some colleagues. If we have to put the activity of Belgian companies in Seychelles into perspective (a little dredging and activity around the minerals that have not been specified to us), it is obvious that Belgian companies active in Seychelles do not have to pay twice the tax, but there is a way to deal with this issue other than through a non-double taxation treaty. Other States, notably the Netherlands, take into account, without double taxation treaties, taxes already paid abroad by their enterprises. This could be done unilaterally in Belgium. If there is to be a useful and valid non-double taxation treaty, the country with which we are dealing must ensure a fair and transparent contribution from companies, that the levels of taxation are close to ours and that this country plays the game, in other words, that it is not a tax haven. This is clearly not the case for Seychelles. I will refer to the OECD's most recent report of February 2015, which ranks, as Mr. Van der Maelen before me, the Seychelles in the same way as the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, Cyprus and the British Virgin Islands in jurisdictions which are non-complicated, i.e. which do not respect the rules of the game or which, in other words, are tax havens. In particular, the IBC legal structures are called into question. They are generally used in Seychelles and there is a total opacity with regard to those who own them and the income earned. In addition, Seychelles has quite aggressive advertising practices. By financial and economic choice of the country's authorities, they want to be a platform, a hub, between Africa and Europe, not to develop real economic activity but to form financial platforms that serve, as I pointed out in the committee discussion, to plunder the natural resources of the countries of the South. A number of European Parliament reports have highlighted this, including a committee chaired by French MEP Eva Joly. The third element, also recent, is the fact that Seychelles is multiplying the signing of treaties with other countries that can be classified as tax havens. Based on the latest information and despite the hopes that we could have in the continuity of the policy developed under the impetus of the OECD, something is not working in Seychelles. Seychelles does not play the game and intends to remain a tax haven. Signing a treaty of non-double taxation with a tax haven is problematic; that is why we have not voted on this text in committee, nor will we vote on it in plenary. I am going to make a parenthesis for Mr Miller and for Mr Dallemagne, who rightly pointed out in committee that this treaty did not know its first stage in the Federal Parliament but that it had been discussed in other parliaments, particularly in the Walloon Parliament in February 2014. I have referred to this work. You will agree with me that February 2014 is before February 2015. With the latest information from the OECD that Seychelles does not cooperate usefully, the expected developments have not materialized. I also reread the speech of my Walloon colleague, Luc Tiberghien, who stressed the status of Seychelles as a tax haven. At that time, he expressed the hope that the signing of this agreement would contribute to a real development in Seychelles, which is clearly not the case today, on 28 May 2015, in the light of the information available to us. That justifies the vote we will be voting on earlier. By multiplying this type of treaty, the risk is to recreate new grey areas, which is contrary to the global objective of combating fraud, combating tax havens, and good perception of corporate contributions, in this case multinationals. In general, since this is not the first treaty of this kind that will be voted on at the federal level, I think we need to give ourselves time to evaluate the treaties already signed and to check whether they are not being used, through a tax engineering such as the LuxLeaks was able to highlight it, for tax avoidance purposes. The principle of not taxing a company twice is indisputable but, in the name of this principle, we cannot create new grey areas which are used by those who do not properly play the game of their contribution to the financing of collective functions and solidarity. The risk of this treaty is to create a new grey zone, I repeat, with a State that has clearly decided to base its wealth on this type of fiscal practice that we denounce.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-28-54-plenair-ip048x.u98	Mr President, I will briefly mention some points that I have not heard enough in the debate so far. These are some of the points that are of interest to our group. In our view, the agreement signed largely follows the OECD model for tax treaties, and in addition complements the provisions of the agreements relating to the exchange of information. Despite the fact that this is present, the Belgian delegation, for the sake of caution, had a general anti-abuse clause inserted. It is inspired by exemplary provisions of OECD Model Conventions. We shall therefore vote in favour of the draft law, since we believe that sufficient conditions have been met and the principle of caution has been taken into account. As Minister Van Overtveldt has already pointed out, security will be built in in case it appears that taxes paid in Seychelles are extremely low. You may understand that as taxes of less than 15%. In that case, the tax to be collected in Belgium would be only half and thus not completely waived. We must also bear in mind that there are economic interests in favour of such a treaty. Companies of ours also have an interest in the aspect of the Convention on the Avoidance of Double Taxation. Finally, we are not the only country in the EU that has already signed such a treaty with Seychelles. Similar treaties have already been concluded by Luxembourg and Cyprus. Finally, I would like to make one point that I do not really understand very well, perhaps because I am quite new. The treaty was adopted effortlessly in the regional parliaments in 2013 and 2014 by the opposition parties that are now screaming murder and fire. I recently heard the defense that the treaty for the regions is only a B treaty and therefore not really so important when it was adopted. I therefore wonder whether the opposition parties might not have done their homework at the time, because apparently they had not taken account of the fact that the treaty would still be on the table of the federal Parliament. I just don't understand.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-28-54-plenair-ip048x.u99	Will you respond to what Mrs Capoen said, Mr Van der Maelen?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-28-54-plenair-ip048x.u100	Mr President, I would like to respond to two comments. Firstly, Mrs Capoen says that the cabinet has informed her that the treaty is an anti-abuse clause. I have just said that the OECD has very strict conditions. She doesn't want double taxation treaties signed with tax havens. If we want to sign double taxation treaties, the OECD is asking for two things. Firstly, an anti-abuse clause. You'll say yes. However, it is not about this anti-abuse clause. This is an anti-abuse clause, old style. It does not contain the so-called principal purpose test. Secondly, if we still sign double taxation treaties, the OECD is asking for restrictions on benefits provisions to be added. It doesn't say that either. If you do not want to vote that treaty out today, at least use the fair play on our international agreements with the OECD, postpone the adoption today and adapt the treaty to the two new conditions that the OECD is asking for. But no, I already know that this majority really does not want to do anything about tackling international organised tax fraud. You want to keep doing what was done before the crisis. I come to your second point. I have only checked this for the Flemish Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen, you are using this argument usefully not to go down. I have just asked questions to my fellow Members of the majority. I still haven't received an answer to that. Our Constitution and institutional legislation set out very broadly that tax treaties must also be approved by regional parliaments. I have the decree here with me. What is the title of the decree? I will not read the title completely, but he says that this treaty is about taxes on income. Income tax. Now, the Flemish level had no jurisdiction with regard to income tax on 29 May 2013, when it approved this. This means that this Treaty has zero and zero significance for the Flemish Parliament. I would also ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to take a look at the procedure. I have the Flemish Parliament's report on this. I heard a Flemish government leader say: 'What we do ourselves, we do better.' Now, ladies and gentlemen, what the Flemish Parliament is doing is certainly not better. They have put the treaty with the Seychelles on a long train with 27 other treaties. Those 28 treaties, 27 plus the Seychelles, have been approved with an introduction by Minister Muyters of your party, on a single page. I can give you the lines. Half of that page is about the removal of banking secrecy. Of the 124 fellow MEPs in the Flemish Parliament, from opposition to majority, none of them spoke about the 28 treaties. Nobody. None of the sp.a., none of the Greens, none of the Open Vld. This is the way in which the Treaty on Seychelles was approved in the Flemish Parliament. Mr Capoen, I repeat that this is not surprising, as it has no impact whatsoever on the Flemish budget. If we come here to say that it has been approved in the Flemish Parliament, it has been a stupid thing to do. However, one cannot blame my fellow Members because they do not have a finance committee or a committee on external relations dealing with this issue. A final remark in favour of my fellow Members in the Flemish Parliament. If you have listened carefully to the dates, that treaty was approved on 29 May in the Flemish Parliament and only on 23 November the Seychelles were blacklisted. Our fellow Members of the Flemish Parliament could not have known that Seychelles would be on that blacklist. You know that. If, despite this information, you are going to add Belgium to the list of non-civilised fiscal states, then I am ashamed in your place. A moment of shame only takes three seconds to push that green button and it will be over. It's too bad. I promise you that I will do my best to remind you as often as possible of the shameful voice you will be voting.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-28-54-plenair-ip048x.u101	Mr Van der Maelen, I also reminded you in committee of a vote in the plenary session on Bahrain on 23 March 2014. The same thing was approved there. I'd like to ask you a simple question. You were already here at the time. Not me yet, so I can't know. Did you press that green button without shame at the time? Well, you did then, didn't you?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-28-54-plenair-ip048x.u102	Mr Vandenput, I will give you the same answer as I gave in committee. Bahrain is not on the OECD's blacklist, the Seychelles is. I would ask this government, the majority in this House, to have a little more respect for the international agreements that have been made. You are endangering our country's international credibility. If you agree internationally that you do not conclude double taxation agreements with countries that are blacklisted by the OECD, which the OECD considers to be non-compliant, and if you do, you will undermine our country's credibility. That will be your responsibility and not ours.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-28-54-plenair-ip048x.u103	Mr Van der Maelen, Bahrain is also a tax haven. Belgium is also in the eyes of other countries, because we are in the 40th place.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-28-54-plenair-ip048x.u104	Come on! I'll give you proof of the five countries...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-28-54-plenair-ip048x.u105	I call Mr Dallemagne.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-28-54-plenair-ip048x.u106	Mr President, I am very reassured about the work of the Flemish Parliament. It's quite upbuilding. Mr Gilkinet later praised the work of the Walloon Parliament and his colleague Ecolo. It cannot be said that there had been no work in the Walloon Parliament. I would like to recall that my group will today approve this bill, which was signed in 2006 by Belgium and Seychelles, which aims at avoiding double taxation and preventing tax evasion with regard to income taxation. I recall this date: 2006. The accompanying protocol complements the agreement in order to allow the exchange of bank information and thus bring the agreement into line with international standards for the exchange of information. These are not the most recent standards and I will come back to them, but they are in line with certain standards in any case. This additional protocol was signed in 2009. I will voluntarily remind you of these two dates. Indeed, in 2006 there was a violet coalition that approved the agreement. The previous government approved this agreement in 2009. Secondly, these texts were approved by the various regional parliaments, and in this case, in particular, by the Walloon regional government and by the Walloon Parliament, on 12 March 2014, unanimously, without causing much debate. We have just had an exchange of views in this regard. Mr Gilkinet, you are referring to the fact that Mr Tiberghien spoke on the Seychelles. I went to see you again. We really need a microscope to reread his intervention on the Seychelles. He had spoken on Gibraltar and welcomed the fact that an agreement on Seychelles could possibly improve the situation on those islands. Let's be good, Mr. Gilkinet. You make this argument, like a pirouette, pointing out that "it's not going so well today". You discovered, thanks to my speech, that your group had ratified and voted on this text last year. You didn't know that during your speech. You didn't see him. I believe that this shows, beyond these events, our consistency, honesty and transparency. We do not change, we do not go up on the barricades when we are in opposition to remain silent when we are in the majority and we have the ability to possibly change certain decisions. From this point of view, a little coherence is needed. I like being a white knight, but it's better to be a white knight when you're really in a position to influence and change the decision. Today, you know well that you are not in a position to do so. So I would just like to say that we will be consistent. We will approve this assent bill. We think...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-28-54-plenair-ip048x.u107	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-28-54-plenair-ip048x.u108	With what we have already voted and approved in government. You did it in government under the violet coalition, Mrs Gerkens, I remind you, in 2006. If it's to oppose it in 2015, I don't see exactly what consistency is. You had, at that time, the possibility of possibly opposing it. You didn't do it: 2006, 2009, 2013, 2014 are all dates when you could object to this protocol, and you didn't. I find it a little curious that you come in 2015 to tell us that this agreement is unbearable and totally unacceptable. You would have been more credible if you had said it from the start.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-28-54-plenair-ip048x.u109	You're going to tell us how consistent you are. As I said in the gallery, but I will repeat, because you probably did not like the explanation, on the one hand, there was a critical intervention in the debate in the Walloon Parliament by my colleague Mr Tiberghien. I refer you to the report of the meeting and the committee. These are parliamentary documents. On the other hand, there is a global development for Seychelles with the OECD assessment of February 2015. You have pointed out that this text has been under discussion for a very long time and that several governments have dealt with it, but there are new elements in the file, to which I referred in committee and which I have just repeated here. There is the latest OECD assessment of Seychelles' tax practices that are not evolving in the desirable way to combat fraud globally. What do I have to do with this finding? To keep my mouth shut, because a vote has been put before, that it does not seem to me to be consistent with the objective of combating tax fraud according to the information available to me? Or alert my colleagues to the majority and the opposition to the fact that there is a problem with this text and invite them to reconsider this point of view and to question the Finance Committee, so that it can carry out the necessary hearings to verify that we are not making a mistake? The situation is not the same as at the beginning or under negotiation. That's just what we did. Rather than persisting in the error, if there is a mistake, I prefer to take a critical view based on the information that I have at the moment when I have to vote and speak in Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-28-54-plenair-ip048x.u110	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-28-54-plenair-ip048x.u111	Yes, he will be there at the time of the vote, Mrs Fonck. Don't be ridiculous!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-28-54-plenair-ip048x.u112	Again, Mr Gilkinet, I can't help but think that this is a pirouette, since you are talking about it today and you didn't do it in committee. Besides, it's totally contradictory... [[brouhaha]] If you never let me answer... I know that it bothers you that I face your contradictions, while you teach us every time about this kind of thing. I've been in the gallery for a quarter of an hour, and I've spoken just two minutes!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-28-54-plenair-ip048x.u113	If you say anything wrong, let me correct it immediately. In committee, I referred to the fact that the OECD report was after the vote in the Walloon Parliament. This is new information that I have reported in committee. I see you're spending a lot of energy looking for straw in the neighbor's eye. I would be interested to know the opinion and methods of the CDH to combat tax havens on a global scale.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-28-54-plenair-ip048x.u114	Let me answer you first, since you're interrupting me all the time. There is a major contradiction in your reasoning. You said earlier in this rostrum that Mr Tiberghien wanted this vote to take place because, thanks to this convention, we would be able to improve the tax situation. Today, you tell us the opposite: "We must not sign this convention because the tax situation has not really improved". For my part, I like consistency and believe that it is better to have an inclusive mechanism of consultation, convention, peer monitoring and monitoring to try to improve things in Seychelles. That's what we're proposing. From this point of view, Mr Gilkinet, I would like more consistency on your part. We will approve this bill because we believe that the signing of this type of convention is a direct result of the OECD's approach, several years ago, to banking transparency and the fight against tax havens. It is precisely for this reason that this type of convention is absolutely indispensable. It should also be stressed that Belgium has intensified its efforts since March 2009 to sign such international agreements as soon as possible for the exchange of banking information, because it itself wished to leave the grey list of OECD countries. Belgium has therefore signed a series of texts in a sufficiently short period of time to be able to comply with certain international standards. For this reason, it has also undertaken a series of approaches with countries with which it has economic and trade relations. With regard to the particular case of Seychelles and the history of the elaboration of this Convention, it should also be noted that the Convention was only successful when it was found, contrary to what you have just said, that Seychelles had formally committed itself to complying with OECD international standards. The work of the OECD has not only resulted in the reduction of harmful preferential tax regimes of OECD member countries themselves, but also in formal commitments by a number of third countries to eliminate harmful tax practices and to establish procedures for the exchange of information. Seychelles is one of those jurisdictions that was considered cooperative with the OECD in 2009. As early as April 2009, the country was on the white list of OECD countries as a country that has effectively implemented international standards for the exchange of tax information. Furthermore, with regard to the fight against money-laundering, it should also be noted that Seychelles is not on the blacklist of the Financial Action Task Force (FATF) on money-laundering. Seychelles, on the other hand, is part of the anti-money laundering group, which can obviously be questioned as to the effectiveness of Eastern and Southern Africa, but it has therefore taken a series of steps. Efforts and commitments have therefore been well initiated and implemented by Seychelles and noted by relevant organizations. By signing these conventions and approving them today at parliamentary level, Belgium is part of these approaches and efforts undertaken by the OECD. We therefore consider these texts to be progress. It is obviously not the "paradis" but it is a step forward in relation to the current situation. I also note that the usual delays, which unfortunately affect the passage of these bills into Parliament, mean that what we are looking at today – as you yourself have said – is somewhat out of step with the actual practice and progress of international negotiations on the exchange of banking information. Indeed, if this 2006 Convention and 2009 Protocol put in place an exchange of information on demand – which is already a good thing – the new standard developed by the OECD already plans to go further, by systematising the automatic exchange of information, which would indeed be much better. Among the many countries of the Early Adopters Group that have formally committed themselves to applying this new standard by 2007, there are Belgium, but there are also Seychelles, which have committed themselves to this automatic exchange of information. This, in our view, is an indication of their willingness to continue to improve. I hope that the government will be committed to making every effort to comply as quickly as possible with this new standard. Mr. Minister of Foreign Affairs, I would have liked to hear from you in this regard. Will there be a new additional protocol on this automatic exchange of information? It is important that we can actually move forward in this area. I'm not naive and I'm not saying that everything's best in the best of the worlds. Although Seychelles has made unmistakable efforts – it has complied with a number of international requests and has committed itself to implementing certain provisions – the recent OECD review points to Seychelles for delays, shortcomings and non-compliance with certain provisions. It's not the only country that's pointed out. Luxembourg, a neighbouring country, is also pointed out, but that does not prevent us from having economic, commercial relations and signing agreements with it. There are indeed a number of countries whose practices must change, and Seychelles is one of them. It is a matter of being vigilant in this regard. The Secretary-General's report, which you referred to, mentions, as in the case of Luxembourg or Cyprus, which are also considered to be in breach of their commitments to transparency and data exchange. Nevertheless, the same report indicates that an additional assessment is under way for these three countries so that they can improve their ratings by demonstrating that they have properly adjusted their practices. So not everything is black or white, as some people like to present. Seychelles has made progress and has made a formal commitment to continue in this direction. Participation in this OECD-led process and the implementation of conventions and protocols, such as those we are looking at today, place this country under the critical scrutiny of its peers and the OECD, and that is what we want. We must be able to have a mechanism of critical monitoring of their practices. As a result of these texts, Seychelles must undergo regular assessments that note compliance with the measures thus required. The fact that certain provisions are not properly implemented in practice, the recommendations to correct the shooting if we do not want to remain poorly classified, all this will prompt the Seychelles Government to act willingly and, like Belgium, to reform and reform its practices. In my view, it is better for Belgium to ratify this agreement with Seychelles, legitimately regarded as a tax haven, which has made progress but which, nevertheless, must be a source of monitoring on the part of the OECD and our country. The situation would be more worrying if Seychelles had preferred to isolate itself. This ongoing process must be seen as evolving, as a work in progress. Indeed, additional protocols could also be planned in the future for a systematic exchange of information. Of course, there is still a long way to go before Seychelles is completely clean, but today there is a procedure, conventions, in this case, those we are looking at today, which allow us to have close monitoring, an inclusive mechanism to ensure that Seychelles continues to make progress towards transparency and towards its fiscal and administrative practices.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-28-54-plenair-ip048x.u115	Mr Dallemagne, thank you for coming to your position after exegesis of ours. You underline the progress made by Seychelles in the global trend towards information exchange. But you do not take into account the latest OECD report. Like you, I would like to believe that what the OECD is doing and the evolution of information exchange at the global level is positive in the fight against tax havens and in the fight against tax evasion. However, the latest developments in Seychelles are negative. There are two things, either we sign the convention and therefore we no longer have any pressure on Seychelles, or we limit it to the exchange of information. This is our attitude based on the latest information we have, hoping that the non-ratification of this Convention today will lead to real and lasting developments in Seychelles. Indeed, the expectations that could be placed in 2009 in this development are currently not met in the light of the international developments achieved, since the OECD considers that they are non-complicated with regard to the exchange of information.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-28-54-plenair-ip048x.u116	Mr President, if I may, I would like to set the scene with a small story. Do you know the island of Arros? It's an island in Seychelles. Seychelles is an archipelago. The island of Arros is an island that Liliane Bettencourt, one of the greatest fortunes of France, friend of Sarkozy, bought for $18 million. It did so from two Swiss companies. It is part of her wealth that she has made escape from the tax on wealth in France. Seychelles is very well known and Mrs Liliane Bettencourt likes their tourism aspect very much. She also likes the tax haven aspect of the archipelago. That is what is surprising in this convention. We have already signed, but here we want to vote for a convention to avoid double taxation with a country where there is no taxation, and which is a tax haven. That's a little amazing! Several colleagues have taken up the following idea in the explanatory memorandum: there would be a development in Seychelles' policy. I quote: "However, the fiscal climate around Seychelles has changed." And we continue with all the supposed positive development of Seychelles. Why say that Seychelles is not a tax haven when all the facts, if an objective analysis is made, show that it is one, except that it has signed a minimum of twelve conventions with other countries, which are tax havens like my colleague Mr. Van der Maelen said so? Why say that Seychelles is no longer a tax haven, whereas officially, for Belgian legislation, it is a tax haven? In fact, the Royal Decree implementing the Income Tax Code provides a list of countries considered as tax havens for permanently taxed income matters (RDTs). And what do we see in this list? Fifty-three countries, and between São Tomé and Somalia, there are Seychelles. Here, strange! In the Belgian official royal decree, Seychelles is a tax haven, but in the explanatory memorandum and in the statements of colleagues, we try to prove the opposite. This is still surprising! Moreover, the fact that Seychelles is on this list of tax havens mentioned by the Royal Decree raises a question on RTD and the dividends that go back, since it is stated in the Convention and in its commentary that the RTD regime is applicable to the conditions of the law. Is this the general conditions of the law, or is it a matter of excluding Seychelles because it is on the list? In which case one wonders why it is said that RTD is applicable. Some report another problem. Signing this agreement with Seychelles risks reviving the QFIE case, which led to the opening of a committee of inquiry in this Chamber into major tax fraud. Are we going to relive this kind of case? What is quite surprising is that the explanatory memorandum recognizes Seychelles as an offshore financial centre. A distinction seems to be made between tax havens and offshore financial centres, while if we read the literature on the subject – I am thinking in particular of John Christensen, Director of the Tax Justice Network – it is obvious that these are two aspects of the same reality. I thank you for the quotation that explains it. On the other hand, when we look more closely at the situation, we see that Seychelles is indeed a well-known tax haven. All the ingredients are combined. You can visit the website www.paradisfiscaux20.com; some MR colleagues may be interested to know where to place money safely! It explains where the best tax havens are in 2014. Seychelles is included. The Tax Justice Network, the NGO specializing in combating tax havens, has drawn up a ranking of countries by index of financial opacity in descending order. Who is number three of this list? Seychelles. This country is therefore one of the best examples of financial opacity in the world. They're on the podium with the bronze medal. In just a few clicks, with the url I have given you, you can create an offshore company in Seychelles and thus enjoy the benefits that are offered to you. As far as the OECD is concerned, its practice in combating tax havens has evolved and Seychelles has benefited. Until 2001, the OECD set out four criteria for defining a tax haven: non-existent taxes, lack of exchange of information, lack of transparency, lack of substantial activities of registered companies. The OECD has abandoned these four criteria to include only one, the exchange of information. Of course, Seychelles has gone into this breach to appear as a good example and to be included in the white list that Mr Dallemagne referred to. It was easy for Seychelles to sign twelve agreements with other tax havens, including Belgium. One wonders whether this partnership does not demonstrate that Belgium is also a tax haven, which is commonly defended. With this treaty, our country offers a certificate of respectability to Seychelles, while – if we follow OECD standards, which I criticize – even the minimum trade union that we ask of it is not respected. Indeed, the latest OECD report shows that evaluation phase 2 has failed and that Seychelles is failing to meet its commitments to exchange information. It should be noted that Seychelles is home to nearly EUR 7 trillion in financial assets and that there are 64,000 companies managed by some 60 intermediaries. These intermediaries are very strong! In conclusion, at the time of the SwissLeaks, LuxLeaks, PanamaLeaks and OffshoreLeaks, I think that the majority vote is in the opposite direction of the international movement to fight against tax havens. I ask the question: will it take a SeychellesLeaks to get together? Therefore, the PTB will clearly vote against this convention. We did not have the opportunity to oppose the Walloon Region, because we had not yet elected.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-28-54-plenair-ip048x.u117	Mr President, I would also like to say a few words, but without repeating what has been discussed in committee. Firstly, we will ratify this agreement with Seychelles because it represents an evolution for Seychelles. The exchange of information is possible, and our draft also contains a number of specific provisions on anti-abuse actions by tax administrations. I am surprised that criticism of Seychelles is accompanied by the desire not to move forward in a mechanism that not only integrates Seychelles into the international order, but above all that allows our administrations to benefit from the exchange of banking information and the implementation of anti-abuse provisions. I would like, even if Mr Dallemagne is no longer here, to answer his question about an additional protocol. That is not excluded. If it is necessary, we can go to an additional protocol to make this exchange automatic in the texts. However, I will return to the commitments made by Seychelles in this regard. I'm a little more surprised to hear Mr. Van Hees, who in general explains that it is very precise in tax matters, repeatedly use the term tax haven by referring to the order implementing Article 203, § 1, of the Income Tax Code of 1992. Nowhere in this text is there any reference to it. It is simply a matter of not granting an exemption in respect of permanently taxed income where corporate tax is less than 15 %. Do not mix, especially since the text before you repeats the same logic, since, on the basis of Article 27 of the Treaty, the anti-abuse measures exclude any benefit of the system introduced for operators who pay less than 15% and whose primary objective is a tax advantage and not a real activity in the country. This is a first set of comments that I want to make. I believe that, in advancing this text, we are trying to take steps to integrate relations with Seychelles into the international order, but above all to fight more effectively, through anti-abuse measures, against the fraud mechanisms that could be put in place. I return to the commitments made by Seychelles. I am surprised that reference is made to many previous documents. Seychelles, like 84 other States, as I said in committee, have signed the Multilateral Convention on Mutual Administrative Assistance in Tax Matters. In addition, since September 2014, Seychelles has committed to an automatic exchange of information on banking institutions. There is therefore a development and a number of commitments have been made. For the rest, of course, I am not going to judge the quality of the work done at other levels of authority, Mr. Chairman. That's not our role. I listened carefully to Mr Van der Maelen's comments on the Flemish Parliament. I've never made such a comment myself. It is not my job to be so critical of my own party's group in another parliament. I must repeat that the first part of the text was signed in 2000. As Minister of Finance at the time, I am aware of that. An additional protocol was then drawn up, even when I was Minister of Finance. So I'm familiar with the reasoning. This text has gone through several governments, including governments with parties who are now so critical of this text. In the Flemish Region, the decree dates from 7 June 2013. In the Walloon Region, the decree dates from 13 March 2014. For the Brussels-Capital Region, it is dated 27 March 2014. I admit that outside of Mr. Van Hees, to whom I cannot say that his party was part of the federal government – fortunately! – or majorities or regional assemblies, all the other speakers belong to political formations which, whatever the contortions made at the sitting, have adopted without any hesitation these texts in regional parliaments. I think it is a bit surprising to hear here some accuse the government of promoting fraud when they have themselves, through their political formation, adopted these texts in regional assemblies. Either the fight against fraud plays only when one is in opposition, or from time to time it takes to assume its role in the majority. That's what we do! I therefore ask the majority to support it. I also thank cdH, because she wants to go in the same direction. The text makes it possible to be more efficient in the fight against tax fraud, including in our country. Mr President, I would like to say that I would like to hear an emotional plea against the government and against the majority and for a better fight against tax fraud, but not after a vote on the Treaty in the three regions. There's no point.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-28-54-plenair-ip048x.u118	Mr President, I said it in this Chamber 14 days ago. One should always listen very carefully to Didier Reynders. He always brings a very nice sounding story. He says that negotiations on this agreement started in 2006 and negotiations on the protocol in 2009. You as former Finance Minister and all fellow Finance Ministers who are members of the Finance Committee know that there is a wide difference between the period before 2010 and the period after 2010 in relation to the international approach to tax fraud. Mr Dallemagne said earlier that the Seychelles were removed from the blacklist in 2009. That's right, but it's about the blacklist at the time. It was then that twelve double taxation treaties were signed off the blacklist. I mentioned just now the list of countries with which a double taxation treaty was concluded. Between 2010 and now, the G20, the OECD and the European Commission have raised the bar many times. I cannot blame my fellow Members from the Walloon and Brussels regions and from the Flemish Community for not following this, because this is not their competence. The plenary vote in the Flemish Parliament took place on 29 May 2013. The first time the OECD regrouped a list on the basis of the stricter standards was November 2013, or about six months after the vote in the Flemish Parliament. Since 2013, the bar has been much higher. This majority will deliberately go under that higher bar during the vote. We have had a debate here on whether the opposition at the federal level should follow consistently the votes cast in the regional parliaments. We can argue in favour of this, but I would like to explain to you in a few points why we should not do so. Firstly, since the vote in the Flemish Parliament, the bar has been much higher. But there's also something else. Secondly, I ask MR, CD&V and Open Vld to be consistent with the vote they have cast, not in a regional parliament, but here in this Chamber. In 2010, after long work under the chairmanship of François-Xavier de Donnea, the Committee on Major Tax Fraud issued a recommendation which was unanimously adopted by the Chamber, except for............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ Perhaps that was already a harbinger of the fact that they would not be as fanatical as they would ever have a finance minister to deal with tax fraud. I read what was approved in 2010 by CD&V, MR and Open Vld, together with PS, sp.a and Groen. They agreed that, in line with OECD recommendations, no double taxation treaties would be concluded with tax havens. Ladies and gentlemen, if, in my opinion, we make a mistake in a regional parliament and we approve something wrong, I am not obliged to follow it. It is wrong to ask for consequences. However, if you want to be consistent with yourself, that committee was chaired by someone from the MR........................................................................................................................................................ You approved that only five years ago, but you will do just the opposite.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-28-54-plenair-ip048x.u119	Mr President, I feel addressed because I probably took part in that vote in the Flemish Parliament. I was very active there and I never knew that in the Finance Committee I was in charge of it, including Mr Van Malderen as a member, someone from the sp.a objected to it. I am not here in the Committee on External Relations, but in the Finance Committee, but I fully recognise, Mr Foreign Minister, what is going on in the Finance Committee. Luxembourg is also a tax haven. You may not conclude rulings with Luxembourg. Mr Van der Maelen has been talking about this for weeks now. The ruling committee concludes rulings with Luxembourg. Apparently, you can't do that. That would be illegal. He wants to go to the Constitutional Court because the ruling committee would be totally illegal and would promote fraud. The same goes for the regularizations with the BBI and so on. The theme of fraud is 80% to 85% of our committee's time. With Mr Laaouej's PS and Mr Van der Maelen's spa in the opposition, every problem is linked to fraud. We are talking about the Seychelles. I was aware that there was a discussion about this, but now I fully recognize your discourse, Mr Van der Maelen. Does that mean that we cannot cooperate with Luxembourg in any way? We now have an exchange of information. We have heard the ruling committee. Mrs Tai explained the discussion in 2002 and the new OECD directive, when it is compliant or non-compliant and when it is decided. As the Minister said, there is an evolution there. People are trying to get clearer and clearer. I fully recognise what the Minister has put forward. Mr van der Maelen, you are in a passionate struggle to give the impression that the Belgian Government, since the socialists are no longer in office, is fully engaged in promoting fraud internationally. Mr Van Hees even gives the MR the bank account, so that you can place money on the Internet. That Mr Van Hees says that, I understand, it's his core business. But, Mr Van der Maelen, because you are in opposition for a few months, you want to be the great white knight against tax fraud, while you have been in power for 25 years. Since 1988 you have been in power, with the exception of two years. Mr Laaouej, so is your party. Your party was in the government, wasn't it? You supported Mr Reynders for years when he was Minister of Finance. Even my party was more critical of him than the PS. Now you are here to lecture us on this agreement with Seychelles and to give the impression that this government and the current majority in this House are in some sort of international fraud plot. I understand that Mr Van Hees is saying that, but Mr Van der Maelen, you are completely out of character. I have listened carefully to the debate. I fully recognise what is happening in the Finance Committee. You're totally unbelievable!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-28-54-plenair-ip048x.u120	Mr Van Rompuy, you have just said that you recognise the strategy of the sp.a. or the strategy of Van der Maelen. You said that in the last few weeks and months you were wrong, but I can't blame you, because you weren't in the Chamber at the time. In 2007 I made a report for the Chamber of Commerce and Industry. I can give you that on the approach of tax havens. So I prepared that report when I was still part of the majority. At that time I made a number of concrete proposals for the Minister of Finance, but those proposals were not followed by the Minister. The current Minister for Foreign Affairs, then Minister for Finance, has never expressed his greatest concern about tackling international fraud. I have addressed him on several occasions, from the majority, I would say in the style of Van Rompuy. Then, Mr Van Rompuy, you mentioned the rulings. I will provide you with the report of the meeting at which Mrs Véronique Tai, chairman of the ruling committee, came to the Finance Committee in 2011. Even then, I was in the majority. I then told the chairman of the ruling committee that I would never believe that Belgium would get away with the excess profit rulings it was delivering. At the beginning of this year, I repeated that, and I remember that you laughed it away, along with other members of the majority. There he is again, you thought. Just fourteen days later, Belgium was asked by the European Commission to stop doing so and all the information was requested to be investigated. The European Commission does not make this public until it is almost certain that something is wrong. Anyone who knows anything about this matter, and you belong to it, but I think you are in bad faith and know that you will not get away with such matters. So please do not say that we are talking out of our necks like 14 days after we last said that, the European Commission is taking our side.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-28-54-plenair-ip048x.u121	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-28-54-plenair-ip048x.u122	I will end my speech. I didn't interrupt you either. You may replicate afterwards. Then there's Luxembourg. How dare you mention that? You are well aware that I have kept my very first interplay on this subject in your committee. There is a 2010 law of a party member of yours, Mr Carl Devlee, which states that if a country is considered non-compliant by the OECD, the Minister of Finance must send a letter informing all Belgian companies and companies that, if they achieve more than EUR 100 000 in business figures on an annual basis with Luxembourg companies, they must report it to the tax authorities. That's a law made by a party colleague of yours, approved by the Chamber, but the Minister of Finance refuses to implement it by means of a debrief. I have tabled a motion of recommendation on this matter. You pushed all that away. Now you say that we are not squeaking about Luxembourg, because Luxembourg, together with the Seychelles, is also on a list. My clog breaks when I hear that out of your mouth, Mr President of the Finance Committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-28-54-plenair-ip048x.u123	Mr Van der Maelen, I invite you to continue the discussion in the Finance Committee. However, you are talking about the past. Mrs Temmerman, when was the vote on the system of excess profit rulings? In 2004, when CD&V was in opposition. That is another of your initiatives. I've never heard any criticism of that. Now there is a complaint to the European Commission. In the meantime, the Minister of Finance no longer closes excess profit rulings. They've been put on hold. After all, there is a state aid complaint. Last week the TAXE Committee of the European Parliament was a guest of ours. That's where we're going next week. There is, of course, an evolution at international level and Belgium is prepared to adapt if there is European legislation banning excess profit rulings. However, we are fully in line with what is happening at European level. If we are stricter there, we will adapt to it. However, what bothers me, Mr van der Maelen, is that you give the impression that the government and Parliament are encouraging fraud, that we want to open up the offshore centres to invest there, that we are encouraging multinationals to tax their profits where they have to pay as little as possible. Yesterday we heard about the CCCTB, the Common Consolidated Corporate Tax Base, with a minimum tax and so on. The European Commission is working on a lot of initiatives and Belgium is even willing to go further than other countries. I invite you to come with us to the European Parliament on 17 June to confront Belgian policy in this area with what is happening in other European countries. If initiatives are taken at European level, Belgium will certainly adapt its legislation accordingly. You give the impression that, for example, the excess profit rulings are an invention of this government. You approved that, as did the notional interest. The system of excess profit rulings was approved by the Flemish socialists in 2004 with Minister Reynders and a purple government, while we were in opposition at that time. Now you come up with arguments that are really ripped off. I would have expected you to take into account some continuity, you have been here for so many years, and we should be able to confront you with your past. To get back to the starting point, I did not hear any criticism of the agreement with Seychelles in the Flemish Parliament in 2013 in the Finance Committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-28-54-plenair-ip048x.u124	Mr President, I regret to say to Mr Van Rompuy, who was then in the Flemish Parliament and I am not, that these treaty texts were not discussed in the Finance Committee but in the Flemish Parliament's Committee on External Relations, under the chairmanship of Mr Creyelman. Without any discussion, except for an introduction by the Minister on one page, 28 treaties were adopted at that meeting, including one relating to Seychelles. I don't know the start and end of that meeting, but I don't think she lasted more than an hour. We had to vote 28 times. Mr Van Rompuy, I am addressing you as chairman of the Finance Committee: I would like to announce that I will take an initiative shortly. This initiative is very simple: we are taking the last ten double taxation treaties that Belgium has concluded and we are asking the Court of Auditors, an independent institution with professional secrecy, to calculate the impact of these ten double taxation treaties on Belgian tax revenues. We will do so and then we will see whether what I said earlier on the floor is true, namely that it will be the only effect of this double taxation agreement in practice that companies with foreign activities located in Belgium will most likely install an establishment in the Seychelles and collect all their profits there that they will collect throughout the world. Before, when you were not here, I said that the Seychelles' tax system provides that foreign income will not be taxed in Seychelles. The load shall be zero. They will therefore bring in all their profits tax-free there and then they will pass them on to Belgium. I will not become too technical, but either they will pay zero percent or 50% of the ordinary tax rate on companies. That's what I'm saying. Are you a man of your word? We will not talk about the past anymore, but we will talk about the future. Well, I will put forward a resolution to allow the profits that we are missing from the ten double taxation treaties to be calculated. Then we'll see if you're right or if I'm right.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-28-54-plenair-ip048x.u125	Mr President, first of all, I would like to point out that this Treaty contains two elements: an element relating to the exchange of information, which is rather positive, even if it does not conform to the latest standard of automatic exchange in force and the dimension of non-double taxation. It is the latter that is problematic. Secondly, there was a new element, namely the latest OECD evaluation in February 2015 at a meeting in Istanbul and all the information we have, thanks to journalists, about LuxLeaks and other international fraud mechanisms. Thirdly, there is an anti-abuse clause in this text that can be considered positively if it is effective. To do this, it must be completed. This debate could have been held in committee. It is less effective than other countries, particularly the United States, but it also requires cooperation in tax matters from the country with which we work. This is the problem pointed out by the OECD with these International Business Companies, which are widely advertised on the Internet and which are used by Seychelles to organize opacity. Fourthly, some companies are actually active in Seychelles. I fear that, depending on their interests and demands, a mechanism will be created that goes far beyond them, while it was possible to respond differently to their legitimate concern not to pay twice the tax and to create a new tax evasion platform. Fifthly, I think it is necessary to assess all the non-double taxation treaties that we have signed on the basis of international fraud practices. Do they not promote tax evasion and financial loss for our state? Can't other techniques be used to avoid double taxation? This reflection is under way in the Netherlands. I invite you to pay attention to what's going on there. There is a systematic assessment of these conventions, sometimes a challenge and the adoption of internal tax rules that do not require the granting of benefits to countries that do not practice correctly at the tax level, as is the case on the basis of the latest information from Seychelles.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-28-54-plenair-ip048x.u126	Mr President, in reply to Mr Reynders, the Royal Decree implementing the Income Tax Code does not use the term "tax havens" but you can open any book, you will see that everyone mentions that this is the list of tax havens. I know you like to play with words. You're showing it once again. Moreover, what I find quite incredible is that, among all those who have defended this convention, no one is talking about the reality of Seychelles, namely how Seychelles plays a role as an effective tax haven today with billions of capital, with fictitious corporations by thousands. That's the reality. It's a reality you'd rather not talk about. Finally, Mr Reynders, I am not surprised that you are supporting a convention with a tax haven at arm's length because you yourself have contributed through your policy as Minister of Finance – you were not the only one – to making Belgium a tax haven too, with notional interests, excess profits and other measures. Finally, I take this agreement a bit like a convention between two tax havens, Seychelles and Belgium. I know that the majority will vote for this convention, but you will not win the tax "paradis", of course!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-28-54-plenair-ip048x.u127	Mr. Chairman, briefly, after hearing from the minister and our excellent colleague, Mr.Dallemagne, our group is all the more encouraged to vote on this bill. If I asked to be able to reply, it was also to highlight two points. On the one hand, I very much appreciate the humor, but I must say that I did not very much appreciate the ironic criticisms ad hominem from Mr. Van Hees. I don't think that's happening. I think he's out of his role. That's how it is. On the other hand, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the former Walloon MEP I am delighted with the way in which the work was organised in the Walloon Parliament where we had a real debate. Everyone was able to express themselves. I am really surprised at what I have heard from our colleague from the Flemish Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-28-54-plenair-ip048x.u128	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-28-54-plenair-ip048x.u129	Mr. Van Hees, you have the floor for a personal fact.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-28-54-plenair-ip048x.u130	Mr. Miller, it wasn't me who invented envelopes in your party.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-28-54-plenair-ip048x.u131	(...) The next time you look at me from the gallery telling me that I can log in to open an account there, I pledge, whenever you speak, to recall the crimes for which the ideology you claim is responsible! [[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-28-54-plenair-ip048x.u132	Mr Miller, I looked at you as I looked at the entire MR group. You're sitting in the middle of the group!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-28-54-plenair-ip048x.u133	We are not here to receive insults!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-28-54-plenair-ip048x.u134	Mr. Miller, I gave you an internet address, you're doing whatever you want.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-28-54-plenair-ip048x.u135	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-28-54-plenair-ip048x.u136	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1020/1) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1020/1) The draft law has 3 articles. The bill has three articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-28-54-plenair-ip048x.u137	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-28-54-plenair-ip048x.u138	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-28-54-plenair-ip048x.u139	Mr President, I would like to refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-28-54-plenair-ip048x.u140	Mr President, I will be quick, especially since Seychelles has taken a lot of time. This House will ratify a convention with Kosovo, which contains a clear principle: detainees are serving their sentences in their country of origin. This will be the case tomorrow for Belgians and Kosovars, as is already the case with eighteen European countries as well as with Morocco, Hong Kong, Thailand and, soon, with other states such as the Democratic Republic of the Congo, the Philippines, the Dominican Republic. Discussions are still under way on the basis of the conclusion and ratification of such a convention. The Reform Movement supports the conclusion and implementation of this type of convention, as it greatly facilitates the reintegration of a convicted person into his or her country of origin. In her cell, she talks to people who understand her, which is not necessarily the case here. The transfer of convicted persons to their country of origin therefore serves a humanitarian purpose and promotes their subsequent reintegration. It is easier for a prisoner who is serving his or her sentence in the vicinity of his or her family and cultural environment to find his or her marks once he or she has been released. This applies both to our nationals and to persons who are not Belgian nationals but who have been convicted by a Belgian court. Ladies and gentlemen, there is also a second objective at the conclusion of this Convention. We must respond to the challenges of prison overcrowding in our country. One of the answers to this problem is the fact that a person who is not Belgian is serving his or her sentence outside our territory. The MR Group therefore supports this policy and will vote in favour of this convention.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-28-54-plenair-ip048x.u141	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? ) The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-28-54-plenair-ip048x.u142	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1021/1) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1021/1) The draft law has two articles. The bill has two articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-28-54-plenair-ip048x.u143	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. Ladies and gentlemen, we are about to begin discussing the motions for resolutions. May I point out to you that I do not want to mean that there is still a solemn ceremony of honour waiting for us at the end of the plenary session and that a number of people have been invited to do so? They're not here, but they're waiting to use the word anyway. The debate must, of course, be able to proceed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-28-54-plenair-ip048x.u144	Proposals tabled by: Proposals submitted by: - 53: Nathalie Muylle, Nahima Lanjri, Sonja Becq, Roel Deseyn, Franky Demon, Els Van Hoof - 298: Maya Detiège, Meryame Kitir, Karin Temmerman, Alain Top, Ann Vanheste, Karin Jiroflée, Fatma Pehlivan - 445: Nele Lines I propose that a single discussion be devoted to these proposals. I propose that you devote a single discussion to these proposals.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-28-54-plenair-ip048x.u145	The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (53/7) The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (53/7) The meeting's open. The discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-28-54-plenair-ip048x.u146	Mr President, the committee has dealt with the joint proposals and finally worked with an amendment by Mrs Van Hoof which replaced the motion for a resolution and which served as a basic text for the discussion. We have devoted three committee meetings to this. The general discussion showed that there are around 20 000 to 25 000 patients with CVS who are long-term ill and have many complaints affecting their quality of life. There are two views on CVS, the biomedical model and the psychosocial model. Especially the psychosocial model is used. International research has shown that CVS is a multifactorial disorder and that a uniform treatment for the CVS patient will not be found. In addition, patients need to shop for far too long before they get the right diagnosis. We have an interesting report from the KCE with a number of recommendations to detect earlier and treat it better. Minister De Block has argued in committee for an evidence-based approach in cooperation with the Länder. Patients' associations have been widely heard, including during the previous legislature. Many in our committee were satisfied that the biomedical model also has room for manoeuvre. This text asks the federal government, among other things, that the Federal Health Knowledge Centre should be commissioned to evaluate the existing studies and scientific insights and to formulate substantiated recommendations on the approach of CVS, with respect for the two visions. She also called for a directive to be drawn up after the study through a working group to deal with the diagnosis and treatment of CVS. This involves monitoring multidisciplinarity, strengthening the role of the first line and paying attention, in consultation with the Communities, to training and reproduction, especially of doctors. In addition, the new multidisciplinary centres should be evaluated within four years. Finally, the proposal calls for the development of a flanking policy on sensitisation, information to the care staff and measures to resume work. During the discussion some technical and substantive amendments were introduced and adopted. In committee, the corrected motion for a resolution was adopted unanimously. So much for the report. I would just like to add that Ecolo-Green wants to support this motion for a resolution, because the concerns of patients' associations have been taken into account, because the biomedical model is given more attention, because multidisciplinaryism is given more attention, because primary care is given more attention, because more scientific research is requested and because our amendment on training and post-mortemisation has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-28-54-plenair-ip048x.u147	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, CVS unfortunately has 20 000 to 25 000 Belgians to deal with cans of incomprehension. Patients are often viewed as posers and are told that they do not need to exaggerate their tiredness. This shows that CVS remains a difficult-to-capture condition, with which not only the patient, but also his entire environment has problems. Today we adopt a proposal to improve the diagnosis and care of patients with CVS. After all, there is still no general consensus on the possible causes, diagnosis and the most consultative treatment of CVS. We want to break this process with our proposal. Mr Dedry has already explained very well how we will do that. We want to instruct the KCE to make an evaluation of the existing model, the only model to be repaid, in particular the biopsychosocial model. The problem is that not everyone has been helped by this and that CVS patients who have problems with treatment are targeting the non-scientific market and in this way getting into financial difficulties because they are being abused. We want, of course, to give the KCE the opportunity to focus more on CVS approaches that have so far been often neglected. This is about the biomedical model and other models that are used internationally. Apparently, there are medications that have proven successful in Canana and Scandinavia. This needs to be investigated in order to achieve a better diagnosis and treatment of CVS. On the basis of recommendations from the KCE, a directive should be drawn up in consultation with the field of action. It is also important to mention that in an open letter scientific institutions and universities have called for more research into the treatment of CVS, given that far too little multidisciplinary research is being carried out today. Our motion for a resolution repeats that question. In addition, primary health care needs to be much better informed, sensitised and formed so that care providers can make the right diagnosis and start the right treatment. The most important thing, however, is that the text wants to break down the biggest barriers around CVS. I insisted at the time on better integration of chronically ill people into the labour market. That certainly applies to CVS patients. The patients suffer from a cyclical disease and have good and bad moments. A partial resumption of work should be possible. We are also trying to involve the consultative and controlling physicians in the story. This allows some patients to resume work at certain times. Does our text solve all the problems? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, He does mean a step forward. Like my colleagues, I have received an e-mail from several patients. Among other things, I received an e-mail from a CVS patient's partner. As the husband of a CVS patient, that person is confronted every day with the consequences of that still misunderstood illness. The resolution is unlikely to change little in the complexity of the condition and the limited understanding of CVS mechanisms, but hopefully something about the often appalling way CVS patients are treated. I replied to that person that we are really expanding and that it is our ambition to achieve better scientific understanding and better treatment. I would like to thank all my fellow Members for their constructive cooperation. I also hope that the federal government will respond to our call by providing more scientific insight and by improving the treatment of CVS patients. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-28-54-plenair-ip048x.u148	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as Mrs Van Hoof said, chronic fatigue syndrome is sometimes being made a little laughy. People who are confronted with CVS encounter a great deal of incomprehension, primarily in their immediate surroundings, but also with doctors, caregivers and the rest of society. It's probably between the ears, they say. The prestigious American Institute of Medicine defines CVS as a severe chronic complex disease, and proposes replacing the term CVS with Systemic Exercise Intolerance Disease. It doesn't just happen. It wants to make it clear that the negative connotations surrounding the term CVS are unjustified. People with CVS aren't just tired, they're suffering from a condition. If we consider the Institute of Medicine to be the leading scientific voice in terms of diseases such as obesity, diabetes and cervical cancer, I think we should also take his message seriously when it comes to CVS. With this resolution, which was unanimously adopted in the Committee on Health, we as a Parliament are sending a clear signal to the CVS patients today and tomorrow. This Parliament recognises CVS as a disease and sets out measures leading to a more effective diagnosis and better care for CVS patients. The exact causes of CVS are not yet known. Several factors, both immunological, genetic and viral, have already been mentioned, but convincing evidence has not been found. Medical experts and researchers have long known that CVS is not an imaginary disease. However, this awareness has not yet been sufficiently understood by the general public and not even by the medical community. In 2004, drinking water in the Norwegian city of Bergen was accidentally contaminated with a giardia parasite. Several years later, a remarkable and temporary surge in the number of CVS diagnoses in Bergen was detected. It is obvious that not a lot of people suddenly decided to imagine the same thing at the same time. With this resolution, we want, first and foremost, the Health Care Knowledge Centre to carry out a study in which both the biomedical model and the biopsychosocial model receive adequate attention. The aim is to come up with scientifically based recommendations on the approach to CVS. On the basis of this research, the current Belgian policy on CVS should be reviewed and a directive on the diagnosis and treatment of CVS should then be drawn up. We also ask that the new multidisciplinary diagnostic centres, which have been operating for several months, be evaluated in four years at the latest on the basis of a number of clear criteria. Colleagues, as Mrs Van Hoof said, the number of patients with CVS in Belgium is estimated at 20 000 to 25 000. CVS is a severely disabled condition, which also affects young people. Compared to Belgium, much more is being devoted to research into the possible causes and treatments of CVS. With us the image of CVS dominates as being something that belongs purely to psychology. We urgently need to get rid of that image. We must not give people with CVS the feeling that they are standing in the cold. With this resolution, Parliament can bring about a turnaround for the many thousands of patients who struggle day in and day out with an unknown and crippling enemy. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank everyone, in particular the services and my fellow Members who have taken part in the debate. We know that it is a debate that started during the previous legislature. During that debate, patients' associations, doctors and experts were heard in committee, which in some cases led to very emotional scenes in the committee. In this respect, I would like to inform all patients that we have done our best. It is an important step forward. Moreover, we are always open to listening to them.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-28-54-plenair-ip048x.u149	Mr President, the introduction was broad. Allow me to comment only on what was important to our group in this resolution, in particular that the patient is at the heart of it. You have also seen that the patients' associations themselves support the resolution. Firstly, in order to help the patient, it is important that we proceed in a scientifically sound manner. This implies, first and foremost, extensive research into all the properly conducted scientific studies, all the practices and recommendations, and also and above all, whether or not well-intentioned practices that do not work and which actually reflect the hopes that these patients sometimes have. We think it is very important to protect patients from charlatans. Secondly, we don't think it's up to politics to make choices. Too little research has been done, there is too little conscience about this condition. So we need to focus on science. Let the KCE and the universities do their work in it, without us speaking as politicians instead of science. Thirdly and finally, we consider it important that the resolution should also take account of the past, the reference centres and the current diagnostic centres, and that it should express the will to involve them in the drafting of new agreements. For example, we know from previous experience with the reference centres that patients who have a longer period of diagnosis respond differently to treatments. Such points must be taken into account in the new agreements and treatments. Since the importance of evidence-based medicine and health technology assessment is at the forefront of this assessment, for which I refer specifically to recital J, and the patient is thus placed at the centre and protected from charlatans, we have contributed to this resolution and we support it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-28-54-plenair-ip048x.u150	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, I will not repeat what has been said about the etiology of pathology. Everyone knows that we are facing a syndrome whose causes remain unknown. I would like to focus on three points. First of all, I would point out that there is a strong demand from patients, and that we are associating them to take an appropriate therapeutic approach in our country, which is not yet the case, given the extremely disabling effects of this chronic fatigue syndrome. Family life is directly affected. Some members of the Commission had the opportunity to meet with people with this condition. We have seen how disabling it is. The MR welcomes the excellent teamwork that has been achieved. We took an active part in the debate because it seemed to us to be of paramount importance. In terms of studies, and in response to what Mrs Van Camp has just said, we know that these patients are not always taken seriously, especially in the professional setting. We don't know the origin of this pathology. A study was conducted at Columbia University, the results of which were reported by the Artsenkrant. She says: "The results are the first solid physical proof that this syndrome is very handicaping and that it is a biological disease identifiable by blood markers, not a psychological disorder." This element is fundamental, because it makes it possible to highlight the scientific problem of this pathology, which can be recognised. We stress that, if we have chronic fatigue syndrome on the one hand, it is difficult not to refer to fibromyalgia as well, these pathologies being relatively comparable. It is known that 70% of people with chronic fatigue also have fibromyalgia. This means that there is no need to make a difference in the treatment of these two diseases. In addition, we want to emphasize the importance of multidisciplinary management of this pathology. On the one hand, it is necessary to raise awareness, provide information and involve general practitioners in relation to initial contact with these patients and, on the other hand, to take the necessary steps with medical consultants to ensure that the assessment of patients suffering from chronic fatigue syndrome and fibromyalgia ensures that they are recognised and assisted in their daily work. This resolution contains thirteen recommendations. It will probably be possible to do better in the future. This is a long-awaited first step. We can only rejoice in that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-28-54-plenair-ip048x.u151	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the sp.a is pleased that we will finally adopt a series of recommendations with this Parliament on chronic fatigue syndrome. Around 25 000 Belgians today suffer from unexplained physical complaints. Patients with chronic fatigue syndrome often feel abandoned by the government. Their complaints are not recognised. They're being sent from the locker to the wall. They must, often with fall and stand up, seek the right treatment. It is confronting and poignant that CVS is severely disabled for many people and that the condition has a huge impact on the functioning of the patient and his or her environment. Compassion is nice, but they don't get far with that. Patients will not be helped with that. That is why this resolution does not come too soon. We therefore hope that she does not end up in a drawer. I hope that the government will commit to a concrete CVS action plan today. I'll come back to that later. We have organised an interesting hearing on the subject. With the sp.a we also organized a round table last year with patients and doctors from the field. After hearing everyone, we tabled a resolution with a number of majority groups. We have put it forward in committee as a priority proposal. We have made recommendations because we have had the impression that in the past decade there has been a certain standstill in the treatment of the disease, but after the dramatic testimonies of CVS patients this has changed. In addition, negative reports were also published on the treatment of CVS and the role that the reference centres would play in it. These negative assessments have put the approach in a crisis atmosphere for a while. The resolution calls once again for a positive and, above all, problem-solving approach. Perhaps, from our group, we can say the following about the work in the Committee on Health and Consumer Protection. It would have been better to have a joint resolution across the boundaries of majority and opposition, but that should not have been. Finally, we have noticed that the final text has found a great deal of inspiration in our text and in our suggestions, including on the recommendations on the training and training of care providers and on the assessment of people with CVS by controlling and consulting physicians. However, we believe that more attention could be paid to CVS among young people. The problem of misdiagnosed and, above all, late diagnosis of pathology for people suffering from Lyme disease has also been somewhat neglected in the resolution, but I understand that this will be dealt with by separate resolutions, including from our group. Ladies and gentlemen, we in the committee have finally fully supported the amended CVS resolution. The text was adopted unanimously and we will be supporting the resolution with the whole of our group in the final vote in this plenary. I'm gonna walk you through why we're gonna do that. Like the affected patients, our group looks forward with great interest to a multidisciplinary approach through diagnostic centres rather than reference centres, so that the quality of life can be improved. Furthermore, we are satisfied with the common thread through the recommendations, which makes the patient more central. For example, at the request of patients, we have explicitly acknowledged the need for additional efforts to give people with CVS a chance in education and in the labour market. On that last point, in the field of re-employment, we ask Minister Peeters and, above all, his regional colleagues for work to move beacons. Not all people who are diagnosed with CVS are suffering from fatigue. That's what we learned from the hearings. Some of them want and can return to work, but above all the reluctance of the employer and the mandatory provisions relating to the replacement income for illness or disability stand in the way. I can do better than that. We also see this in cancer patients, for example, and patients who need regular treatment. The resolution also focuses on sensitisation and research. A good knowledge of the disease is of course important for proper treatment. In the field of research, there are concrete recommendations that the Federal Knowledge Centre for Health Care wants to commission to make a thorough study of the so-called biopsychosocial model alongside the biomedical model. This comparison can then show evidence-based guidelines. We can then attach good information, training and training to healthcare providers. How the resolution came about certainly does not really play a role for the people affected by CVS. Often resolutions end in glory once they are approved. Our group would really like to see this resolution changed. I therefore call on the government, on the basis of this parliamentary commitment, to draw up concrete actions on the subject of debt instruments that we propose in the resolution. Under the coordination of ministers De Block and Peeters, and of course in consultation with the Land Ministers of Work and Education, a concrete action plan needs to be drawn up. Furthermore, progress must be evaluated and reported within a reasonable period of time in the Chamber's Health Committee. It is time for people who suffer greatly from their CVS disease every day to get a better diagnosis and, above all, treatment through concrete measures. Where necessary, we need to work out legislative changes so that it becomes more liveable for them, both at home and at work. I am counting on a strong commitment from the government and, above all, on a commitment from ministers De Block and Peeters, whom we are asking for tossing against this. We know they've definitely got enough weight. On behalf of the thousands of CVS patients, thank you for that!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-28-54-plenair-ip048x.u152	Mr President, as many things have already been said, I shall speak from my bench by synthesizing and summarizing a maximum. I would like to say here to some colleagues that the diagnosis of chronic fatigue syndrome is complex – you will agree – and that it is very often necessary to exclude a whole series of other diseases before we can make this diagnosis. The reality of patients is equally complex, since this pathology has an extremely disabling character. The social impact is enormous as well as often the impact on their professional investment. Secondly, I would like to stress the multidisciplinary approach which is obviously fundamental, even more so in pathologies such as this, not only in terms of diagnosis and management, but also in terms of the link with the first line. I will allow myself to plead again here – I will do so whenever necessary with the Minister of Health – to avoid too many directives, recommendations and other documents that are sent to caregivers. To make scientific recommendations on the basis of a study, of course, of the protocols of care, why not, but I do not think that any additional directive should be added. Finally, I still regret that, although we will obviously support this resolution, not only for all patients but also more particularly for the patients I have known personally. I shall end with a regret, which is why I will resubmit an amendment here. This regret is the problem of the means now available to the reference centres. This was the element that had been shown cross-cuttingly by both the caregivers themselves and the patient associations. I therefore table this amendment to ask that we can, first and foremost, ensure and ensure sufficient resources for multidisciplinary diagnostic reference centres. The challenge is to have quality care for all the patients involved.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-28-54-plenair-ip048x.u153	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The meeting's over. The discussion is closed. ******
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-28-54-plenair-ip048x.u154	Point/Question 14(n) • 11 - Catherine Fonck (53/4) ******
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-28-54-plenair-ip048x.u155	The vote on the amendment retained and on the whole of the proposal will take place later. The vote on the reserved amendment and on the whole proposal will take place at a later stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-28-54-plenair-ip048x.u156	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Nahima Lanjri, Valerie Van Peel, Damien Thiéry, Ine Somers, Denis Ducarme, Nathalie Muylle, Stefaan Vercamer, Els Van Hoof, Dirk Janssens
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-28-54-plenair-ip048x.u157	The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1052/4) The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1052/4) The meeting's open. The discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-28-54-plenair-ip048x.u158	Mr President, given the length of the debates in committee and, finally, the way in which this dossier has been debated and has led to a proposal that satisfies us, we are going back to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-28-54-plenair-ip048x.u159	Mr President, I also rely on the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-28-54-plenair-ip048x.u160	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, 15% of Belgians are at risk of poverty on the basis of income. That figure affects each of us. Moreover, the face of poverty changes over and over again, making the struggle very complex. That must not stop us, however. Poverty makes it difficult to lead a decent life, prevents the inclusion of social rights and hinders the development of talents and opportunities for the future. The fight against poverty is therefore one for which we should all work together. With this resolution, we want to continue to support and keep up this government, which is already taking a lot of structural steps. A society can only be proud of itself if everyone can come along. This must therefore remain a priority for this government and for this Parliament. This requires more than just a vertical policy. As included in this resolution, an effective approach to poverty requires that all ministers, each within his or her powers, feel addressed. Only a complete package of structural measures in our labour market policy, our health policy, our equal opportunities policy and so on can make a difference. I will not list everything, but a structural approach means, for example, bet on activation in one way or another. A job is still the best way out of poverty and the best way to avoid getting caught up in it. This government is committed to job creation and the lead to jobs, but we also include it in this resolution, because it will be necessary to continue to do so in the future. A structural approach to the fight against poverty also means supporting those who cannot go along with it enough to live decently. That is why the lowest benefits should be raised to the European poverty line. This commitment, ladies and gentlemen, has been the first ever to include this government in its coalition agreement. A first step was already taken for this commitment in budgetary difficult times, using 100% of the wealth envelope for this purpose. Achieving that poverty line must and will be a top priority for this government. It is the same for the signatories to this resolution. We also want, for example, a policy of subsidies to ensure that projects can be anchored, that rights to benefits are granted as automatically as possible, and that there is structural consultation with all those concerned about poverty. We want, for example, the continued use of accessible health care, including the introduction of a social and later general third-party payment scheme for the general practitioner. Quality care is and must be a basic right for everyone. In short, with this resolution, we advocate an approach that guarantees everyone's rights, but we are also committed to a future path of poverty. We are focusing on self-reliance rather than on benefit dependency because this is really helping. We want to support this government so that everyone who wants to move forward gets the opportunity and is encouraged to do so. Those for whom this is not possible must be taken in a better way than is the case today, now and in the future. That is what is now before us and on which this government is committed. With Secretary of State Elke Sleurs, this government also has a strong person in its ranks to ensure that this struggle will be fought on all fronts during this legislature. The fight against poverty must stop only if no person, no child, has to live in poverty. Our group supports this resolution because it is committed to a structural approach to the fight. It stresses and reinforces the steps already included in the coalition agreement. It is now up to us to ensure that we do not lose sight of this in the years to come. Poverty concerns everyone. Responsibility and solidarity towards those who need our help are one of the core values of our social model. I can therefore only hope, ladies and gentlemen, that this issue will not continue to be a political one, because it does not deserve it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-28-54-plenair-ip048x.u161	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we must get out of the political games, I hear you well. The PS group has always made the fight against poverty a priority. Combating poverty among pensioners, workers, unemployed persons, women and children. Poverty is multidimensional; it is not limited at all to the lack of money alone. We must fight it with strength and commitment. However, today, and I will explain to myself, my group will not vote in favour of this resolution because the text before us does not make the fight against poverty a top priority. I apologise, but this text seems to me to be a weak catalogue of good intentions that we do not believe in! Yet, what a great opportunity missed! A text had been tabled by the CD&V on the benches of the Public Health Commission. We welcomed him enthusiastically. Of course, some things had to be corrected. We were at the beginning of the legislature. This text contained generosity, strong commitments and interesting elements. This was the ideal time, it seemed to us, to establish guidelines for an effective, coherent and ambitious anti-poverty policy. Today, unfortunately, this is not the case. As I said, we found that there were some shortcomings, some things to correct, which is why we asked, along with others, for hearings to be held. Many people introduced themselves, shared their experiences, their way of looking at things, actors on the ground, representatives of networks. These hearings brought real added value that could have been incorporated into the text. This added value had made it possible to identify the strengths of the text – I repeat, there were strong elements in the basic text – but also its weaknesses. We had therefore tried to improve it by drafting a whole series of amendments. It can be understood, after the hearings and the amendments transmitted, that the group with this text intends to reflect, to start some discussions and to examine what it might or might not include. Days and weeks have passed. I assume that consultations have taken place, certainly not with those who have tabled amendments. A new text has been presented to us, the one which is before us today and which will be put to our vote later. I'd tend to say everything: that for that! All this work, all that energy deployed, all that commitment of the actors on the ground for that! It's a real step backwards! The CPAS federations, the Unions of cities and communes, the Anti-Poverty Service, the Walloon Anti-Poverty Network, all were interviewed, offered real hopes, drew our attention to progress to be made, expected commitments from us, and expected commitments from the government. They were not asked to return. To me, asking them to come back was simply to hear their disappointment and to tell them about the lack of regard for parliament and the majority and the lack of consideration for their comments, the remarks they made and to show them that nothing, nothing, nothing was taken into account, while excellent proposals had been put on the table. However, some fifty amendments were introduced in order to meet their expectations. You can therefore imagine their first disappointment, that of finding that no amendment had been accepted; the second, that beyond the amendments, in relation to the basic text, it is only a real step backwards that has been made. I can understand that, in relation to the initial text tabled, even before a government agreement is reached, a few changes may need to be considered. But in relation to this basic text, there is nothing dramatic, even though some questions may arise. Instead of an ambitious text, we find ourselves with a diminished text which is, in fact, a declaration of intent. You will allow me to say that this is not the way out of poverty or the risk of poverty for the 472,000 people involved. The debate was interesting, everyone was able to present their ideas in committee, but I have to take up some elements that I think are important. In the government agreement, I understood that the fight against poverty, beyond other measures, was a top priority. According to the Minister's statements, this was a real top priority. This week, in committee, she said that her third anti-poverty plan was to be released in the last half of 2015 and that it would be debated in parliament. The fact that you have removed the absolute qualifier in the new motion for a resolution seems to show that it is no longer an absolute priority on your part. This may be one of the government's objectives. The motion for a resolution says that this is a priority. Based on the statements made during the presentation of the Government Agreement, it was expected that this would be a top priority. That's not the case anymore. You will easily understand that we can only regret it. We could have expected something else from you, especially based on the statements we heard. The first resolution included an ambitious federal plan with clearly quantified and time-bound strategic and operational objectives. It's not asking the government for insurmountable things! As I have just said, the Minister will table her plan in the last half of 2015. What did it cost to leave that? I can understand that programming clearly quantified and time-bound operational objectives is difficult. However, it is possible to stagger during this or the next legislature, depending on the availability of funds. That's how you usually act. No one will contradict me on this point. No, we just delete it. Admit that this is not a great ambition! When we propose to re-register it by means of an amendment, you are sweeping our suggestion. Other things seem important to me. In her policy note, the Minister addressed the networks of public servants. This was included in the basic motion for a resolution tabled by the CD&V in August. This is no longer in the news. That was your statement, Madam Minister. Why remove these networks of public servants? They must allow each minister to see what is happening with the implementation of policies; they will understand the cross-cutting aspect. The role of the contact person, referred to by the minister, in each administration is fundamental. It allows for consultation. I am thinking in particular of the experts of the experience, which you mentioned in your general policy note. This simply disappears from the resolution. It's still unfortunate, don't you think? What a lack of ambition! The experts of the experience allow the minister to refer to it. I won't do it to you to repeat the answer you gave me this week. But it would have been so good if it had been mentioned in the text. It didn't cost anything, especially since that's what you want to put in place. That's very sad! Another ambition was in the Prime Minister's statement on raising certain incomes so that they could reach the European poverty line. It was true that it was important to know where the budgetary situation was. Perhaps the first resolution went a little further by talking about a standard of growth that provided for fundamental increases to reach the minimum level above the poverty line, namely structural adjustment to the welfare of replacement allowances and incomes so that they were more in line with the real needs of the beneficiaries. All this is purely and simply stratified. However, the aim was to bring them to the level of the European poverty line. This is a resolution. It was a government statement. This should be done taking into account the social benefits associated with certain social benefits. This is reflected in the government agreement. With the resolution, one could afford to go a little further than merely acknowledgment of the government's statement. We are in the context of a resolution; we are asking the government to go to a better place for people, to go to a better account of their situation, including their income, so that they really get income that meets their real needs. As we know, this often takes place according to the budgetary context and the means available. This could have simply been maintained. I find this sad and unfortunate for people. They are not given the opportunity to have more important objectives than the simple government agreement. It's true that I understand you a little. It is very sad to remove certain measures and take others to develop a fair, simple and transparent tax system, ensuring that it applies in a balanced manner to different forms of income (labour, wealth) and consumption, reducing and rationalizing the number of deduction items. This reminds me of a great debate in your house today: the tax shift. I expected that the CD&V would absolutely want to maintain this element in the context of the resolution. It contained important things. I do not understand, if I refer to the statements of your President, Mr Beke, and to the statements of Mr Peeters, who said that a tax shift was necessary to respond to the feeling of social injustice. I do not understand that this is not maintained in the resolution. Perhaps Mr. Delbaere's statement that the tax shift is not necessary is more important than that of the President of the CD&V or Deputy Prime Minister Peeters. I believe that the element could have been retained in the context of this resolution. In order not to completely repeat the debate, I come to other elements in terms of income and social tariffs. You are planning an evaluation and an improvement of social rates, this is again the content of the government's only statement. The only good element is the automaticity of rights. Let's recognize him! Luckily, you kept it. It's already that. Let's talk about work. You have changed the whole economy of the resolution you set up. Compared to the original proposal, only activation remains and nothing else. Ends the fight against inactivity traps, the improvement of the situation of persons with disabilities on the labour market, etc. However, beyond activation and re-employment, it is known that the number of people who work and receive additional income from integration – a pity that Mr. Borsus is absent – because the income they earn from their work is too low is increasing. There were 6,000 people in 2013. In ten years, the number of workers receiving social integration income has increased from 3 to 6 per cent. It's huge! What are you doing? Abolition of the point to ensure that "the weakest groups and those furthest from the labour market receive more attention in the context of employment policy in general and the policy of activation of the unemployed in particular and that tailored intensive support can as far as possible be provided for specific target groups". It is fundamental in the fight against poverty! As we know, this is fundamental for the support of people in the labour market. We know that it is necessary to start with social integration before integration through employment. You simply remove it! You also delete the point that "as part of the support given to the economy to be sufficiently attentive to the resulting job creation while making a useful effort to also offer low-skilled people quality jobs". And just low cost jobs for them then? That's what you're saying by simply deleting that sentence when it had all its meaning. You also delete the point "to increase minimum wages in order to avoid job traps and reduce the number of poor workers". Yet that is what I heard in the Prime Minister's government statement before Parliament. I believe that this is one of the government's driving lines to encourage people to work and to prevent them from finding themselves in the benefit system. That is what you say within the majority. And you simply delete this sentence from your resolution! How coherent are you in your way of proceeding and putting in place a resolution to combat poverty? Let us talk about health care, as I have already told you, Madam Minister: we want a cross-cutting policy in the fight against poverty. We know well, and you know, as you have already said, that this is not just a problem of income or social integration. It's often a mental health problem. This was included in the first resolution. But we know that mental health care is not necessarily accessible and affordable for everyone. There is not necessarily adequate reimbursement for the treatment of clinician psychologists, psychotherapists, orthopedagogues, as part of the course of care. It seems to me that it would have been important, in terms of the future perspective and the implementation of real cross-cutting policies, to maintain this issue of mental health in the resolution. In the fight against poverty, should public hospitals be alone in caring for people in poverty? I don't think so. However, you have removed the point of requiring non-hospital care providers, for example in private clinics, to meet the same quality standards and to comply with a series of collective missions and agreements that ensure continuity and availability of care. So the image you give is to drive the poor out of private clinics. Is that really what it is to fight poverty? In terms of energy, virtually the entire CD&V proposal has been deleted. All that remains is the reform of social tariffs, a great melting pot of social tariffs. Practically, this means a planing down. This is in any case the impression that it gives, when there was a great and real ambition: to make energy prices affordable, to guarantee access to energy and to include it in Article 23 of the Constitution. It was an ambition in the head of a resolution to tell the government to put this within the framework of the Constitution. Unfortunately, this is no longer included in the text. I believe that limiting ourselves, in a resolution, to the government agreement falls short of what is expected from a resolution put forward by Parliament. This is a real step backwards with regard to a first resolution that has been tabled. That is simply to say to the people who have demonstrated in relation to certain measures that you have taken and who announce that they will remanife in relation to these same measures because they do not accept them, that your government's objective is not to fight poverty. How can poverty be combated when supporting measures such as index skipping, reducing the income guarantee allowance, abolishing the pension bonus, restricting the compulsory paying third party? These are all measures that pose an increased risk of poverty. People are weakened by these measures, by this policy: the unemployed, part-time workers, women for the most part – and you say, Madam Minister, be very attentive to the situation of women – single-parent families or the elderly. How can we combat poverty when you refuse to sink this policy into this ambitious Federal Plan to Combat Poverty on the basis of quantified and time-bound targets? Today, he's not here. You're announcing it for the second half of 2015. I hope that there will be quantified and time-bound targets and that your commitments will be fulfilled. How can we combat poverty when you do not effectively raise minimum social security and social assistance benefits beyond the poverty line while at the same time guaranteeing the associated social benefits? I would like to remind you of what you are announcing: "Yes, we are going to pick up but taking into account the benefits and therefore diminish because we will take into account the benefits". How can we combat poverty when you decide not to mention clearly the need for a shift tax that lowers taxes on labour and increases taxes on capital income and big fortunes? How can we combat poverty when, in the final text, you simply remove the need to strengthen compulsory solidarity health insurance? How can we combat poverty when you refuse to extend the social-paying third-party scheme? How can we combat poverty, when you do not agree to defend access to justice for the poorest people and for low-income citizens by improving the quality of legal aid? How can we combat poverty when you refuse to provide for the maintenance of the Fuel Fund and the social tariff for electricity and natural gas? How can poverty be combated without adequate funding for CPAS, which are crucial players in this fight? You don't fight poverty. You claim to do so through this resolution with an ambitious title, but which is far from meeting the expectations of people in precarious situations and the expectations of actors on the ground. You'll excuse me, it's a missed opportunity and it's up to you to explain it to the people who took the trouble of moving to committee to make themselves heard.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-28-54-plenair-ip048x.u162	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, the debate that took place in committee was extremely interesting and gave rise to very detailed analyses. A number of amendments were tabled. It must be noted that we were not always on the same wavelength. What is certain is that with this motion for a resolution, the majority is committed to dealing with the problem of poverty – which is something that some people do not like! – and to place it at the heart of the concerns. This issue is also widely addressed in the government agreement. That is why we are referring to it and we have decided to move the matter forward. Poverty is a multidimensional phenomenon, against which we must fight in the different policy areas, which are also the different levels of power and the different actors, which does not make the situation extremely easy. This motion for a resolution is rather dense and defined on eleven axes. I join Mr Massin in saying that there is no miracle solution, that we cannot do everything at once. I will allow myself to point out a number of clear advances, as reflected in this resolution. With regard to income, it has been stated on several occasions that the government's objective is to gradually raise the minimum social security and social assistance benefits to the level of the European poverty line. I clearly believe that this motion for a resolution reaffirms this objective. It can also be recalled that the distribution of the welfare envelopes 2015 and 2016, which was carried out in full consultation with the social partners, gives priority to recipients who are at greatest risk of poverty, avoiding the pitfalls of employment and inactivity. I will return to that point. With regard to pensions, there are clear elements: an increase of 2 % for minimum pensions, a specific increase in older pensions, an increase in holiday pay of 15 % compared to the 2012 ceiling, an increase in the minimum pensions applicable in the event of a mixed career to guarantee the pensioner concerned the equivalent of the minimum pension provided for in the 2015 scheme. Let us not say that with this resolution, there is no progress. On the contrary! The question is whether we want to move forward at the same time or whether we are working in an orderly manner. In the context of this resolution, we have chosen the second option. With regard to sickness and disability insurance, I stress the catch-up premium for disabled people who have been incapacitated for more than two years and who are increased by 160 euros per year. We may not say it enough, but this is a reality. The maximum daily allowances for persons with incapacity for work also increase by 1.5% from 1 April. The minimum amounts will increase by 2 per cent from 1 September. This time, in terms of social integration, I would point out that the basic amounts of integration income will be increased by 2% as of September 1, 2015. Another element that is extremely important to us is work. It is he who, in our view, remains above all the best remedy for poverty. Get people back to work. We want to avoid job traps because they discourage certain categories of social workers from starting or continuing a job. Disability also contributes to the person's vulnerability in terms of employment and social inclusion. The financing of care and the management of the disability situation reinforce the risk of poverty. This is one of the reasons why the MR, certainly, will pay particular attention to the need to restrict or eliminate what is more commonly called the "price of love" and the "price of work". Unfortunately, health is too often a luxury for those who are precarised. The right to quality and accessible health care is obviously fundamental. I believe that the Minister of Health is doing this through simplification, transparency, accessibility and democratisation of care. We can only encourage him in this direction. It must be acknowledged that the Minister of Health regularly comes to committee to inform us of the progress of her projects. We therefore welcome its effectiveness. Access to housing is also a major issue. This struggle requires negotiation with the federated entities. That is why it is not always easy to move forward as fast as we want. With regard to social integration, I have heard some of the elements relating to the proposals of Minister Borsus. I would simply like to point out the political priorities that have already been mentioned, namely: activation as a better lever to break the vicious cycle of poverty; improvement and simplification of the right to social integration and the right to social assistance; an active policy for CPAS in order to prevent poverty reduction. When I hear that Minister Borsus has not gone far enough in his work, these are at least three themes that clearly demonstrate that time must be given. It is of course in this way that we can develop new measures in terms of social integration. Finally, a lot has already been said about tax evasion, but social fraud also exists. This is an important part of this resolution. Care must be taken to ensure that the resources available are allocated to those who have the right to do so and who need them most. As I said, although this resolution is extremely dense, you will not find there all the concrete actions that everyone would have wanted to see. In the meantime, we are undertaking a number of concrete actions that are achievable. That is what we want to insist on, because the text originally presented has undergone important changes through consensus. It is this text that we will support earlier.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-28-54-plenair-ip048x.u163	Mr President, Mr Thiéry has just said that social fraud was important. Do you know what percentage of integration income recipients these cases represent and what is the average amount of these frauds? If not, I have the answer and I'll give it to you. I'm waiting for you to tell me if you know these numbers or not.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-28-54-plenair-ip048x.u164	Bringing the debate to a certain number of percentages is a question that could certainly have been asked in the committee, in which case I could have given you an extremely clear answer. However, I understand from your speech that you are probably trying to repeat the debate that has already taken place in committee, because you have re-used all this argument put forward in committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-28-54-plenair-ip048x.u165	Not at all. But from the moment you're talking about important fraud, I'm asking you if you know the numbers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-28-54-plenair-ip048x.u166	I'm not in a position to give you the exact figures. What is obvious is that hiding one type of fraud by another is absolutely not acceptable.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-28-54-plenair-ip048x.u167	That's not what I said at all. Don't betray my thought, please. Fraud affects 1.6% of the beneficiaries of social integration income. The average amount of this fraud is 1,600 euros. Don't come to say that this fraud is important.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-28-54-plenair-ip048x.u168	It is important because fraud is not acceptable in our system and we must fight it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-28-54-plenair-ip048x.u169	It's another way of presenting things.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-28-54-plenair-ip048x.u170	Let's be clear. We have already had a debate on this, and we will have more. It is clear that this resolution is not moving fast enough, but it has at least the merit, Mr Massin, of moving things forward. We are not on the same wavelength, this is not the first time and it will certainly not be the last either.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-28-54-plenair-ip048x.u171	Mr President, Mr Thiéry's assessment of the scope of the resolution is normal. But there are two things I can't accept. On the one hand, to affirm that this resolution is a step forward while it does not contain any different elements of the government declaration. A parliamentary resolution is for Parliament to ask the government to do more than it already does. I wonder what this resolution really is for. On the other hand, when you say that we have had an in-depth debate, the opposition has conducted a given debate. But what happened in committee? After half an hour, there was no reaction from the majority. That's deplorable. The majority did not dare; they could not argue their choices to reduce the scope of the original resolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-28-54-plenair-ip048x.u172	Mrs Gerkens, you do and you have done your job as Chair of the Public Health Committee. I recognize that this work is not always easy, and we have some discussions in committee as to how it should be done. At the same time, I think you have the right not to agree with what we have proposed. You have the right to give your opinion. I imagine that you will come here to the rostrum to explain not only your position, but also to defend a number of amendments. Just acknowledge, Madam President, that there are times when we are not on the same wavelength. We just have to respect it. As for the work done in this committee, I was there, I followed closely what was said about it, and I also followed closely the presentation of the fifty amendments in question. These were not only Mr Massin's fifty amendments, in any case the PS; there were other amendments which were also thoroughly studied and taken into account. To say that the opposition's work was rejected as if it had done nothing is totally false. There are some amendments which absolutely did not correspond to the will and context of the written resolution; for them, we did not want to go further in the debate. You have to accept it, too. It's everyone's right. I have accepted the 50 amendments which do not correspond to our mentality and our desire in the preparation of this text. That's right. That is why we did not vote on them. It's as simple as that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-28-54-plenair-ip048x.u173	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, 15% of Belgians, or 1.6 million, are at risk of poverty because they have to live on under-income below the European poverty line. For those who do not know: the European poverty line is for a single person at EUR 1 074 and for a couple with two children at EUR 2 256. When we compare it with a number of other European countries, we find that Italy and Spain fluctuate around 19% and 20%, while the European average is almost 17%. We can therefore say that Belgium is not doing so badly. In the end, however, 15% is still far too much. After all, people are hiding behind these figures. Every person living in poverty is one person too much. Ladies and gentlemen, there have been years in the past in which we even exceeded that percentage. However, 15% is too high, especially since we have to observe that we have one of the better social security systems, perhaps even the best system in the world. Nevertheless, we do not seem to be able to provide the necessary protection for everyone. Apparently, the umbrella of our social security is leaking. So there is still a great deal of work to be done to tackle this poverty. Every poor man is a poor man too much. After all, it's always about a person, about someone who doesn't get the ends tied together at the end of the month, who can't afford an outing for the children and that's all. For them, we must continue to fight poverty. Anyone who has been doing politics for a little longer can say that unfortunately there are no magic tools. If we had them, we'd probably have used them a long time ago. There are no simple solutions to tackle poverty. Otherwise, we would have used them by now. In the previous governments too, together with the Socialists, we might have used those solutions or wands in that case. Indeed, we were also in those governments, but we also had no magical means. I admit that. However, I am very realistic and, at the same time, very ambitious to tackle the problem of poverty. If we want to tackle poverty, we have to work on all fronts at the same time. This is important not only in terms of income, but also in terms of employment, fair taxation, education, housing and so on. As far as federal powers are concerned, we have included eleven areas in the resolution in which the Federal Parliament can be active. That is why, with this majority, we have drawn up a resolution that wants to be active in all these areas. I am pleased that my resolution has served as a starting point and that we have come together to come up with a set of recommendations. We can go to the government with very specific proposals and then also keep our finger on the pulse to see if the proposals we have put forward are being implemented by this government. I would therefore like to thank all those who have contributed to this resolution, majority and sometimes even opposition. I would particularly like to thank the people who fight every day, the people in the field who are actually fighting poverty and not just in their daily work. They came to the committee in Parliament and we heard them there in hearings. We have heard them all: the Support for Combating Poverty, Insecurity and Social Exploitation, the VVSG, the federations of OCMWS, both on the French-speaking and Dutch-speaking sides, the Network against Poverty and le Réseau Wallon de Lutte contre la Pauvreté. We have taken their comments into account in our resolution. They've been able to determine that for themselves. Their daily commitment on the ground should be an example for us politicians and should make us realise that nothing, but nothing in our welfare state, is self-evident. Colleagues, poverty is an assassin. Like an assassin, poverty strikes people who do not see it coming at all, someone who suddenly loses his job because of restructuring, someone who becomes ill for a long time or who has an accident at work. This is also reflected in the figures: 46% of the unemployed live in poverty. If we want to tackle poverty, we need to focus on work. Work is the main buffer against poverty. That's why this government wants to make a full commitment to work. The supervision of the unemployed is, of course, a matter for the sub-governments. According to the latest figures from the Planning Bureau, the reductions in charges and the other measures taken by this government, together with normal economic growth, represent 200,000 additional jobs by 2020. Those numbers take into account the part of jobs that is lost. This is an important boost for the many unemployed who are now looking in vain for a suitable job. It is not only people without work that are more likely to find themselves in poverty. People who live on a benefit or a small pension may also end up in poverty. To avoid this, we will increase the minimum benefits to the European poverty line. Mr Massin, you may be critical of this, but it is the first time that a majority has included it in the coalition agreement. I wish it had happened sooner, but unfortunately that is not the case. Now it's in writing in the coalition agreement. We will stick to raising the lowest incomes, benefits and pensions to the European poverty line. The minimum pensions will even be increased to 10% above that poverty threshold. That is not an empty promise, because the government has already allocated EUR 1.5 billion to it. Mr Thiéry has already mentioned some figures. All minima rise by 2 %. The holiday allowance for disabled persons increases by as much as 50%. It will go from 308 to 468 euros. In the next few years, we will focus on this, because income is important. Colleagues, who cannot make ends meet, are often poorly housed, save on heating, eat less often, worse or sometimes not at all, and are also more often ill. Yet people in poverty often postpone their doctor's visit because of the costs. Poverty is therefore often a health enemy. That is why we are calling in this resolution for the guarantee of quality but also affordable health care. We are doing this through very concrete measures: transparent prices and tariffs in hospitals, affordable mental health care, compulsory third-party payment to general practitioners, limitation of the supplements and so on. Colleagues, poverty is also a merciless settler, because often people live in poverty with debt. These are often caused by high house prices and high energy prices. On top of that, the interest on the amount due is added. This gives rise to situations where people sometimes have to pay more than the amount originally due. Sometimes interest and court fees have to be paid on an amount of 7 euros, up to 200 euros. In order to break that spiral, we propose that payments be made first on the principal and then on the interest. That is one of many new proposals in this resolution, but it is important to take the trouble to read and see them. In this resolution we also advocate the automatic allocation of rights. Too often we notice that it has a matthew effect, that those who know their way around are getting more and more and those who do not know that they are entitled to something, for example, leave a certain benefit. That is why we call for these rights to be granted automatically wherever possible. This could be about the income guarantee for the elderly, the social telephone tariff or health care. Ladies and gentlemen, the examples I have listed are just some of the many concrete policies that we have included in this resolution. It is clear that the fight against poverty must be pursued at the same time on all fronts, not just at the federal level, but at all levels of policy. Everyone has a great responsibility in that. Sometimes it sounds like it's just a resolution, that it could have been more or that it was more, but it's been watered down. For us, this resolution is not simply non-binding. The resolution we are about to adopt is a reference document. Not only the competent Secretary of State, Mrs Sleurs, but every minister will have to do his homework and get to work on that resolution. I actually regard Mrs Sleurs as the watchdog of a good poverty policy, and that is what I mean positively. Madam Secretary of State, you must ensure that the other ministers do their job and that poverty is tackled at the same time on all fronts, because it is not a matter for one minister or for one level of policy. It goes from municipal through regional and federal to even European level. According to externals, including the Anti-Poverty Network, our resolution is very ambitious and contains very ambitious measures. That's right, and that's the point. After all, people are hiding behind the poverty figures, and every human being in poverty is one too many. So we have a duty to be ambitious when it comes to combating poverty. Legacy or indifference to poverty is the worst thing that could happen to our welfare society. This majority has the ambition not to be indifferent to poverty in our society. Even more, this majority wants at least 472,000 Belgians less in poverty by 2018 compared to 2010. This figure used to be 360 000 people, but unfortunately this number has increased because poverty has increased in recent years, so unfortunately we have a number of 472 000 Belgians. By 2018, we want those 472 000 people out of poverty. That is our commitment in the framework of Europe 2020. I therefore call on everyone, including the opposition, to support our resolution and to work together to eradicate inequality and poverty from our society.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-28-54-plenair-ip048x.u174	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, most of the time we are sitting here defending a position with fire or arguing against it with fire. Today, however, the dominant feeling is disappointment. I feel disappointment about the missed opportunity, especially the opportunity to send a clear signal here in Parliament that we are serious about the fight against poverty. Ladies and gentlemen, we have missed that opportunity. I am also disappointed by the fact that a colleague, whom I mostly appreciate very much for her views, has turned her own substantively strong proposal of resolution into a weakened version of the majority, the sole purpose of which is to spare the government. I also feel disappointment, because CD&V, from whom I had expected a real statement in the field of poverty, is playing that game of the majority and that still in connection with a subject that I thought until recently was her core business. Combating poverty is not a side issue. For sp.a, this must be one of the priorities of the policy. That is why we were very keen to contribute to a motion for a resolution which could be carried on a wide-ranging basis. Mrs Lanjri's first text was perfect and a good starting point. However, the government decided differently:game over for Ms. Lanjri. Ladies and gentlemen, we need to discuss a motion for a resolution, which is at the heart of the matter, which seeks to combat poverty.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-28-54-plenair-ip048x.u175	Mrs Jiroflée, Mrs Van Peel would like to interrupt your speech.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-28-54-plenair-ip048x.u176	Mrs Jiroflée, I must say that I am getting a little tired of the indignation you and your party have played in such debates. You want to talk now about who exactly the signatories to the motion for a resolution are rather than talking about content. You want to pretend that poverty has started with our government, while the figures contradict you. I'll tell you more. It has been mentioned here that for the first time the current government is taking up the commitment to do something very structural in the fight against poverty. It wants to raise the lowest benefits to the level of the poverty line. Do you know why that's such a big challenge today? That is because your governments, as the governments of which your party was a member, have allowed the poverty gap to become so great and that commitment has never been accepted before. That's why.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-28-54-plenair-ip048x.u177	Mrs van Peel, the government has written this in its declaration of government and let us stick with it for the time being. Whatever ends up in front of the rest of it, we still need to see. I really want to talk about the content. I'll prove I'm right. The present proposal for a resolution, which is above all a resolution on the fight against poverty, is full of empty words. Let me give you a few examples, Mrs Van Peel. It's a detail, you might say, but it's a sign. Poverty becomes a top priority for the EU as a priority. The concrete recommendations relating to experience experts, with which one could get started, have been lost and reduced to a formulation that can be used in all directions. The phrase 'the structural welfare of benefits and replacement income' was deleted. In the same paragraph, I once again find it somewhat cryptic that the minimum social security benefits will gradually be increased to the European poverty threshold, taking into account the social benefits associated with some benefits. I have already asked for an explanation of this in the discussion of the policy paper. What do you mean by that last part? What benefits will be taken into account? Are these benefits granted by other governments? In what way will that be taken into account? I did not receive an answer to that at the time and I did not receive an answer in committee last week. Next, the passage on the health-care pay supplements has been watered down. With regard to energy, the first version made eight concrete recommendations, including the inclusion of energy as a fundamental right in the Constitution. Now it says, ocharm, that the social energy funds will be evaluated and, if necessary, restructured or adapted. That is another way of saying things. I can go on like this for a while, fellow Members. The first firm and robust proposal of resolution has turned into a piece of paper that should enable the government in particular not to do too much about the fight against poverty. It has become a bummer that the temporary halt in the fight against poverty must be hidden in the happy expectation of Mrs van Peel's proposal. Last week we saw a good example of this. According to the Secretary of State, the DAVO will have enough money to pay all advances on alimony payments. Following the raising of the ceilings, the applications come in drop by drop. Of course they come in drop by drop if people do not know that they are entitled to it. Raising the ceiling looks great in the newspaper, but informing people about their rights, so that life becomes financially more bearable, you do not. That's the hypocrisy at the top. If you're really asked, you'll give it to me, but you won't advertise it. In this way, of course, the policy will be financed. Ladies and gentlemen, we have the impression that the fight against poverty must not cost the majority too much. We will not accept that. We will continue to place the majority of its responsibility for combating poverty. We will therefore not approve this paper which should propose a resolution on the fight against poverty. People in poverty deserve more than a piece of paper. People in poverty deserve respect and help. They don't get that from the majority.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-28-54-plenair-ip048x.u178	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in building my speech, I wondered what title I was going to give him. I hesitate between two titles: "How to go from'say' to 'do not do what you say'", or "How not to assume your responsibilities and choose hypocrisy through this text." Other colleagues have already said so. The first text was ambitious. I would admit that he put the CD&V in a schizophrenic situation, as the government's statement, issues and policies ran counter to all the major concerns about it, and all the measures that needed to be taken to combat poverty. The jump in the index, the measures of exclusion and degressivity of unemployment benefits: all this contributes to the deterioration of the population. I can understand that there was a malaise. It took several months for parliamentarians of the majority to agree on a common text. In the new version, I recognize it, there were essential elements in the fight against poverty, such as the cross-cutting nature of policies between levels of power, cross-cutting skills, the participation of poor people in the process, decent incomes, access to health care and quality housing. These essential elements are always present, but in each article, at each line, they are systematically mitigated. They are subject to the budget. There's the government agreement. What is the point of a resolution if it is not more ambitious than what the government does or is committed to doing? It is simply, and this is what the majority has done, to adopt and trust the government's statement. A resolution could then be abandoned if, as parliamentarians of the majority, it was not found that more needed to be done. You had the opportunity to say that the government had committed itself to certain things, as part of a policy that could or could not be approved, but that, in the fight against poverty, you asked it to look at other avenues. You didn't. We will vote on an unnecessary text. It is embarrassing to question the purpose of this way of doing things. Is the goal to show the government that it is being closely monitored and that we are really going to ensure that it implements the government agreement? Or, what I fear, is the intention to make citizens believe that Parliament is worried, wants to fight poverty, wants particularly ambitious measures, while concretizing through its government policies that exclude and increase the precariousness of the weakest citizens? As proof of the effect of these policies, the European Commission published a report at the end of April last analysing the so-called fiscal consolidation measures recently adopted by the Belgian government and their impact on poverty. Their conclusion is that the effects are disastrous. The report points in particular to the following reforms: the shift from social security to social assistance for many of the most vulnerable job-seekers; budgetary restrictions in the civil service and socio-cultural sectors; austerity measures disproportionately affecting the poorest and middle-class households as well as the non-working population; and the jump in the index applied to wages and not to rents. This is a European assessment of the impact of government policies. This resolution merely repeats government policies. Other colleagues have already spoken on some points, and my colleague Mrs Anne Dedry will complete my speech. I would like to draw attention to the hearings we have held. They were particularly interesting and fruitful. The stakeholders, from different backgrounds, were all competent in the fight against poverty. One of the elements on which they have all insisted is that, while it is indeed necessary to aim at the automaticity of rights, this is not enough. Indeed, automaticity can remain theoretical. People with rights do not believe enough in them when they are in poverty. Their negative image of themselves means that they will not manifest themselves, make the necessary minimum steps, or even be identified. Even the automaticity of rights does not guarantee that the person will actually have access to it. All called for the implementation of measures to verify the effectiveness of these rights. For this reason, we have tabled an amendment which I am resubmitting today with my colleagues Anne Dedry and Georges Gilkinet, so that we can at least examine this possibility of setting up in Belgium a tool which can be called the "observatoire du non-recours", as was done in France, and which allows us to have a barometer of non-recourse. It is a question of identifying, together with the poor, the actors in the fight against poverty and social services, whether this right for people, this measure that I consider automatic is in fact in practice. If it is not, what are the reasons? I regret that this proposal has not been accepted because it is not about giving more money or more rights. It is simply a question of verifying that the policies that are being put in place are successful and are being implemented on the ground. As far as health is concerned, it is something that strikes me deeply on a regular basis. Although this may not be considered sufficient, a range of measures exist to ensure that people have access to health care. Because of the lack of information, people now believe that they do not have access to health care because they should pay for it. They do not make use of it and are not given sufficient information. This is a particularly important example of the need to observe mechanisms and establish processes for these people. I have already explained to you one of the four amendments that we have tabled. If these amendments cannot be adopted here in plenary, we can only vote against this resolution. Indeed, we do not accept government policies. One of the elements that we cannot accept, of course, is that prior to the decline of applications, it is indicated "within budgetary limits". Policies are always made within budgetary limits, but they are set politically. These are choices. How do we organize the budget? How do we set priorities? Obviously, having organized the text in this way means that, among the requests made, many of them will be executed only half or will not be executed for budgetary reasons and not for bad will. However, in the explanatory memorandum and recitals, it is said that "the fight against poverty must be seen as an investment for the economy and society in general", which you do not advocate. This is also the fight against poverty. It makes it possible to reduce the financial pressure on social security on a lasting basis, without putting it on the diet. The text proposes to increase minimum social benefits at the poverty risk line. But, again, you take the measure that specifies "taking into account the benefits associated with certain allowances". This addition was not included in Ms. Lanjri's first version and this sentence simply means that this increase will have no effect on the lives of the poor. Once again, a way of saying but a way of doing things that is diametrically opposite. In the resolution, you also propose to examine whether the regulations on integration income are still sufficiently adapted to current forms of common life and/or care. We are delighted to read these terms, thinking that this is an open door to the individualization of rights. We asked the question in committee. We were answered in the negative. If we do not examine or deepen the individualization of rights, it is especially women, who are over-represented in this status of cohabitant, who will be the victims. Non-individualisation is associated with reductions in allowances for the cohabitant, but also with difficulties that will be linked to housing fraud. This will prevent housing sharing, solidarity. We need to invent other mechanisms, but we need to integrate the fact that the person is not penalized in his or her minimum income, such as allowances, because he or she chooses to share a space or his or her life with a person. The same applies to persons with disabilities. Since I am a parliamentarian, questions have been systematically asked and questions developed in the head of party parliamentarians of the current majority, but also others to say that this price of love must be put to an end. One must stop the fact that a person with a disability, because he or she lives with a person who has another income, has his or her integration allowance reduced. It could be expected that in this case it would be included in an ambitious way. Well, no! We're going to consider it, but we're not going to, when we have the numbers on it. We have the cost figures. They were established by several successive ministers. It's a matter of will, but it's not. These people will again be betrayed and deceived by phrases that make them believe that action will be taken, while that will not be the case. In the proposal, you have deleted several points relating to the special attention to be given to people furthest from the labour market. In doing so, you are entering into a logic in which the weakest people will have to comply with labour market requirements without benefiting from the necessary accompanying measures. I'm not going to go any further. I would like to address the Secretary of State again. In the resolution, I would have liked to replace "poverty line" with "poverty line". It is the official European name. It is the official designation that must also be that of the PPS Integration. We forget it regularly. Sometimes you use it, sometimes you don't. In the text, colleagues refused to change the formula. I think there is a difference in translation between French and Dutch. The important thing is that we must not aim at the poverty line, we must aim at the income that will allow us not to cross that line. The concept of poverty line risk is fundamental. Care should be taken to ensure that this term is used in the texts emanating from the Federal Public Service. The resolution before us does not protect this risk of poverty. We shall therefore vote against, unless you accept our amendments. But in the light of the exchanges, I don't think that will be the case. Our vote against will mean that we are not fooled by copying/pasteing the government statement. This resolution enshrines the abandonment of any parliamentary ambition.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-28-54-plenair-ip048x.u179	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, before I begin my speech, I wanted to register falsely with regard to what Mr Massin said with regard to hospitals. He conveyed the message that public hospitals were the ones that welcomed and cared for the most disadvantaged patients. I would like to remind him that the figures show that voluntary hospitals receive and treat patients from lower social classes as much as public hospitals. The numerical reality has its rights and I wanted to take advantage here of the opportunity rather than interrupt it earlier to say this. Ladies and gentlemen, we could discuss every point of this motion for a resolution. Then we'll have a whole day. I am not going to mention every point here. I shall confine myself to a brief political intervention. If your motion for a resolution, Mrs Lanjri, were put to the vote today, we would have supported it and voted positively. The objective of the CD&V – and it can only be that – was, it seems to me, clearly to put pressure on the government and, more particularly, on you, the Secretary of State, who are in charge of the fight against poverty to move things far further than the government agreement provides. When the majority agreed on a common text, it had to be noted that the text had been behind everything and that the text which was interesting, that of the CD&V, was no more than a noble ambition but unfortunately without a future. I understand you're embarrassed at the corners. It is complicated to vote for measures that aggravate poverty and, at the same time, to come with a resolution outside the government agreement. Colleagues, please excuse me, but if it is a matter of filing a simple copy and paste of "poverty" measures from your government agreement, then it was not worth drafting a motion for a resolution. I will take a step further by submitting a request. We can spend hours discussing here a copy-paste of the government agreement. On the other hand, when we hold hearings, listen to outside speakers for hours and, once they have expressed their opinion, we send them around by applying the exact opposite of their ideas and, worse still, by going back to the original motion for a resolution, I find it more than disrespectful of them. This is why, next time, avoid inviting outside speakers by taking time on their already busy agenda to, in the end, almost say "forte" in the face. I will not go any further, although I do not think there is any point in concluding, but I would like to invite the majority to look at OECD studies. As far as I know, this one doesn't roll for the left. Still, she continues to advocate for more inclusive social projects – and not for pleasure. Pay close attention, ladies and gentlemen, to the OECD reports, in which it is shown that the countries that are best off and have made the most progress in socio-economic terms are the ones that have developed the most inclusive policies. This is something for the majority to think about.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-28-54-plenair-ip048x.u180	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, it is true that, after the debate on this resolution, we are beginning to wonder what is still the meaning of adopting a resolution in a Parliament and what is still the point of such debates. I assume that the tabling of a resolution must allow the debate to expand beyond the commitments of a government declaration and to reflect on the long term, on a certain vision, a broader approach than the only imperatives of immediate management for the government, which should inspire the action of successive governments over the long term and where Parliament would give objectives to be achieved according to a timetable, a timetable, according to a methodology that would be determined. When I read the text of the resolution, with all the respect I owe to their authors and to the work that has been done - in this text everything is not to be neglected, certainly not - I cannot hide my perplexity about formulas that engage us on very moving sand. When we say "in tax matters, take new measures to develop fair, simple and transparent taxation", I would like to say, but what does that mean in practice? When it is said "in income policy (point 2), to gradually increase the minimum social security and social assistance benefits to the level of the European poverty line, taking into account the social benefits associated with certain social benefits". Yes, that is the real debate. But at what rate? What steps are quantified? We know the budget cost. If we put social minima in Belgium at the level of the European threshold tomorrow, it will cost the state 1.5 billion euros. That is the reality. If that is the objective, which is a necessity that we recommend the European institutions, then we must say at what speed we are going to achieve it rather than having a sentence that makes it clear but does not commit more than what everyone wants to put in it. And I could multiply the examples, which have something pathetic. When we say "automatically granting social rights" and we add "where possible", what does that mean? What does it mean to "get the necessary budgets in order to be able to carry out a vigorous policy and to fulfil the commitments made by the government"? What are the budgets? What amounts? What concrete measures? And so we could take up the whole resolution and see that it is totally vague, if not insignificant. However, there is room for budgets to be drawn up. And at some point, we have to go to the essentials. Of course, the fight against poverty is a cross-cutting issue; it affects health policy, housing policy and access to employment. But at the heart of the debate is the question of whether social minima should be revalued. That's the first big issue. If so, at what rate? With what objectives? The second big issue is the place of an institution like CPAS. Representatives of the CPAS federations were given a large place in the hearings. And surprisingly, when you read your resolution, you see that the role of CPAS is neglected. We don't say much about it. While this is the first institutional political instrument in Belgium in the fight against poverty. And representatives of the CPAS came with very specific requests, which concerned, for example, the rate of coverage of social integration income refunds by the State. Now we're starting to have real debates. They have come with very specific demands that their work should not be distorted and that, in particular, we should not embark on a joint merger with the ACPS, which would have the effect of putting an end to a number of guarantees linked to the protection due to the beneficiaries of social integration income, in order to preserve the specificity of the administrative action, which has proved its worth. Because CPAS have proven its worth in our country, they have demonstrated the effectiveness of a number of policies. They ask not to become an auxiliary to the ONEM. They ask not to become auxiliaries of social control. Their role isn't that one. All these requests, you're not responding. You're taking all of this away! The institution that is at the heart of the anti-poverty policy is ignored! The same representatives of CPAS representative associations present a real substantive debate: the individualisation of rights. This is a difficult debate. We know that this has budgetary consequences. But here, if we had a vision, a forward-looking field. The role of a parliament would be, together with the experts, with the professors of the academic world, to ask themselves the following question: how can we move towards what everyone considers to be a necessary objective? Because individualisation of rights is the best way to combat social fraud. With the latter, the methods of combating social fraud will not be discussed for long. Of course, this is not an easy debate. This is not a debate that we are undertaking in a few months. We could not even ask the current government to reach it. But it is Parliament's role that wants to be a chamber of reflection, of prospecting, if we want to make a resolution. All this, you evacuated him. I'm challenging you. In a few months, and even at the end of this Parliament, we will resume your resolution, which has about 60 requests to the government. For each one, we will ask you what has been, in concrete terms, the precise realization? I fear that this is not in favour of the sponsors of this resolution. That is regrettable, because I do not doubt the sincerity of their intention. But I think they got the wrong register, the wrong level of debate. Yesterday, France took this very republican and very French step to transfer the remains of four personalities of the resistance, including that of Geneviève Anthonioz-de Gaulle, who was the president of ATD Quart Monde. For those who were able to listen again to the message that this great lady delivered... By the way, she never agreed to return to Ravensbrück where she had been detained, because she always wanted her testimony to focus on the current challenges, to better preserve what she had experienced. She always said, "My real struggle is today the fight against poverty." It has made a remarkable commitment in France to the fight against poverty. She said terrible things. She said, in particular, that the people she met in reception camps had the eyes of her fellow detainees in Ravensbrück; that the people who knew the hardest of poverty had the eyes of anxiety and fear. That is an issue for all of us. But we cannot meet this challenge unless we defend ambitions other than those of the text that you submit to us. Of course, we can join you on some points. There is, of course, a need to correct the mechanisms for seizing securities and the way in which certain problems related to debt mediation can be resolved. By the way, you don't talk about SECAL (Accounts Service), while the law is not fully enforced. However, this was one of the first measures to combat certain forms of insecurity, affecting women who do not receive their maintenance properly. All this has never been fully implemented by successive governments. We could talk about many problems that have ultimately been accelerators to forms of insecurity in successive government policies. At some point, we need to raise the debate and focus on what is essential. First objective: the individualisation of rights. Secondly, the raising of the social minimums to meet European standards, as we are invited to do. Finally, the preservation of the political institution which, in this country, protects access to several social rights with respect for human dignity; I am of course referring to CPAS. As long as you do not agree to focus the debate on these three key issues, I simply believe that you will do only an apparent job.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-28-54-plenair-ip048x.u181	Ladies and gentlemen, this is not the first hypocritical resolution that comes from the majority. But today we are reaching a summit! I'm wondering when you'll file a resolution against index jumps. Why not? We don't know how far you'll go. In this case, we go very far. We're very strong! Contrary to what the text suggests, poverty does not stagnate. It's growing. The number of people below the risk-of-poverty line increases from year to year. The same applies to the number of persons receiving a CPAS allowance, as well as to the number of homeless people in Brussels and probably in other cities. This is a first observation. A second point, as other colleagues have pointed out, is the differences between the two resolutions, the initial CD&V resolution and the final resolution that is before us today. I don't know if you have to laugh at it because the subject doesn't lend itself to it. It's actually quite upbuilding. In its first version, the text referred to making the fight against poverty a top priority of the Government. The second version removes the "absolute" epithet and adds "taking into account the budgetary resources available". That's pretty significant. The same applies when the words "increase wages to avoid poor workers" are removed or when the phrase "guarantee access to energy" is deleted. I could have pinned on other examples but, given the time, I thank you for the exercise. It's quite upbuilding. I have heard a number of colleagues say that there is no miracle cure for poverty. I would tend to tell you that there may be no miracle remedy but that an effective remedy would be to avoid a policy that impoverishes people. To avoid poverty, let us avoid impoverishing them! Let's avoid pursuing a policy like you do, a policy that attacks people's wages through an index jump, a policy that reduces pensions by removing the pension bonus and provides for additional taxes with the non-indexing of the tax reduction on replacement income! Let's not increase access to justice fees by increasing registry fees! Let us avoid exclusions from unemployment, even if there, the wrongs are shared with the previous government! To avoid poverty, let us avoid pursuing a policy that makes the poor! That's essential! That is what makes me say that there is a fundamental hypocrisy in this resolution. Two visions face each other. At the PTB, we have a vision that poverty is not a matter of charity but of social justice. What can be done to combat poverty? It is strengthening the ramparts against this poverty. By "reparts," I'm thinking of social gains. The index, for example, is a social acquis. There! Preserving this rampart! Social security is also a bulwark. It is important to avoid tackling pensions, making people work longer, reducing the amount of pensions. Public services are also an incredibly important bulwark against poverty. What are you doing? With your budget alone, you eliminate thousands of jobs in the public service and reduce service to the public, which is an important bulwark for people, especially the most underprivileged. Public service is a way for them to escape poverty. In relation to this vision, which seems logical to me, but too logical for you, you have a vision pile and face. Pile, I'm planning a few measurements for, eventually, one day, doing a little something if the means allow. Facing this, you break these three ramparts of social achievements, social security and public services. I will finish by raising the big taboo that we dare not address. I will refer to Victor Hugo, who said, "The paradise of the rich is made from the hell of the poor." The Miserables are a classic. Indeed, the number of poor people is increasing and, at the same time, the number of rich people, the number of millionaires! You can consult the investigations. Every year, there are more millionaires than the previous year. Indeed, it is the great taboo to establish the link between the increase in the number of rich, of a minority of 1% of rich, increasingly rich, especially as Thomas Piketty's work has shown, and the impoverishment of the population. That is the difficult point to recognize! Madam Secretary of State, of course you are no longer in charge of the fight against tax fraud. But this matter – the effective fight against tax fraud – would have made it possible to strengthen the fight against poverty. The technique would have been sensible, but we can't do it anymore! To conclude, I'll give you a single number. A tax on millionaires such as the PTB defends it on only the 25 richest families in Belgium, the Spoelbergh, Albert Frère and Cie, would allow to give 173 euros more per month to a million pensioners. See the choice that is available to you, members of the majority and the government. Either we introduce a small tax on 25 very rich families, or we prevent a million pensioners from having 173 more euros per month. We are not going to multiply the amendments on such a hypocritical draft resolution. That would have been ineffective. But we have nevertheless introduced one to say that the increase in social benefits beyond the poverty risk line should not be fixed in the long term, one day if budgetary means permit, as the resolution provides. Our amendment calls for this adjustment to be applied this year. Mr Maingain gave the amount of EUR 1.5 billion. If you want to prove your real will to fight poverty, vote in favour of this amendment.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-28-54-plenair-ip048x.u182	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, my colleague Eric Massin has dealt extensively with the substance of the measures and I will not go back to that. I will speak on the method and attitude of the majority in this particularly important topic. In 2012, I had the honour of bringing to the European Parliament the report setting up the European platform to combat poverty and social exclusion. In this context, I have had the constant concern to bring together the different sensitivities of the political groups to send a strong message to the Council and the Commission: the message that austerity is not the way forward and that there must be a more important place for social progress. We must fight global and concrete poverty, which is a major threat to our social cohesion. Here, no strong message, no specific objective, no strict timetable for the government! I denounce the partisan attitude of this majority in a theme on which we must nevertheless make a common cause. By systematically refusing the constructive amendments of the opposition, you send a very negative signal to our growing citizens who live or are at risk of poverty. The fight against poverty must be viewed horizontally, in a cross-cutting way. It must involve not only all levels of power but also all the democratic sensitivities of this Parliament. Government measures are likely to further increase insecurity and inequality in the country. If I take the example of pensions, the situation will get worse for our seniors. I am thinking in particular of the postponement of the legal age to 67 years, in total contradiction with the will and ability to work up to 67 years of age of many people. I'm also thinking about access to the survivor's pension. The same is true for young people, with the tightening of access to integration allowances. However, as recently as yesterday, the Social Integration FPS still highlighted that one in five pensioners in our country lived below the poverty line. The partisan attitude of the majority is truly damaging in the face of the social emergency experienced by many citizens. It is incomprehensible and counterproductive. To illustrate this, I will take only one example, that of the amendment we proposed in the Committee on Food Waste. You know that more than 200,000 people are using food aid in Belgium. The decline in the availability of food, combined with the increase in insecurity, makes the situation critical for many families and associations. We proposed adding one point, a small point on this subject, calling for measures to combat food waste in all stages of the production chain, while promoting redistribution to aid associations for the poorest. While this proposal of common sense, initiated at Herstal, has just been the subject of a unanimous vote in the French National Assembly – I insist: unanimously – while legislative or governmental initiatives have been taken in the three Regions of this country, the majority has swept this chapter away with a turn of the hand, which I deeply regret. But the fight does not end here. We will not give up, we will come back, in particular with my colleague Eric Massin, whenever necessary, with substantive proposals in order to achieve a single objective: to act to eradicate poverty in practice and effectively.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-28-54-plenair-ip048x.u183	Mr President, I am also speaking on behalf of my recent colleague Evita Willaert and I share her concerns about this matter. She's enjoying her baby. Thank God mother and child shouldn't live in poverty. The original resolution was very ambitious and included many essential elements that are important in the fight against poverty: a transversal policy, structural global measures, decent incomes. We thought that was a very good first version. The restriction on the beginning of the resolution, which takes account of budgetary resources, is really worrying and gives the feeling that the resolution is being hollowed out. We expect a government to choose what and how much resources it is committed to the fight against poverty and to tell us what choices it is making. The main regret is that the tone of the resolution has changed. That's why she's lost her most important ambitions. It has already been said by many speakers and I shall therefore confine myself to this example. It is argued that the aim is to increase social security benefits to the European poverty threshold, but taking into account social benefits linked to certain benefits. That addition was not in the first version, but it is in the coalition agreement. If she stays that way, that increase hardly risks making a difference in the daily lives of people in poverty. So much has been said by the other speakers that I can conclude here. This resolution very often and especially stresses the need to return to work, but without really worrying about the quality of the proposed jobs, nor about the guidance of the most vulnerable people. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats would have liked to support this resolution, but we cannot give our support to an empty box.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-28-54-plenair-ip048x.u184	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The meeting's over. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-28-54-plenair-ip048x.u185	Request/Point 2. (a) • 52 - Marco Van Hees cs (1052/5) Request/Point 2.h) (n) • 53 • Muriel Gerkens cs (1052/5) Request/Point 4.e) • 43 • Muriel Gerkens cs (1052/2) Request/Point 4.h), (i), (j) • 45 years old Muriel Gerkens cs (1052/2) Punt/Point 7 • 47 • Muriel Gerkens (1052/2) Punt/Item 10.j) (n) • 54 years old Muriel Gerkens cs (1052/5) ******
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-28-54-plenair-ip048x.u186	The vote on the amendments that have been tabled and on the whole of the proposal will take place later. The vote on the reserved amendments and on the whole proposal will take place at a later stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-28-54-plenair-ip048x.u187	The next item is the debate on the request for prosecution by Mr Sébastian Pirlot, No. 1107/1. The next item is the debate on the application for leave to prosecute by Mr Sebastian Pirlot, No 1107/1. I call Mr Hendrik Vuye, rapporteur. The rapporteur, Mr Hendrik Vuye, has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-28-54-plenair-ip048x.u188	Mr President, I refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-28-54-plenair-ip048x.u189	I would remind you that only the rapporteur, the Member concerned or a Member representing him, and one speaker in favour and one speaker against, may speak. Paragraph 3 of the Rules of Procedure). May I remind you that only the rapporteur, the member concerned or a representative, a speaker in favour and a speaker against may speak (art. 160, § 3 of the Regulation). Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The committee's decision is as follows: The Commission's conclusion is as follows: "Having regard to the request made by the Attorney General at the Liège Appeals Court; "Having regard to the request made by the Attorney General to the Court of Appeal of Liège; Having regard to Article 59 (1) of the Constitution and having regard to the constitutional leave granted by the Walloon Parliament and the Parliament of the French Community to subpoena Mr Sébastian Pirlot before the Luxembourg Police Court, Arlen, Having regard to Article 59, paragraph 1, of the Constitution and having regard to the constitutional authorization given by the Walloon Parliament and the Parliament of the French Community to refer Mr Sebastian Pirlot to the Court of Police of Luxembourg, Arlon Division, Having regard to Article 59, sixth paragraph, of the Constitution; Having regard to article 59, paragraph 6, of the Constitution; Having regard to the general principles referred to above; Having regard to the general principles referred to above; The Committee unanimously proposes not to suspend the prosecution of Mr Sébastian Pirlot, Member of the Chamber of Representatives, before the Luxembourg Police Court, Arlen section." The committee unanimously proposes not to suspend the prosecution of Mr Sebastian Pirlot, a member of the House of Representatives, before the Court of Police of Luxembourg, Arlon Division." Can everyone agree to the committee's decision? Can everyone agree with the conclusion of the committee? No comment? No observation? [[No]] The decision shall be adopted. The conclusion was adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-28-54-plenair-ip048x.u190	The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. If there is no objection, I shall consider it adopted; in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be sent to the committees responsible. If there are no comments on this subject, I will take it into account as a matter of fact and refer the proposals back to the relevant committees in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. In line with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 27 May 2015, I also propose that you consider: - the motion for a resolution (Mr Vincent Van Quickenborne, Mrs Zuhal Demir and Mr Nahima Lanjri and Mr David Clarinval) introducing targeted checks on discrimination in the labour market, No. 1108/1; - the motion for a resolution (Mr David Clarinval and Mr Wouter Raskin, Mrs Nahima Lanjri, Mr Egbert Lachaert, Mrs Catherine Fonck and Mr Stefaan Vercamer) on posted workers, No. 1111/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-28-54-plenair-ip048x.u191	- the legislative proposal (Mr Benoît Friart, Ms Kattrin Jadin, Mr Emmanuel Burton, Mr Frank Wilrycx, Tim Vandenput and Mr Bert Wollants and Mrs Leen Dierick and Mrs Griet Smaers) ratifying certain articles of the Royal Decree of 4 April 2014 amending the Royal Decree of 6 July 2002 on the establishment of mechanisms for the promotion of electricity generated from renewable energy sources and the Royal Decree of 19 September 2014 determining the ombuds contribution to the financing of the ombuds service for energy, for the financial year 2015, No. 1114/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-28-54-plenair-ip048x.u192	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 27 May 2015, I also propose that you take into account: - the motion for a resolution (Mr Vincent Van Quickenborne, Mrs Zuhal Demir and Mrs Nahima Lanjri and Mr David Clarinval) on the introduction of targeted controls on discrimination in the labour market, No 1108/1; - the motion for a resolution (MM. David Clarinval and Wouter Raskin, Mrs Nahima Lanjri, Mr Egbert Lachaert, Mrs Catherine Fonck and Mr Stefaan Vercamer) concerning posted workers, No 1111/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-28-54-plenair-ip048x.u193	- the draft law (Mr Benoît Friart, Ms Kattrin Jadin, MM. Emmanuel Burton, Frank Wilrycx, Tim Vandenput and Bert Wollants and Ms Leen Dierick and Ms Griet Smaers) confirming certain articles of the Royal Decree of 4 April 2014 amending the Royal Decree of 16 July 2002 on the establishment of mechanisms for the promotion of electricity produced from renewable energy sources and the Royal Decree of 19 September 2014 laying down, for the 2015 budget year, the special procedures for the calculation of the mediation fee for the financing of the energy mediation service, No 1114/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-28-54-plenair-ip048x.u194	Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-28-54-plenair-ip048x.u195	Mr President, I would like to ask for the floor on an urgent matter. The proposers of the Bill No. 1108 ask for urgency.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-28-54-plenair-ip048x.u196	We shall give our opinion on this in the usual way.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-28-54-plenair-ip048x.u197	Mr President, we have not heard what the urgent request is about.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-28-54-plenair-ip048x.u198	It concerns the motion for a resolution by Mr. Van Quickenborne, Mrs Demir, Mrs Lanjri and Mr Clarinval on the introduction of targeted controls on discrimination in the labour market, No 1108/1. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that we take a stand on the urgency requested by Mr Van Quickenborne in the usual way.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-28-54-plenair-ip048x.u199	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 86 Yes No. [[47]] No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 134 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1020/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1020/4)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-28-54-plenair-ip048x.u200	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-28-54-plenair-ip048x.u201	Mr. Chairman, the PS Group will abstain from this bill. Articles 3 and 9 provide that the prisoner's consent may be dispensed with if he is subject to a measure of expulsion or deportation to the border or a decision under which he will no longer be allowed to stay in the territory. However, this provision does not take into account the possible presence of family members in Belgium or a previous stay. We can't mix the genres. If, for the PS group, one can easily support the laudable objective of the convention in order to promote the reintegration of detainees into their country of origin, one can accept only by this means, one allows the expulsion of foreigners in very large cases.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-28-54-plenair-ip048x.u202	Mr President, we cannot agree because, if the consent of the person concerned is lacking, there is no possibility of appeal. This does not seem to us to respect basic rights. That is why we will vote against it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-28-54-plenair-ip048x.u203	Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 2) Yes 108 Yes No. 2............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 23 Abstensions Total 133 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1021/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1021/4)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-28-54-plenair-ip048x.u204	Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-28-54-plenair-ip048x.u205	Vote on Amendment No 11 from Catherine Fonck to insert a request 14 (n). (53/4) Vote on Amendment No 11 by Catherine Fonck to insert a point 14 (n). (53/4) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 3) Yes [[55]] Yes No. 77 No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 134 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-28-54-plenair-ip048x.u206	Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-28-54-plenair-ip048x.u207	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 134 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 134 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the motion for a resolution. It will be notified to the government. (53/9) Accordingly, the House adopted the motion for a resolution. This will be made known to the government. (53/9)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-28-54-plenair-ip048x.u208	Vote on Amendment No 52 by Marco Van Hees cs on request 2, (a). (1052/5) Vote on Amendment No 52 by Marco Van Hees cs in point 2(a). (1052/5) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 5) Yes [[47]] Yes No. 76 No Abstentions 10 Abstensions Total 133 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 53 by Muriel Gerkens cs inserting a request 2.h)(n). (1052/5) Vote on Amendment No 53 by Muriel Gerkens cs to insert a point 2(h)(n). (1052/5) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 6) Yes 54 Yes No. 78 No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 134 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 43 by Muriel Gerkens cs on request 4.e). (1052/2) Vote on Amendment No 43 by Muriel Gerkens cs in point 4(e). (1052/2) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 7) Yes 34 Yes No. 88 No Abstentions 11 Abstensions Total 133 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 45 by Muriel Gerkens cs inserting requests 4.h), (i), (j). (1052/2) Vote on Amendment No 45 by Muriel Gerkens cs to insert points 4(h), (i), (j). (1052/2) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 8) Yes 52 Yes No. 77 No Abstentions 4 Abstensions Total 133 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 47 from Muriel Gerkens cs at point 7. (1052/2) Vote on Amendment No 47 by Muriel Gerkens cs in point 7. (1052/2) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 9) Yes [[45]] Yes No. 78 No Abstentions 11 Abstensions Total 134 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 54 by Muriel Gerkens cs to insert a point 10.j) (n). (1052/5) Vote on amendment No 54 by Muriel Gerkens cs to insert a point 10.j) (n). (1052/5) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-28-54-plenair-ip048x.u209	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-28-54-plenair-ip048x.u210	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 10) Yes 78 Yes No. [[46]] No Abstentions 10 Abstensions Total 134 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the motion for a resolution. It will be notified to the government. (1052/6) Accordingly, the House adopted the motion for a resolution. This will be made known to the government. (1052/6) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-28-54-plenair-ip048x.u211	We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for the week of 1 June 2015. We need to approve the agenda for the sessions of the week of 1 June 2015. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Wednesday, 3 June 2015, at 2.15 p.m. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Wednesday 3 June 2015 at 2.15 p.m.
