ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic049x.u1	Colleagues, before we begin our work, allow me to present my best wishes for the year 2015 to the members of the committee, to the Minister and to all staff, including those who are in the cabin and who are responsible for the translation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic049x.u2	Mr President, Minister, I have asked you a question about the additional recognition of lifeless babies. It is a problem that has been going on for several years and has already been circulating in the past, in the previous government as well as in the Senate, legislative proposals and draft laws. A problem that should gradually come to a landing, I think. I should not, of course, like to outline the problem. According to the figures available, there are about 600 families each year who are faced with the loss of an unborn child. A child they have of course already felt, which in their experience is already part of their family. After the malhears that have happened to them, it is important for them to leave a trace of the child. That's how they formulate it themselves. I have seen that the coalition agreement also refers in a number of passages to a regulation in this respect. I suspect that both yourself and Minister Maggie De Block are confronted with and engaged in this matter. During the previous period of government, the regime was lost because there was no complete consensus on the modalities and the way in which it should be done. That's why I'm asking what's going on with that file? Is there any beginnings of compromise within the government? Is the government keen to come up with something in the short term or are there some proposals that lie down in this Chamber? Is it something we can look into in this room and discuss among roommates?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic049x.u3	Mr President, first of all, I would like to thank you for your message for the new year. We, in turn, wish you every success in your mission, particularly as chairman of the committee. Mr Minister, as Mr Vanvelthoven has just explained, the government agreement provides that new legislation will be drawn up on the question of the name and registration of stillborn children and thus amend the Act of 27 April 1999, which already provides for the possibility of giving a name to a child born without life, provided that the pregnancy has lasted at least 180 days or 26 weeks. Your policy statement states that, as far as registration is concerned, this new legislation will take account of developments in neonatology where the viability limit takes into account a shorter period than that laid down in the legislation currently in force. With this new legislation, it will also become possible to give this child a surname in addition to a first name, without it having any other legal effect. It is true that the parents of stillborn children often ask for recognition by the legislator, first name and surname of their deceased child. Bills have already been tabled in previous legislatures. They were designed to enable parents to register children born after miscarriage, often starting in the twelfth week of pregnancy, in a special register. Some of these proposals have been resubmitted. They sometimes propose a period of 15 weeks, or a period of 140 days. Timelines are variable. I wonder about the compatibility of such initiatives and the government's announced initiative with our current legislation on voluntary termination of pregnancy. The legal period for abortion in Belgium is 12 weeks (84 days) and, after this period, in principle, abortion is allowed only when the continuation of the pregnancy seriously endangers the health of the woman or when it is certain that the unborn child will be affected by a condition of particular gravity, which is recognized as incurable at the time of diagnosis. Thus, if we legislate as the government suggests, a woman could, within the same time frame, abort and register her child born without life. This could be tantamount to challenging the abortion law, which is not envisaged. I am concerned about the compatibility of the current legislation on voluntary termination of pregnancy and the intentions of your government statement. Mr Minister, I would therefore like to know how you have reflected on this point of your agreement by asking you the following questions. To what extent will developments in neonatology weigh in setting the time limit from which parents can give a name to their child born without life? Will the time limit be the same for registration? Do you intend to follow the deadlines set out in certain bills that I have briefly mentioned? Will the registration of stillborn children take place in civil registers or in other forms? And with what legal consequences? Should the concept of a child be retained in relation to the concept of a fetus, given the legislation in force for voluntary termination of pregnancy? I recognize that these are tricky notions to handle. There is a tendency to recognize, if not a legal personality, at least one personality to a child born without life or stillborn. This may conflict with what has been considered, particularly in the context of the law on the decriminalization of abortion, as not having the same legal scope. And I would like to make sure that you give your legislation guidance on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic049x.u4	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I wish you a healthy and happy 2015. Mr Minister, I would like to refer to what some Members have already said about the fact that this House has been debating the recognition of lifeless babies for a number of legislative hours. That is what the various legislative proposals before us prove. Ours dates back to 2009. On Monday 5 January 2015, we were able to read in the press that you would ask your administration to draw up a concrete proposal on the possibility of giving a stillborn child a family name next to a first name. In addition, you would adjust the period of viability from 180 days to 140 days after conception. The non-profit association With Empty Hands, an association for and by parents of deceased babies, wants to go further. She argues for the possibility of registering lifeless baby babies in the birth register and giving them a birth certificate, as happens with each child. Here are my specific questions in this connection. By what time do you plan to come to the committee with a draft law? Will this be discussed in the Chamber's committee? How do you see the M.O.? What are your views on the proposal of the Open Vld, which already allows parents of a stillborn child to declare this birth after 12 to 26 weeks of pregnancy and also to indicate a family name in the document of declaration? What is your response to the position and question of non-profit association With Empty Hands?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic049x.u5	Mr President, I share the concerns of Members, in particular that parents of a lifeless child want to give that child a place in their lives. It is important that they can also register the child and give a name. As I indicated in my policy statement in November 2014, I will develop new legislation on the registration and naming of lifeless children. It is difficult to put a timing on that legislation. Nevertheless, I will certainly try to submit a bill before the summer of 2015. It goes without saying that, in preparing this draft, I will take a great deal of account of the legislative proposals that have been put forward or re-launched by the present legislature, such as Mrs Fonck, Mr Delpérée and Mr Matz and Mrs Becq, Mr Terwingen, Mrs Dierick and Mr Verherstraeten. I will also consult all the actors involved, such as associations dealing with the problem and associations of civil servants. Mrs Lahaye-Battheu, of course I will also take into account the legislative proposal you submitted in 2009. I will not be selective in the synthesis we will try to make. In the field of registration, as Mr Maingain pointed out, the new legislation will have to take account of developments in neo-natology, where the limit of viability is lower than the one currently used in the Civil Code. Currently, only stillborn children are registered after a pregnancy of at least 180 days. This limit is determined by a circular dated 13 December 1848, as recalled in a circular dated 10 June 1999. In the meantime, society and the medical sciences have evolved considerably. An adaptation of this obsolete legislation will also allow for the registration of stillborn children after a shorter pregnancy in the future. The future limitation and the replacement of the term "child" with another term will be the subject of a discussion based on medical scientific considerations and the needs of parents. There will be no amendments to the abortion legislation in this context. I am open to the question of the vzw With Empty Hands to register lifeless children in the birth register and give a birth certificate. I will have my administration examine whether and how this registration can be carried out without any other legal effect being attached to it. It will also be possible to give a family name to a lifeless child in addition to a first name without giving rise to any other legal effect. Today, at the request of the parents, the child can only be given a first name. It is important to point out that under Belgian law, a stillborn child is not a legal person. In order to obtain legal personality, a child must be born alive and viable, as set out in the last paragraph of articles 331bis, 725 and 906 of the Civil Code. I do not intend to touch on this point in this bill. This also does not correspond to the needs of this legislative intervention. In connection with burial or cremation, I refer to the regional decrees on this matter, which already provide for different possibilities for lifeless children. For example, Article 15 (2) of the Flemish Decree of 16 January 2004 at the cemeteries and funeral services provides that lifeless children who have not yet reached the legal viability limit may be buried or cremated at the request of the parents after a full period of 12 weeks of pregnancy. The Decree of 28 March 2014 even abolishes this age limit.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic049x.u6	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I note that you want to do a diligent job of it. I also note that you are open to the suggestion of the non-profit association Met Elege Handen, which interprets what many parents live with, in particular that their entry in the birth register is important to them. It is difficult for them to accept that the child, with the first name alone, is recorded in the death register, without ever being officially born. I note that you are open to that. I am sure you will also be aware that there is no question of the parents asking for any additional rights that the registration would entail. I believe that we can also take that with us. In my view, this is a discussion on a problem which has little to do with the party political aspect that often plays in this Chamber. Perhaps it is appropriate, and I should like to address my fellow Members to conduct the discussion in this committee, at least if there is room for that, and those who say that the Minister should hear, in view of his draft law. In this way, the acceptance of what will ultimately be decided here can be maximised.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic049x.u7	Minister, thank you for the first piece of information you provide. It is an important legal debate that awaits us, and I have no doubt that you will take the precaution to surround yourself with the most authoritative opinions, particularly from practitioners. I draw your attention, for example, to the fact that there was a judgment of the Court of Cassation in France in 2008. In France, the law did not set the time limit within which the stillborn child could be taken into account in order to grant him the registration of the only first name – not the last name – in a specific register. The Court of Cassation held that, since the time limit was fixed by a circular, the latter could not take precedence over the law and that, therefore, the will of the legislator outweighed that of the administrative authority. Therefore, there is no time-limit requirement. This decision of the Court of Cassation gave rise to an abundant doctrine. There is a question about the status of the fetus, for example. Until now, up to a certain period of time, the fetuses are considered waste. I admit it's a very hard expression to hear. This means that there is no legal effect in any way related to the delivery of a stillborn child. For researchers, it is very important to know where the legal limit is, in particular to allow scientific research on stillborn children's embryos or not. There was therefore a very in-depth debate on these issues in France, because a number of researchers, renowned doctors and university professors warned about the effects of the judgment of the Court of Cassation. In France, there was a discussion as to whether the stillborn child still opens up certain rights, not descent of course, but social benefits for parents such as paternity leave, maternity leave. All these debates inevitably stem from knowing where the legal limit is put. The researchers indicated that they wished to keep the possibility of conducting research on stillborn children's embryo or fetuses without having disputes on the part of parents or the family. I therefore believe that you are going to open a very broad debate. A balance will have to be struck between the affective and the right. How much can the right give to the affective of the parents? The latter is part of their mourning and is eminently understandable. However, under this question, other debates and claims may arise, which would ultimately aim to recognize a child who is stillborn or at least to give him protection such that other interests or rights would no longer be permitted. I raise this question because I believe that this great debate is waiting for us. He believes that you will conduct it in close consultation with all relevant circles and with Parliament, with very broad hearings and consultations.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic049x.u8	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. As Mr Maingain has just said, it will be important to strike a good balance and a good solution with regard to the effective and emotional aspect, on the one hand, and a legally correct one, on the other. I think we all agree that it is mainly a matter of giving parents official recognition of their grief, which is not enough at the moment. If we can solve all this together, we will be able to alleviate some of the sadness on such a sad occasion.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic049x.u9	Questions No 747 by Mr Raf Terwingen and No 937 by myself are transformed into written questions. Question No 922 by Mrs Zakia Khattabi is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic049x.u10	Mr President, Minister, in the Justice Committee on 9 December, you indicated that you were going to meet with the President of the Commercial Court on 11 December – I do not know if this date has been confirmed. You didn't specify which president you were going to meet, whether it was the French-speaking or Dutch-speaking commercial court, but I suspect you had the heart to meet both. Your government agreement provides for two measures directly relating to commercial courts: on the one hand, the assessment of the workload and, on the other hand, the launch of a pilot project of single courts involving the commercial court, the labour court and the court of first instance, with the maintenance of specialized chambers and courtrooms. Minister, could you tell us more about the results of this meeting? I am not asking you to disclose any confidential information that your interlocutors would have given you, but I would like to know if you have considered with them how to implement your government intentions. Did you mention the evaluation of the only single existing court, that of Eupen, before the generalization of this model? Such an assessment is indeed required by the Union professionnelle de la Magistrature. What are the savings but also the additional workload in terms of personnel management? For example, what would the creation of these single courts represent? Have these questions received an interested, reserved, cautious or very favourable reception from your interlocutors?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic049x.u11	Mr. Maingain, we met with the presidents of the Brussels, French-speaking and Dutch-speaking commercial courts, as well as the presidents of the French- and Dutch-speaking courts of first instance. The first president of the Court of Appeal and the presidents described the situation. Many administrative staff start their careers in Brussels, as many places are vacant, allowing them to get their statutory appointment fairly quickly. They are often people who live far from the capital, for example in Namur or Arlon, and who request a rapid transfer to a court or prosecutor's office close to their home. This also explains in part the limited number of promotions to higher positions, such as clerks or prosecutors. The prospect of language examination also leads many administrative staff to opt for the transfer. I refer in particular to Article 53, § 6 of the Law of 15 July 1935 on the use of languages in judicial matters. As soon as they have obtained their provisional appointment, candidates for a bilingual position must provide proof of their functional knowledge of the second language within the year. If a person fails to pass the Dutch exam in the year, he or she should be given priority in the unilingual framework. Since not all jobs are occupied there, the fear of being laid off will, in most cases, be unfounded. Various solutions are under consideration: the organization of one-stop shops; the adaptation of the opening hours of commercial court registries; the use of judicial trainees; the modification of the provisions of the summary procedure which would allow a single judge to sit; the presentation of notarial acts exclusively in electronic form; additional delegations; the recruitment of additional staff; the amendment of the Royal Decree on mobility; and a promotion examination level B. Regardless of this problem, consultations are planned with the President of the Court of First Instance, the Commercial Court and the Eupen Labour Court with a view to a pilot project for a single court. It is only at the end of the study that it will be possible to determine what savings would be made, but also how the workload would evolve in the creation of single tribunals. A first meeting should focus on the development of a methodology.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic049x.u12	Mr President, I thank the Minister for this very detailed answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic049x.u13	Minister, since 2009, some 650 prisoners sentenced by the Belgian State have been incarcerated in Tilburg prison in the Netherlands. It was first announced that no French-speaking inmate would be transferred because of the language difficulties this could create. But the harsh reality of prison overcrowding has caught up with the prison administration and it appears that French-speaking prisoners are indeed incarcerated in Tilburg. This situation raises questions as detainees who do not speak or understand Dutch are unable to communicate with the guards, all Dutch, and with the prison administration. Mr Minister, of the 650 prisoners currently incarcerated in Tilburg, how many are Francophones, whether they come from Wallonia, Brussels or Flanders? How many of them do they not understand Dutch? Have any complaints been filed concerning language problems in Tilburg? Are there bilingual persons among the staff assigned to the Tilburg prison, so that they can also speak in French? Are any arrangements made to facilitate the communication of French-speaking prisoners with the prison administration?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic049x.u14	First of all, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that the figures at our disposal relate only to the administrative reality of language. Tilburg distinguished between Dutch-speaking files, currently 400, and French-speaking files, 150, which correspond to the legal definition of language use. It is impossible to distinguish between the languages actually spoken by the detainees. It should also be borne in mind that a large part of the population detained in Tilburg consists of foreigners without a residence permit and that knowledge of one of the two national languages is therefore very uncertain. It's a reality. As everywhere, the staff do their utmost to cope with the daily situation. Nevertheless, I can confirm that a few Dutch staff in Tilburg speak French, that at least one Belgian director also speaks French, and that a French-speaking person is seconded to the Tilburg Psychosocial Service. There are no significant problems to report in this regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic049x.u15	Minister, thank you for this reassuring response for Francophone inmates.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic049x.u16	Minister, the Law of Principles of 12 January 2005 provides for the establishment, alongside the Central Prison Supervision Board, of competent supervisory commissions for one or more prisons. They shall ensure the treatment of prisoners and the observance of the rules concerning them. They can access the prisons for which they are competent in order to exercise independent control. In practice, these supervisory commissions face a number of difficulties. Recruitment of members is not easy, particularly because of the lack of resources, support and vocational training. Maintaining a full commission is made difficult by limiting the mission to two four-year terms and by the age limits imposed. Minister, there are a few questions about this situation. Is a supervisory commission operational within each prison in the country? Is the composition of all supervisory commissions in accordance with the law? Do the members of the supervisory commissions receive compensation and/or insurance to carry out their duties? Have you been informed of any particular difficulties encountered by the supervisory commissions? Is it possible to abolish or limit this tax on the basis of age, duration and number of terms of office? Could training for members of supervisory boards be beneficial in the performance of their duties? Are measures currently being taken to ensure that supervisory commissions are properly informed?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic049x.u17	Mr Goffin, the provisions of the Law of Principles of 12 January 2005 on the supervision of prisons by the supervisory commissions have not yet entered into force. Pending this entry into force, similar articles (129 to 138decies) of the Royal Decree of 21 May 1965 on the general regulation of prisons are currently applicable. According to information obtained from the Central Supervisory Board, a supervisory committee is active in each prison. Sometimes a commission may be competent for two establishments, as the regulations allow. For example, in the social defence institution Les Marronniers de Tournai and in the legal psychiatry centre in Ghent, there is no supervisory commission. In these institutions, which are not prisons, other authorities also exercise powers, such as the FPS Public Health and the Communities and Regions. The composition of the supervisory commissions is in accordance with the law. In the second part of 2014, the Central Prison Supervisory Board did indeed have to ask several members of the local commissions, whose second term had come to an end, to resign due to the statutory expiry of their mandates. This represents, in the eyes of the Council and the committees, a loss of motivated and experienced collaborators. In consultation with the Council, I will therefore examine the legal possibility of extending the term of office and/or possibly renewing the term of office of the members once or twice. The same applies to the introduction or withdrawal of age conditions. Members receive an allowance for travel, transportation and insurance coverage. The provision of training and information are necessary to ensure that the Central Prison Supervision Board and the local commissions are able to carry out their tasks rigorously. The Central Council provides information at the request of the commissions and a Community study day is organised each year. There is not yet a budget for these training courses. The Central Council may also request information and advice from my political unit or the administration. If, under formal legal law, complaints were to be brought in the future, it would certainly be necessary to organise training in the light of judicial tasks, complaints commissions or the appeal commission.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic049x.u18	I note that you are not closed to reconsidering this possible extension or renewal of mandate.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic049x.u19	Minister, this question concerns the great linguistic diversity in prison and echoes the question that has been asked about the situation of Francophones in Tilburg Prison. The great linguistic diversity within the prison population can cause problems or difficulties. Despite the mechanisms put in place to facilitate communication, important challenges still need to be addressed. Thus, the reception of inmates must take into account this linguistic diversity. It is often up to the actors in the field to find a solution to cross the language barrier(s). In Termonde prison, for example, the canteen list was provided with pictograms to facilitate understanding. These small arrangements seem to make the integration of allochtonians into prison easier and thus make their detention a more peaceful time. Minister, is there any specific regulation on the use of languages in prison? How many complaints about language problems were filed by inmates in 2013? Do you have any knowledge of systems put in place within the various Belgian prisons to overcome these linguistic difficulties? Are initiatives such as the one developed at the Termonde prison applicable in other institutions? If so, are they already implemented?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic049x.u20	Mr President, the use of languages is regulated by the use of languages in administrative matters. All administrative files are therefore written either in French or in Dutch, depending on where the prison is located. On the ground, with 35% of foreign prisoners from almost two hundred different countries, it goes without saying that it is impossible to run a prison with only French and Dutch. This is not a unique situation. Many countries face the same problems. Everything is therefore essentially a matter of goodwill. If communication cannot be done in one of the national languages, English or German, or even other languages, will be tried if they are known to certain staff members. Occasionally, another inmate will act as an intermediary. Anyway, everyone does what they can at their own level. In fact, this does not cause a significant incident, despite the real difficulties, I repeat. The initiative of the Termonde prison is obviously not unique or isolated. Many institutions have been working for years on diversity-related projects in prisons, including linguistic projects. For example, the Law of Principles of 12 January 2005 was translated into six languages and made available to detainees. The same applies to the internal regulations of prisons. Many prisons offer basic training in French or Dutch for prisoners. In some cases, such training is even provided by officials who have undergone training in a foreign language. The pictogram system also exists in other prisons such as Antwerp. There is nothing to prevent establishments from using them.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic049x.u21	Article 16 of the Law of Principles of 12 January 2005 provides that, in each prison, the head of the institution shall establish an internal regulation. Internal regulations are submitted to the Minister for approval and a copy of the regulations is made available to inmates. This provision of the Law of Principles came into force through the Royal Decree of 8 April 2011. According to reports prepared by the supervisory commissions, it would appear that in 2012 domestic regulations were not available or unavailable in some institutions: Saint-Hubert, Lantin for the prison house and the women's district in Jamioulx. This situation is obviously problematic and likely to favour arbitrariness. Because of the absence of internal rules, discussions about the rights and obligations of detainees may often arise where insufficient consideration is given to the weak position of detainees. Has any internal rules of procedure so far been drawn up in all prisons since the 2012 report? Have all internal regulations been approved by the Minister? Are the internal regulations fully enforced in prisons? Is the rules of procedure available and accessible to all prisoners in each prison? Can measures be taken to facilitate access to and compliance with the rules of procedure?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic049x.u22	Article 16 of the Law of Principles entered into force on 1 September 2011 following the adoption of the Royal Decree of 8 April 2011. In accordance with collective letter 107 of 16 June 2011, in each prison, it is for the head of the institution to determine whether it is necessary, because of the specificities of his establishment, to establish a single internal regulation common to all sections of the prison or whether it is more important to establish a separate internal regulation for each section. As of 1 September 2011, one or more internal regulations are therefore available in each establishment and are fully applicable. These regulations are made available to prisoners in different ways: either a copy of the regulations is given to each inmate entering, a copy is placed in each cell or a few copies are made available to the inmate in each section. The aim is for each inmate to have prompt and easy access to the internal rules to which they are subject. In addition, some copies of the internal regulation(s) are available in the prison library. Article 3 of the Royal Decree of 8 April 2011 also provides that during the first interview with the director, which takes place within 24 hours of the arrival of an inmate in an institution, the director shall inform the inmate of his legal and prison situation and bring to his knowledge the main points of the internal regulations. In addition to this oral information, the detainee signs a document stating that he or she has read the information and that he or she may request a copy free of charge. All regulations have been approved by the Minister of Justice. They have the status of ministerial circular. All measures are thus taken to ensure the best knowledge of the internal rules by each inmate.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic049x.u23	Mr President, Minister, I wish you and the staff all the best. On December 19, 2014, the Maison Plurielle reopened its doors in Charleroi. I don't know if you know the institution. It is an association that supports women victims of violence. Its reopening in Charleroi is an opportunity to take stock of this scourge too present in our society. Within the European Union, one in three women is the victim of domestic violence. As for Belgium, the average number of married homicides is, unfortunately, 40 cases per year. You will agree that these figures remain worrying. They also underpin the actions carried out by the Maison Plurielle in Charleroi. This type of ASBL covers all the issues related to violence against women, from economic control, which is obviously a form of violence, to genital mutilation, of course, intramarital aggression and forced marriage. According to the coordinator of the Maison Plurielle, for this year 2014, the association received on average a request for intervention per month regarding forced marriages. Sexual violence is on the rise, and finally, the other victims of sexual violence at the ASBL are increasingly confronted with multiple and different forms of violence. Although the Maison Plurielle recognizes the progress achieved in recent years thanks to the awareness of these problems, the finding remains worrying. Zero tolerance of this type of violence against women is still not applicable despite Belgium's commitments on the international scene. At the present time, important avenues for improvement remain to be explored, in particular in terms of the training and support of police officers and investigators – I also ask your colleague – but also in terms of an effective criminal policy to counter this type of abuse and to ensure prosecution of this type of act, to punish the perpetrators but also to psychologically support these women who are suffering. In their time, prosecutors, especially the Charleroi Public Prosecutor's Office, had considered this to be one of their priorities in criminal policy. Therefore, Minister, within the framework of the National Action Plan (NAP) against violence against women, what criminal policy is being pursued to combat this scourge, which causes too many victims every day? Is an evaluation planned under the NAP? What are the specific measures you are considering so that front-line social care can effectively support these victims?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic049x.u24	Mr Massin, good wishes to you too! The fact that an ASBL was recently assigned to Charleroi for the reception of women victims of violence is another rejoicing. Indeed, the problem deserves the necessary political attention, but the victims must above all receive a good reception, a good accompaniment on the ground as well as in their direct environment. Such initiatives deserve support and respect. You cite in your question forms of violence that women are too often victims of: partner violence, genital mutilation, forced marriage, sexual violence. All these forms of violence must be addressed in a multidisciplinary manner, in other words by all the departments concerned by the judicial approach as a repressive outcome of criminal policy in this area. The 2010-2014 NAP on combating violence between partners provided for many initiatives. The NAP was divided into four different chapters dealing with different issues, namely inter-partner violence, sexual mutilation, honour-related violence and forced marriage. You will understand that it is impossible, in the context of this oral question, to go into the details of all the strategic measures that have resulted from it. In addition, a new 2015-2019 NAP on gender-based violence is being developed. It is fully in line with the CAHVIO Convention of the Council of Europe (Convention on the Prevention and Combating of Violence against Women and Domestic Violence) adopted in Istanbul on 11 May 2011. This Convention has already been signed by Belgium and is currently in its final stage of ratification. The 2015-2019 NAP will be ambitious. It aims to combat all forms of gender-related violence and, like the previous NAP, will contain policy actions in the context of domestic violence, honour-related violence, genital mutilation and forced marriage. The new development is that measures against sexual violence will also be integrated into the NAP. Justice has been a partner of the NAP for years and is actively collaborating with other departments and levels of policy on a coherent multidisciplinary policy. Finally, I would like to refer to various criminal policy directives on domestic violence, such as COL 3/2006 on domestic violence and COL 4/2006 on criminal policy on domestic violence, as well as COL 10/2005 on the Sexual Abuse Set (SAS) etc. All of these criminal policy directives are discussed, monitored and evaluated within the FPS Justice and under the auspices of the College of Attorneys General. With regard specifically to honour-related violence, I can inform you that a sub-working group of the Network of Experts on Offences against Persons of the College of Attorneys General is considering a draft circular "honour-related violence" including the phenomenon of genital mutilation. With regard to the reception of victims on the front line by the services "reception of victims" of the justice houses and social reception services, I must refer you to the minister responsible for the matter of the federated entity.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic049x.u25	Minister, thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic049x.u26	Minister, too little attention is paid by our society to prisoners who suffer from a psychiatric disorder. However, it appears that 5 to 10 per cent of prisoners have a major psychiatric disorder and that almost half of the prisoners meet the criteria for diagnosis of an anti-social personality disorder. This trend is evident in all Western European countries, unfortunately. Yet the provision of psychiatric care suffers from a staggering shortage, both for interns and ordinary inmates. More than 1,100 internees are now inadequately treated in overcrowded psychiatric annexes or in ordinary prison cells. This poses problems for prison staff and management, but this mainly denies the right of interned persons to receive appropriate and individualized treatment. Minister, how do you envisage the path of care for patients with legal psychiatry? Can you give us more information about the specialized centre for observation and diagnosis of the perpetrators? Are you planning to increase the number of places for interns in suitable infrastructure?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic049x.u27	Mr Goffin, internment is a recurring problem. Moreover, our country has been condemned on several occasions in this regard by the European Court of Human Rights. Working towards a solution is therefore a priority. In fact, the government's statement leaves no doubt about this. As far as the journey of care is concerned, this is a matter which also depends on the Communities. It will be necessary to continue the dialogue in order to improve the situation and facilitate the care of internees in the conventional care system. The gradual implementation of the legal psychiatry centre in Ghent is also an important step in this process. Indeed, it allows for a transition accompanied by the internee between incarceration as a psychiatric annex and treatment in a conventional therapeutic setting. With this centre and that of Antwerp, under construction, the North of Belgium will finally have adequate care infrastructures for the care of interns. It is also important to note that additional places in the south of the country are being studied as part of an adapted master plan. As you can see, these are not just words, but concrete and precise actions. The establishment of a specialized centre for observation and diagnosis of perpetrators still needs to be operationalized. One of the possibilities is integration into Haren's project, but I cannot, at the moment, give you more details on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic049x.u28	Mr Minister, Article 21 of the Law of Principles of 12 January 2005 provides for the establishment of a Central Prison Supervision Council (CCSP) for Belgium as a whole. The mission of the Central Council is "to exercise independent control over prisons, the treatment of prisoners and the observance of their rules". The Central Council may also report to the Minister of Justice and to Parliament. In order to carry out these tasks, the Act provides for the independence of the Central Council from the minister and the general administration on which the prison administration depends. However, the effectiveness of this independence seems to be called into question by the Council itself: in its 2012 report, the Council recognises that its independence is "fragile", whether regulatoryly or in practice. In the Council's view, "the CPSC can be a truly independent external supervisory body only if it comes from the Federal Parliament and only if it is responsible for it". Minister, do you think the independence of the Central Prison Supervision Board is currently sufficiently assured? Are there any obstacles to the proper functioning of this Council? What is your position with regard to the possibility of making the Central Council of the Federal Parliament dependent only?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic049x.u29	Mr Goffin, first of all, I must point out that Article 21 referred to in the Law of Principles of 12 January 2005 has not yet entered into force, nor the following Articles, 22 to 31, which regulate supervision by the Central Prison Supervisory Board and the local supervisory commissions. Pending this entry into force, similar articles 129 to 138decies of the Royal Decree of 21 May 1965 on the general regulation of prisons are currently applicable. With regard to the independence of the Central Supervisory Board, I can say that both the government agreement and my policy statement indicate that the Council will now have to report to the House of Representatives to ensure independent oversight of the prison system. Of course, I will also be aware of the reports. At the organic level, the Council is attached to Federal Justice. According to article 130 of the Royal Decree of 21 May 1965, a Central Prison Supervision Board is established within the Federal Public Service Justice. The members of the Council shall be appointed by the King. Neither the prison administration nor my political unit, nor myself, interfere with the functioning of the Council or in the preparation of opinions and reports. I am informed that the Central Supervisory Council proposes to transfer the local councils and commissions to the Federal Parliament in order to ensure their organic independence from the Minister of Justice and the FPS Justice who control them. He also proposed that the members of the Council should be appointed by Parliament. A Council delegation has already established contacts to this end with my political cell. We continue to work to optimize their status and functioning. It is not up to me that the Council can depend on Parliament. In any event, I will work towards the full independence of the Council.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic049x.u30	Minister, thank you for your concern to ensure this independence.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic049x.u31	Mr. Chair, Mr. Minister, you announced in your policy note that you want to consider the possibility of bringing together inmates with a hazard profile that requires an appropriate security regime in a suitable additional facility. This initiative seems to me welcome given the difficulties encountered in all Belgian prisons due to the attitude of some detainees. However, some points need to be made. What do you mean by "dangerous profile"? Are you targeting prisoners convicted of particularly serious offences or prisoners with a violent and unmanageable attitude while in detention? How long are we talking about the beginning of this reflection? Will it be a small unit (a few dozen places) or a larger establishment (a few hundred places)? What do you mean by "adapted security regime"? Are you planning to put in place a specific framework to carry out personalized work with these so-called dangerous detainees?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic049x.u32	First of all, Mr Goffin, I would like to point out that at present no decision has been taken. The work undertaken around the so-called "dangerous" detainees is being considered and therefore, by definition, subject to sometimes substantial changes. In general, the idea is based on the following observation: in Belgium there is a clear imbalance between the levels of security required by the prisoner profile and the levels of security available. I explain to myself: when we talk about a dangerous profile, we talk about the risks that an inmate poses to the internal security of the prison. The seriousness of the facts may play a role, but the risk to the prison is taken into account. So we are talking about violent detainees, assailants, escapers, etc. What is now being observed? Most detainees do not have a particularly high profile of dangerousness, while detainees actually considered dangerous make up only 2 to 3 per cent of the population in detention. The vast majority of detainees do not pose a real problem in detention. However, this 2 per cent has a very heavy impact on the functioning of a prison. These detainees require special attention, specific security procedures, etc., which has a negative impact on the detention regime of other detainees. Typical example: these detainees are usually unable to have contact with others; therefore, they leave their cells only with agents and all the other detainees have been previously locked in their own cells. Thus, in practice, the entire prison is blocked by the simple movement of a single prisoner. In addition, these prisoners are distributed throughout all Kingdom prisons, with the result that they must maintain a high level of unnecessary security for most of the prison population, which entails a significant cost. The basic idea is therefore to bring these detainees together in an appropriate structure, with specific supervision, regime and work, to allow for long-term accommodation in optimal conditions of security. This is what will distinguish this establishment from the high-security section of Bruges, for example, intended for relatively short stays. Some ideas have already been circulated in the past, but at the moment I cannot give any details as to its location, its capacity, its organisation or others. As I said at the outset, the reflection is under way.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic049x.u33	Mr President, Minister, on December 2, 2004 – much has already been said this afternoon – the House of Representatives adopted the law of principles concerning the administration of prisons and the legal status of prisoners, also known as the law of principles or the law of Dupont. This law is the result of a long work of reflection initiated in 1997 by Professor Dupont and continued by a parliamentary committee. The adoption of this law was aimed at ending a legal vacuum. Indeed, there was no solid legal basis for Belgian prison law and the legal status of detainees. According to the report of the committee responsible for drafting the Act, there was an urgent need to regulate this matter by legal means and to define precisely the rights and obligations of detainees, as well as the objectives to be pursued in the application of custodial measures and sentences. Almost 10 years have passed since the adoption of this law. However, some of its articles have not yet entered into force. Among the provisions that have been implemented, some have remained dead letter due to the difficulties encountered by prison policy over the past several years. You stated in your policy statement that you want to adapt the law of principles before fully implementing it. Minister, what provisions of the Law of Principles are you considering adapting? What is the aim of this will to adapt? Are you planning an evaluation of the law of principles, before proceeding with its adaptation? Within what time frame do you envisage the full implementation of this law of principles?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic049x.u34	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is a fact that not all the provisions of the Law of Principles of 12 January 2005 have yet entered into force. The most important are the supervision of prisons by the Central Prison Supervisory Board and local commissions, labour, health care and health protection, the right to file complaints, and the planning of detention. The first three measures are indeed covered by the provisions of the Royal Decree of 21 May 1965 on the general regulation of prisons. Both the Government Agreement and the Policy Statement provide for the full implementation of the Principles Act of 12 January 2005 in order to guarantee all rights and obligations of a detainee in a formal law. Before these provisions come into force, I will ask the prison administration about possible adjustments and improvements to the law. With regard to prison supervision and the right to complain, I will continue my contacts with the Central Supervisory Board. I refer you to my answer to your oral question No 942. The likely adaptations to the articles already in force concern, in particular, the chapter on health care and health protection. Some aspects of this regulation are in contravention of other legislation. Another possible adaptation relates, as mentioned above, to the chapter on oversight bodies, the Central Prison Supervisory Board and the supervisory commissions. The independence of these bodies is currently not sufficiently guaranteed, so that a possible transfer to Parliament, by analogy with Committee I and Committee P, should be considered. A final adaptation may aim to give a more appropriate internal legal status to internees, staying in social defence institutions and legal psychiatry centres. My political unit will evaluate all aspects of the law in collaboration with the administration and, where appropriate, other bodies. The entry into force will gradually take place, depending on the needs, the available budget and the organization of prisons. It is not yet possible, at present, to specify the deadlines.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic049x.u35	Mr President, Minister, I wish you all the best in this post-fest period. I am very close to a number of cases in the Verviers district, which is my responsibility, Minister, and in particular those relating to the justice sector. I asked you a few weeks ago about the Verviers courthouse; you told me that you had to consult with the minister in charge of the Régie des Bâtiments, I questioned him yesterday and a partially satisfactory answer was sent to me since the state decided to acquire new buildings to house, in any case, the Verviers courthouse. That's a good thing. However, there remains a major issue regarding the future of the prison in this district. This prison had to be closed for security reasons several months ago since it was enough to push from the inside to the outside on the stones of the walls to get out of it, which is not, you will agree, the primary purpose of a prison. Therefore, there are many question marks in this file. I would therefore have liked you to tell me, Mr. Minister, what is the status of the plan to rebuild the Verviers prison, which is part of the Masterplan ter of the previous government. What decisions have been taken in this regard today? Technically, will it be a public/private partnership? What will be the capacity of this prison and what type of prisoners will be taken care of? And more importantly, do you have a timing regarding the work and return of inmates to Verviers? I know that you are working with your colleague from the Régie des Bâtiments on this, but it is important for me to know the exact position of the Minister of Justice on the future of the prison in Verviers, who, I would remind you, has special obligations since it covers a territory which is the bilingual district of Verviers, which is indeed 60,000 German-speaking, and we are very attentive to the linguistic minorities in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic049x.u36	Mr. Frédéric, I wish you all the best. The prison in Verviers closed its doors in November 2013, as you are aware. The detainees and staff who were still working in the institution were transferred and transferred to other prisons, including the Lantin prison. These prisons, such as Verviers, in the Francophone linguistic region, have remained the same language rules. No final decision has yet been taken on the reconstruction of the Verviers prison. However, you know that a new project with 240 individual cells has been included in the Masterplan ter and is therefore under study. I cannot give you more details at this time, but I will not fail to keep you informed as soon as a political decision has been taken within the government on the Masterplan ter.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic049x.u37	Mr President, Minister, thank you. I pledge to keep an eye on the case and to re-examine you, if necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic049x.u38	Question No 1, by Mr De Pasquale (H-l Mr Terwingen's 962 and 988 were postponed. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Cheron's 1003 question was converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic049x.u39	Mr Minister, I was aware of a peculiar situation concerning the Failmanager file for the electronic handling of bankruptcy files. I heard that through a cooperation between various East and West Flanders offices, almost all the judges in commercial matters, several curators and the private firm Aginco, a system was developed to manage and follow up bankruptcy files electronically. That system is called Failmanager. According to my information, the system would have been used by many of these authorities over the past three years and perhaps even longer, especially to the satisfaction of the clerks at the courts of commerce, the courts in commercial matters and various magistrates and curators. On the other hand, I heard the views of the OVB and the staff members who seem to have been involved by it. According to them, the above-mentioned application used by the courts would be illegal. Therefore, pending a KB to be issued by the government, the OVB considers that Failmanager should no longer be used. From the correspondence, which I have read, the OVB would also invoke a protocol between it and the FPS Justice in which it was appointed to develop such a system. Illegality would also include the fact that the law on public procurement was not respected. Nor would privacy be respected. However, the system Failmanager would offer a lot of advantages, I heard. A great deal of red tape would be reduced and there would be much more control over the money management of the deposit fund. An efficient system for cost statements could also be introduced, among other things. Minister, I believe that we have the same intentions. In the interests of justice, where everyone is begging for efficiency, there must be clarity in such situations, because such conflicting signals cripple the normal functioning of justice and no one will benefit from it. Do you confirm that the system of Failmanager has been used in several courts for a number of years to the satisfaction of, among others, the clerks? In your opinion, what are the possible consequences of this, and I should like to express myself very carefully - illegalities with which the system would have been affected? If there are certain unlawful acts today, does the question arise whether they can be eliminated by issuing a royal decree or whether more is needed? If it is possible with a royal decree, when is such royal decree planned? Do you have any knowledge of the case law of the Constitutional Court that the supervision of curators falls within the jurisdiction of the court of commerce and no longer under the Order of Lawyers? What does this lead you to in relation to the OVB's conversion letters to the curators regarding the prohibition of continuing to work with the system? What value do you attach to the protocol reached between the FPS Justice and the OVB, now that it appears that the colleges of courts and courts would not have been involved, although the protocol deals with the internal functioning of courts and courts? I believe that those involved should be involved. Finally, should there be a public procurement procedure in the future or would you prefer a different formula, for example a protocol between FPS Justice and some other partner, that could be the OVB or the courts in commercial matters or other? In short, what is to be done for the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic049x.u40	Mr Degroote, may I say in advance that the computer program to which you refer is not part of the IT projects set up by the ICT Department of Justice? It is an application that organises the handling of bankruptcy files and it was launched a few years ago as a pilot project by a court in commercial matters. The software is used by a number of curators, judges in commercial matters, clerks of courts of commerce and some presidents. The fact that a number of points of discussion about the use of this software have developed is familiar to me. My cabinet already had contacts with the various actors and it was pointed out in my introductory talks with members of the judicial order. In reply to your specific questions, I can say the following for the time being. As far as your first question is concerned, it has also been confirmed to me that whoever uses the software expresses his or her satisfaction with its functionalities. That is not surprising, because the project started bottom-up and left from the needs and frustrations of the users. Typical for such projects is that they respond well to the concrete needs of those users. As regards your second and third questions, since it is not a software set up by the Justice Department, I cannot answer you. Unlawfulness of software may be too heavy a term. It is, of course, primarily the responsibility of the software designer, in this case a private company, to ensure that it does not infringe any legal provisions. To the extent that the software is used by judicial staff and Registrys, the question must of course be asked whether there are elements that would not comply with certain legislation. If this is the case, it should be remedied or its use discontinued. Today, the various parties concerned do not agree on this. This will therefore become clearer in the coming weeks. In reply to your fourth question, I would point out that curators are lawyers. From this point of view, they are subject to disciplinary and professional rules, which are monitored by the counters. When they act as liquidators of bankruptcy, they must, of course, comply with the regulatory framework associated with it. A consultation with the OVB is planned for next week to clarify the problem. A meeting to be held yesterday had to be postponed. In reply to your fifth question, it is not entirely correct that the magistrate would not have been involved at any point in the conclusion of the protocol. The magistrates of the courts of commerce that use the application have indeed been involved in the discussions. The protocol had the ambition to clarify whether and to what extent the costs associated with the use of the application could be borne by the bankrupt estate. In reply to your sixth question, I can tell you that the question on public procurement has not come up because, as has been said, it is not a project prepared and ordered by the FPS Justice Department. Since the issue arose in December 2014, I have followed them up and taken the initiative to bring the parties concerned together. The experience gained under a pilot project is valuable, as the users also testify. The challenge for the curators and for my ICT department of the FPS is to bring all actors, both curators, judges in commercial matters, clerks and magistrates, into a joint approach, which is as useful and efficient as possible, within a legal framework, of course. I am convinced that this is possible. This will also be part of the global ICT strategy, which I promised to explain in March 2015. We shall have the opportunity to return to the matter. It will also give me the opportunity to indicate how we have solved the problem, which is now rice.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic049x.u41	Thank you, Minister, for your detailed reply. I have the impression that you know and understand the file very well. I am pleased that you also see the benefits of the system. You are also in the dark about the demand for unlawful acts. I fear that this is a discussion between the OVB and the firm itself. The OVB may wrongly cite these illegalities. That statement goes too far. On the other hand, the question arises as to whether it is the OVB's job to develop such programmes. You will undoubtedly want to include this question in the further discussions you will have with the actors involved. In any case, thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic049x.u42	Minister, on 7 December, the staff of the Ittre prison began a strike action, now completed, in order to express their disagreement with the measures taken by the government, including the planned savings measures in the sector. The decision to reduce the number of agents at the beginning and end of the day causes a lot of dissatisfaction among the agents. I also had the opportunity to visit the prison with the Prison Observatory. The officers then expressed their concerns. As a result of these protests, which were legitimate in the light of the situation, the 420 detainees were deprived of telephones, showers, preau, visits and canteens. This situation has caused a very tense climate within the prison. Although work has resumed, tensions remain. Meetings were held between unions and management. Can you tell me what the results are? Are other meetings on the agenda? Can you tell me what impact your measure of reducing prison staff's budgets for Ittre prison will have? What solutions do you envisage for staff members who would be forced to leave Ittre prison? Are there any planned trips to other prisons? If so, how many officers will they be involved in and to which prisons?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic049x.u43	Dear colleague, it has not been decided to reduce the number of officers at the beginning and end of the day in prisons. It is true that the administration has launched this path of economy, but no decision has been taken. I have already stated here that the government's decision to save 4% on staff costs for 2015 is very difficult to apply for the Department of Justice. I have already announced to the honourable member that I will present a comprehensive plan for justice and that I will ask the government for another rate of savings. I also agreed, on 16 December 2014, with trade union organizations, to establish seven working groups on prisons and security bodies. A group is dedicated to the theme of rationalising and modernising working methods, including working methods, building modernization, combating overpopulation, including Tilburg, and differentiation between the various prisons. I am not yet in a position to say whether the solutions found in consultation with the trade union organisations will have an impact on the staff of the prison.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic049x.u44	Thank you, Minister, for these answers. You had already applied for an adjustment, which was not heard. I really hope that the additional resources that you will be asking for in the near future will be provided by the government to ensure decent working conditions for all these prison officers, who often do difficult work in tense conditions. I hope you will be given the means to respect their work.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic049x.u45	Mr.President, Minister, in 2013, more than 125 million girls and women were subjected to excision and nearly 30 million more girls are at risk of being subjected to excision over the next ten years. In Belgium, more than 13,000 women were excised in 2012. The figures have more than doubled since 2008, but more than 4,000 girls are not immune to excision. To stem this phenomenon, associations fight against female genital mutilation (FGM), day after day, in communities and communities where the risk is considered the highest, through information and awareness-raising. Better results could be achieved by raising awareness among professional groups that can face this phenomenon upstream, including judicial professionals. These, sufficiently informed about the situation and the contexts that are favourable or trained to recognize the early signs, could play a crucial role in preventing the phenomenon of FGM. A first step could be the appointment of reference magistrates, who were particularly aware of the problem. This would undoubtedly improve the understanding of the whole profession of the problem and the knowledge of the case for these magistrates. Secondly, a campaign to raise awareness of these occupational categories could be envisaged, in particular to instill appropriate reactions and know who to contact. In the long run, why not even imagine that this problem is included in the basic curriculum of the justice sector? This, in my view, would be the first steps in the right direction. Moreover, they would fit perfectly with the government's ambition to promote the universality of human rights, as stipulated in your policy note.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic049x.u46	Mr President, Mr Foret, female genital mutilation has been punishable in Belgium since 2001 on the basis of article 409 of the Criminal Code. To date, however, no convictions have been handed down and there have been only a limited number of prosecutions. You are quoting the prevalence study of the Public Health FPS which actually shows that the phenomenon also occurs in Belgium and that thousands of Belgian girls are at risk of being excised. Unfortunately, the facts are difficult to detect, in part because parents often act according to their traditions and the facts come to be known much later or remain in the sphere of taboo. The black figure of this phenomenon is difficult to estimate. To address this phenomenon, detection and prevention are key words and multidisciplinary collaboration is essential. As part of the National Action Plan (NAP) to combat violence between partners, special attention has been paid to this phenomenon since 2010. Initiatives have already been taken in this policy framework from different areas of competence. I can refer here to various initiatives taken in this country by the Communities because of their competence in matters of welfare and assistance, such as the concerted strategies to combat female genital mutilation in the Wallonia-Brussels federation or the initiatives of the Flemish Forum for Abused Children, with numerous recommendations on information to target groups, awareness-raising and information to professionals and recommendations on detection, risk assessment and monitoring. This would, however, lead us too far in the context of this question and, moreover, fall within the competence of my colleagues from the federated entities. The prosecution policy and the judicial approach to this problem can unfortunately only be the cornerstone of the repressive threat, the oral norm or if it is necessary to impose a sanction. The investigation and prosecution policy in this area is taken to heart in the network of expertise "offences against persons" within the College of Attorneys General where a sub-working group is looking at a draft circular "Violence based on honour", including the phenomena of female genital mutilation. The circular will also refer to the prevention and protection aspects of this phenomenon and maximum coherence will be sought with the youth policy in Flanders, Wallonia and Brussels. Finally, I can inform you that a new National Action Plan (NAP) to combat violence between partners 2015-2019 on gender-based violence is also being drafted, which will be fully integrated into the provisions of the CAHVIO Treaty, namely at the level of the Council of Europe, the Istanbul Convention on the Prevention and Combating of Violence against Women and Domestic Violence of 11 May 2011. This Convention has already been signed by Belgium and is in the final stage of ratification. In the new NAP, specific intention will again be given to the issue of female genital mutilation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic049x.u47	Minister, thank you for the reminder of the various initiatives that have been taken at different levels of authority. I would also like to thank you for continuing to raise the awareness of staff in the area of federal competence and, above all, at the repressive level, to be able, within the framework of the NAP against violence between partners, to integrate these aspects as well.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic049x.u48	Questions 222, 940 and 946 of Mrs Detiège and I are postponed. My question No 945 is also postponed and my question No 947 is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic049x.u49	Minister, there are times when sick prisoners cannot be treated properly within the institution in which they are incarcerated or in a medical-surgical prison. These detainees must therefore be transferred to civilian hospitals. Experience and recent developments have shown all the difficulties that could be associated with the transfer of prisoners and their hospitalization. I would therefore like to take stock of the measures taken on that occasion. In what cases can an inmate be transferred to a civilian hospital? Who decides on this transfer? How is the transfer made? Who is accompanying the inmate? What measures are being taken to limit the risks associated with the transfer of inmates to hospital and during their hospitalization? Who monitors the inmate during hospitalization? What are the modalities of this monitoring? What measures are being taken to ensure the safety of doctors and medical personnel in the hospital to which the inmate is transferred? What measures are being taken to ensure the proper treatment of detainees and respect for medical confidentiality?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic049x.u50	Mr Goffin, as far as possible, the prison administration is trying to avoid inmate hospitalizations by encouraging treatment, either in a conventional prison or in a medical-surgical centre. In some cases, however, hospitalization is necessary. This is a medical decision taken in consultation with local management, or in some cases with the central administration. The procedures and security measures for hospitalisation are regulated by Ministerial Circular 1780 of 23 December 2005 on security measures for the transfer of an inmate to hospital during a medical consultation or during a hospitalisation. With regard to a safety circular, I will not give the details, but I can assure you that all means are being used to ensure the safety of the inmate, health care staff, visitors, other patients and the proper treatment of the inmate in hospital.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic049x.u51	Questions No 1032 by Mrs Fabienne Winckel, No 1075 by Mrs Rita Bellens and No 1095 by Mrs Carina Van Cauter are postponed. Question No 1076 by Mr Koenraad Degroote is transformed into a written question, as is question No 1106 by Mr Philippe Goffin.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic049x.u52	Minister, in Belgium, recourse to forensic medicine, in the event of violent death or death of unknown cause, is left to the discretion of the King's prosecutor in charge of the case. The choice of place of autopsy is the responsibility of the forensic doctor responsible for carrying out the examination. Depending on their nature, forensic examinations can be carried out, either at the scene or in the autopsy room. I have been told that some funeral directors in the country have been encouraged to set up an autopsy room in their facilities. In doing so, they made a significant financial investment, which their collaboration with neighbouring prosecutors' offices was supposed to make over the years profitable. However, according to my information, after having been used for some time, some of these private autopsy rooms are now abandoned, for no apparent reason, to other places of examination. If this situation raises questions, it is because apparently useless transfers of several tens of kilometres are made. For example, the bodies to be thoroughly examined are transferred, at the taxpayer's expense, to other cities, while they could be examined in much closer autopsy rooms. In the end, the bill for the public prosecutor's office can be very high, since it is necessary to count not only the round trip in order to bring the deceased to the place of examination, but also the round trip to bring him back to his family. It seems to me that this is a potential source of savings for our country's prosecutors, with a certain rationalisation of the practice of forensic medicine. My questions, Minister, are as follows. Do you have more precise information about how autopsy sites are selected? Is it possible to make recommendations to prosecutors in order to encourage them to make savings in this area?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic049x.u53	Mr Goffin, the appointment of the place of autopsy is the responsibility of the requesting magistrate. As a general rule, he was an investigating judge, and the King's prosecutor could only order him in the event of a flagrante delicto. In practice, forensic doctors preferably perform autopsyes in the same place, which is equipped for this purpose. As with your question on DNA analyses, I would like to recall that the College of Attorneys General cannot provide statistics on oral parliamentary questions, given the short response time. The supply of statistics by the statistical analysts of the Public Prosecutor's Office is subject to a strict procedure during which all figures to be published must be validated by all the prosecutors of the King of the jurisdictions concerned. It follows that statistics will be provided, provided that they are available, only on the occasion of written parliamentary questions, with the deadline for reply permitting the required procedure. In view of the time allotted, only two public prosecutor's offices were able to be surveyed in an emergency, those of Antwerp and Limburg. In this regard, I note that the practical problems that you raise in your question are not localized, so I have not been able to direct this survey more precisely or verify who would have encouraged a particular funeral company in the country to set up an autopsy room in its facilities. A king's attorney, a coroner? I don't know. The district of Antwerp has a university center of forensic medicine, it is the latter that is used as well as the university center of forensic medicine of Leuven, especially for the division of Malines. This choice ensures the quality of the services. Within the Limburg district, the team of forensic doctors carries out external examinations at Louvain University Hospital and autopsyes at Gasthuisberg Hospital in the same city. In order to achieve savings, it might be considered that judges should be recommended to carry out autopsies in the rooms closest to the places of the facts, but they would always be free of the requisitions they deemed necessary, since investigating judges were not obliged to comply with the directives of the College of Public Prosecutors, which bound only the judges of the Public Prosecutor's Office. Furthermore, I cannot tell you that it would be more economical to impose the procedure of autopsy on forensic doctors in various places rather than in the specially equipped rooms they use as far as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic049x.u54	Minister, thank you for having conducted this survey despite the relatively short time frame. A written question will be introduced for further clarification and a more complete view of the situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic049x.u55	I wish to turn my question No 1108 into a written question. Question nr. 1141 by Mrs Karin Jiroflée is postponed.
