ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic133x.u1	Madam Minister, at the January 6th commission, you announced that the nuclear contribution and its method of calculation will be assessed in the coming weeks in conjunction with the National Bank and the CREG, which will keep you regularly informed of the progress of the joint work. At the March 3 commission, you made it clear that the work was progressing well. My question then was what the conclusions of this work were. We received the CREG and the National Bank last week in a hearing. They told us they had finished their work. It was just a matter of hours, if not days, to hand over the document to us. I had tabled this question before the hearing took place. But maybe by then, you can eventually update.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic133x.u2	Madam Minister, my question is with that of my colleague, Mr Nollet. Your statements about your project to reduce the nuclear rent tax already date back a few weeks. In any case, that's what the press reports. I think that raises the question. At the current market price, for 2014, the benefits of nuclear power would be expected to be EUR 830 million. These are the estimates. In the event of Doel 1 and 2 being retained, one could exceed one billion euros. In this context, to hear that the tax would fall, questions the question. Can you clarify your position with respect to this? Can you give us the nuclear contribution for 2015? Has CREG completed its calculations? Do you consider this contribution sufficient in view of the benefits generated by Electrabel? Are you planning to invest this nuclear contribution in financing sustainable energy production?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic133x.u3	Colleagues, your questions have caught my best attention. As you know, CREG and BNB have examined the evolution of the costs and benefits of electricity production by fission of nuclear fuels. This work ended last week. Let me incise. At the beginning of the process, it had been agreed that I would be kept regularly informed of the work. These two bodies worked together. The figures were sent to me at the very end of last week. They will correspond with your communication, since the CREG has, moreover, presented to you at the hearings on 25 March its new methodology and its conclusions concerning an updated study of the structure of the costs of electricity production by nuclear power plants in Belgium and of the economic evaluation of the said production. It also presented an estimate of the benefits derived from these activities. The CREG has promised you an aggregate version of its study in the coming days. I have no doubt that Mr. Secretary is in the process of receiving these documents. In addition, the NBB validated in session the methodology used by CREG. This is already a first good news in that, like me, you know that they have worked together and that their assessments are consistent. To the extent that the study, in its confidential version, contains data – which are no less so – linked to commercial information and business secrets, you will understand that I cannot disclose its content in committee and that it will therefore be up to you to obtain the version of the CREG. Perhaps we should remind the CREG of its remarks of March 25, according to which it would transmit the documents to you. As a reminder, these estimates relate to the benefit derived from nuclear activity. The determination of an annuity on the basis of these amounts is a matter of policy. Also, the nuclear contribution itself is based on the contributory capacity of the contributors. And as stated by the Constitutional Court in its judgment 106/2014 of 17 July 2014: "This is assessed by the legislator, in particular by taking into account the nuclear rent, which is estimated in relation to the total capacity of electricity generation by fission of nuclear fuels installed on Belgian territory. It will therefore be necessary, depending on the existence of a nuclear rent or not, to determine the appropriate allocation contribution amount." At this stage, the amount set out in the 2015 budget for the allocation contribution is EUR 405 million. It is premature, for the time being, to answer Mr. Van Hees, in so far as, firstly, it is impossible for me to give you figures before the communication by the CREG of the aggregate study and to be able to discuss them together; secondly, the choice of whether or not to maintain the distribution contribution is, at this stage, premature; thirdly, the assessment of the sufficiency of the latter is also made in the light of the potentially expropriatory, confiscatory nature appreciated by the courts and tribunals on the basis of the contributory capacity of the debtors, in particular the height of the nuclear rent. Finally, it is also premature to answer your last question. Indeed, it is for the legislator, in the event that he decides to levy a distribution contribution for 2015, to determine its purpose. So far, the allocation contribution has been made to the Ways and Means budget, with the aim of financing, in particular, the energy transition and measures to ensure security of supply.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic133x.u4	Mr President, Madam Minister, I wish we could stop playing cat and mouse. I understand that you remind the secretariat, who will be receiving the study of the CREG in an imminent manner, that he can, or should, contact the CREG again. Nevertheless, you have had the numbers since Friday, you told us. I'm not asking for the confidential part, I'm asking for the global figure. I ask that because you are coming out of a budget adjustment and perhaps that amount should have been adjusted as well. We know very well that the figure communicated by CREG will not be the figure of the nuclear contribution, but the figure of the estimated profit. Can you give us at least that figure, as well as the calculation made on this basis to estimate the amount of the contribution? In the context of a budgetary adjustment, if we want to update the figures, and obviously we want to do so in relation to the regions, it seems to me logical that we should also have the information on the nuclear contribution. If that's possible, minister, let's get out of this little game of cat and mouse. At least give us the global figure. I do not ask for the details or the confidential part until I have received the official part by CREG. Do you have that number?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic133x.u5	The minister will eventually speak after Mr. Van Hees.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic133x.u6	Mr President, in any case, compared to the decrease that the minister announced on November 15, 2014, the government decides to recalculate the nuclear rent as part of the possible extension of the Doel 1 and 2 reactors, and this should not be on the rise, L'Echo said on Saturday. Perhaps the journalist misunderstood your intentions. It would then be interesting for you to reiterate that you do not plan to reduce the nuclear rent tax. If you have received the figures from CREG, I am surprised that you are not communicating them today. Perhaps you still have to be given the opportunity to pass them on now. As to the confiscatory nature of such a tax, it seems to me that the courts have ruled several times in favour of the State. Why would this case law not continue in the future? I do not fully understand your reasoning with respect to this argument. Budget 2015 announced the amount of $405 million you cited. So it would be interesting to know where we're going. Are we going to maintain this amount or to a larger or smaller amount?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic133x.u7	I just received the documents and I still have to analyze them. It is not my direct responsibility to communicate them to you. On the other hand, the CREG told you that it was going to send you an aggregated version, that is, a version with a certain setback on the figures and an explanation of the methodology. I think it is best to discuss a document that is the same for you as it is for me. In my opinion, it's better to wait. I do not play cat and mouse but I would like to be able to discuss with you calmly on an identical document, the one projected by the institution which, in agreement with the National Bank of Belgium, has drawn up this calculation on the basis of a methodology. I think it is much more relevant to start from that document. Mr Van Hees, as far as the height is concerned, I am a little surprised. Journalists are committed to what they write. I recall that the government agreement states that it is not impossible to review the nuclear rent. But that doesn't mean we're going to see her one way or the other again. Of course, as regards the confiscatory or non-confiscatory nature of a tax measure, you know very well that it depends on each situation, at every moment, and in particular on the results of the undertaking. Justice therefore appreciates the confiscatory nature of each case, provided that it is seized by the operator. But I have no doubt that he will, since he has done so systematically from the beginning. The Constitutional Court will assess in any case the confiscatory nature of the case. For our part, we must avoid being condemned because what we would foresee would be confiscatory in the light of the company's results. So it's this exercise that I have to do and not another.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic133x.u8	Mr President, as it should be, the honourable Member has the last word. Madam Minister, I would like to express my disappointment because, even in a situation where you have had the number since Friday and you know that it will come to us, you refuse to give it to us. I can't understand that. Let's be clear! It's not a game. It is a will in your leadership not to play transparency with Parliament, when that figure exists, we have the right to have it and, moreover, it should reach us. You'd rather wait. This poses a problem with the adjustment that you have closed, since these amounts are no longer relevant.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic133x.u9	Madam Minister, if I hear you correctly, the number will be down. That seems to me to be quite clear from what you are saying. Maybe it came out in spite of you! This decline was announced, in any case implicitly, before and the confiscatory nature that you are raising worries me. Indeed, if we analyze Electrabel's accounts a little bit, we see that there is what I would call "accounting manipulations" to show a deficit year. It is quite a dangerous manoeuvre, or at least a questionable one, that is being implemented.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic133x.u10	I assume that the questionable manipulation of Electrabel only engages those who speak of it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic133x.u11	Mr President, I would still like not to let anything say. I am not saying that at all and it is only the member who says so!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic133x.u12	We agree.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic133x.u13	Madam Minister, some time ago there was a lawsuit by the energy producers on injection rates. On the basis of the destruction, Elia proposed new tariffs for electricity transport. This was once again the subject of proceedings before the Court of Appeal, this time by the major consumers of electricity under the Dome Febeliec. The judgment on the substance was postponed several times. Potentially, he could have a big impact. I understand that there has been a ruling in the meantime, especially last Wednesday. The relevant questions are as follows. Can you explain the verdict? How are we supposed to interpret it? I understand that, given the verdict, there will be no destruction. I am sure you can tell me more about this.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic133x.u14	Mr President, the honourable Member's question is certainly interesting, but it does not fall within the competence of the public authorities. This question must be sent to the CREG, the federal regulator for gas and electricity. In accordance with the legislation in force and Article 12 of the Law of 29 April 1999 on the electricity market, the operator of the Elia network shall draw up the tariff proposal in accordance with the tariff methodology established by the CREG and introduce it in accordance with the procedure for the introduction and approval of tariffs. For its part, CREG shall examine the tariff proposal, decide on its approval and communicate its reasoned decision to the system operator in accordance with the procedure for the introduction and approval of tariffs. In this area, as the Federal Minister for Energy, I do not have any authority over the CREG or electricity transmission tariffs. According to the information available, the Brussels Appeal Court annulled the decision of the CREG of 22 December 2011 on the approval of electricity transmission tariffs for the period 2012-2015 on 6 February 2013. In its judgment, the Court followed the argument to challenge the injection rates for the use of network infrastructure and ancillary services, as well as the volume fee. Even if the other tariff components are not challenged, the Court of Appeal has set aside the entire tariff decision to the extent that it is indivisible. However, it recognizes Elia's right to have tariffs covering all of its costs for the period 2012-2015. However, according to my information, Elia has taken the necessary steps to obtain adapted tariffs approved by CREG. Pending the decision of CREG on these adapted tariff proposals, in order to preserve the continuity of the exercise of its role as electricity transmission system operator, Elia will continue to draw up its invoices on a provisional basis in accordance with the 2012-2015 transmission rates, as approved by the CREG decision of 22 December 2011. On the basis of the schedule set out in consultation with CREG, adapted rates to cover all costs for the period 2012-2015, taking into account the decision of the Court of Appeal, are, as far as I know, expected in May 2015. I therefore invite the honourable Member to contact the federal regulator in order to obtain all information on the decision of the Brussels appeal court.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic133x.u15	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. My question was indeed about the last procedure initiated by Febeliec since 2013, i.e. after the procedure you explained. I have heard that on Wednesday there was a ruling on the matter in which the tariffs were not destroyed. I will look up my information at the CREG so that we can be absolutely sure of this.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic133x.u16	Mr. Chair, Minister, you made a commitment to quickly assess the release plan because it will have to be put back on the job next year and the work is underway. You would therefore quickly propose the necessary changes in order to prepare for next winter. Minister, what are the conclusions of this evaluation? What changes do you intend to make? When will the new provisions be formally communicated? What about regional ports and airports? You will recall our previous discussions in this area as you also announced changes to this component for the next winter. Mr President, I have been very brief.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic133x.u17	We are grateful to you, Mr. Nollet.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic133x.u18	Mr President, Mr Nollet, I have, for my part, a long reply which may be counterproductive. First of all, let us go back to the history of the situation that you know very well. With regard to the reasons, the plan designed between 2002 and 2005 met a specific situation and, at that time, we had a much larger and more demand-friendly production stock, which is no longer the case today. As a result, the risk has increased significantly and our security of supply is based both on the leniency of the weather sky and on the availability of energy in neighbouring countries so that it can be imported. The dissemination of the plan last autumn, notably through the Off/On campaign, allowed to verify its implementation conditions, its relevance and its ability to respond to the problems encountered. Even though there was no question of changing plans in the middle of winter – I repeated it quite again – our fears were great that we would have to trigger this plan, which was obviously not more appropriate. On 13 January, I made the decision to revise this document. In this context, I have consulted extensively. I've received the governors. I've heard a lot of burgers. I have met with various federations, agencies and actors on the ground, so that I have a comprehensive view of the gaps that need to be addressed. Since then, we have been working. The revision process is led by DG Energy, which is housed in the SPF Economy, in close liaison with my firm and involves the management of the Federal Crisis Centre, the Walloon and Flemish Crisis Centres, Elia, Synergrid and, according to the subjects covered, various specialist stakeholders. I wanted the whole process to be organised on the principle of bottom to the top, so that remarks, observations, grievances addressed to the various levels of authority or stakeholders could be grouped together, analysed so that, if necessary, they could be prioritized. This collection is currently being carried out by those who are familiar with it, the actors in the federal crisis planning and management chain covered by the Royal Decree of 16 February 2006, i.e. the Federal Crisis Centre, the governors and the mayors. What are the tracks followed? First of all, legislative changes. From a legal point of view, the current plan was already low. The ministerial decree of 3 June 2005 did not fully comply with the requirements of the Royal Decree of 19 December 2002 on which it was issued. The order of priorities was different in both texts. On the other hand, some of the resulting provisions were incompatible with obligations arising from international agreements or texts such as those issued by the International Civil Aviation Organisation for the airports of Liège and Charleroi or those issued by the International Maritime Organisation for the Port of Ghent. A better definition of the concepts of priorities and the identification procedure concerning them, a merit order, re-engagements, better management of sensitive customers, correct application of the criterion of proportionality in relation to the zonal load are all aspects which are currently being studied. Thus, and with regard to priorities, the hospitals taken into account will be those included in a list approved by the Public Health FPS. Criticisms of current plans have their origins in the indiscriminate application of cut-off to a given area with little or no regard to the effects on the sites on which they are located, if not some of the priorities within the meaning of the Ministerial Order. Generally speaking, these are so-called sensitive sites. This term may in fact cover a multitude of situations which cannot be circumscribed by means of a legal definition, if not by designating the competent bodies to consider them as such and to take on them the provisions which the urgency imposes. These may include embankment sites, industries, administrative units, central water distribution units, dams or other facilities or sites that may be essential in certain circumstances. This assessment must be left to me and to the Minister of the Interior and to the bodies responsible for planning and managing the crisis so that, whatever the circumstances, solutions can always be found to critical situations or situations that may become so. In this context, I said that I intended to leave the port of Ghent, as well as the airports of Charleroi and Liège and why not the demerger stations. This is part of the global reflection that I have just outlined. As far as zoning is concerned, it is recalled that last autumn criticisms were made about the equitable distribution of energy saving efforts at the country level. We are looking for a way to apply the plan more proportionally to each area. This proportional application will be maintained. However, it will be translated differently to obtain both a better readability of the device and, of course, an overall amount of deletable power substantially equal to or greater in order to adapt the device to the reality of the risk. In history, I explained to you that our risks were greater than when designing this plan. The data on these new cuttings will be validated by 15 May so that they can be made readily available to authorities and land stakeholders. I am showing you that the work is progressing and that we are moving forward on all levels! For all authorities, whether they are the federal government, federated entities, governors, mayors, security services, businesses or citizens, one of the most serious impacts of the discharge is the virtual collapse of communication systems. We've already talked about it. For a person who is alone, vulnerable, elderly or ill, the absence of a call is far more serious than that of light. It is impossible to call 911 or the police in case of need. As early as January, I considered this impact to be major and instructed my services to make it a priority for my work in this area, as an objective of maintaining, as far as possible, a gsm communication network to reach these services, even in the event of unloading and throughout the duration of the unloading. A working group has therefore been set up in close liaison with the Federal Crisis Centre and DG Energy and has already made various proposals to meet this objective. I have contacted my Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Telecommunications, Mr Alexander De Croo, to coordinate this process together. Details of these measures will be provided to you in the coming weeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic133x.u19	Minister, I think I did well to be very brief in my question so that you could provide a complete answer. I will try to retain the principle! I understand that all the work is not yet done. In addition, you clearly give me your calendar as you announce the date of May 15. Second thought: fortunately, the plan should not have been implemented! I am not speaking for the people concerned, but in view of the legal solidity in which you should have triggered it. You have demonstrated the weaknesses of this plan in your response. You were not yet a minister when we had a discussion in August. I had already intervened at the time on the weakness of the link between the ministerial decree and the 2002 decree. The Ministerial Order could have been amended quickly. When you took up your duties, you preferred not to mess up everything, which I can understand. So I didn't put pressure on this part. But today, we realize that there was a huge legal weakness and I am pleased to see that our analyses are coming together in this area. The winter being behind us, let us turn to the future! International conventions have consequences for our own organization. And it is certainly not possible by ministerial decree or by government decree or even by law to be above these obligations. I understand that for ports and airports, corrections will be made. It seems to me to be one of the absolutely necessary dimensions. That being said, I feel the need for a much more flexible distribution system and much more able to adapt to situations that are either local – this is not only true for the overall relief plan – or regional, according to which it must be able to provide an answer and not simply to be part of a classic procedure by closing down a particular area. I want to encourage you to go to the end of the reflection, especially on the current limitation of cutting. Currently, "only" 20% of the territory is potentially affected. However, if we remove some infrastructure such as ports, airports, hospitals, communication infrastructures – of which you are the first to talk – etc., we will have to expand the framework beyond the five or six areas planned, which I think makes sense. This means going beyond the current framework for emergency management. I invite you to go to the end of your reflection, especially in terms of solidarity, so that everyone feels concerned. It is important not to limit itself to the current areas. My reply was longer than my question, but it was to abound in the spirit of the flexibility sought by the minister. It is high time that we also adopted our system on this aspect.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic133x.u20	Mr President, Madam Minister, the press has echoed a note on the energy pact adopted by your government.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic133x.u21	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic133x.u22	A "vision"... I insist on the word "adopted" because I have a hesitation. The press said "adopted" but I feel like it's an act. You will tell me that in your answer. I wanted to ask you for a copy of this note, but in the meantime I was able to get it. It is called "Foundations for an Energy Vision". I wanted to know more about timing and methodology, but I also had this information. I will therefore allow myself a comment that you could react to. You work hard in intergovernmental, which is a good thing, but it cannot be enough. You are trying to involve the governments of the Regions, which I can support. There are two dimensions on which I would like to stress very strongly. Firstly, association at the same level, in the same place, in the same place of citizens and associations. This is going very well between governments. Perhaps you will correct things? I refer to the Netherlands where such a pact was concluded after two years of public debate. Secondly, we must involve parliaments because by working with governments, you do not have the broadest reflection necessary for the stability of such a "vision" – in the end the term belongs to you. Has this pact been adopted or has the government simply taken note of it?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic133x.u23	Mr President, Minister, in addition to Mr Nollet's question, I also have a number of questions and concerns about the state of the energy pact. Our group tabled a resolution on the methodology for this and a few weeks ago we had a discussion on this in this Chamber. On that occasion, we gave a helping hand, on a parliamentary level, to get to work on this dossier, but the majority elegantly refused to do so. In the meantime, we read that you have written a text of vision that could form a basis for an energy pact. The government would have looked at that text as well. What's the status? What is the formal nature of this text, which our group has indeed been able to see? The path towards the Energy Pact is just as important as the result. Like Mr Nollet, I would ask you to pay a great deal of attention to this process and to the involvement of stakeholders, such as consumer organisations, environmental movements, energy, employers and employees. So I am not just talking about a consultation committee on energy between different governments, but about a social exercise, so that a pact can be drawn up that is much stronger than just policy. Will you do that? If so, what is the timing? Will you initiate that process? In other words, will that happen at federal level or with regional entities? Finally, is it your ambition to define, to some extent, an energy mix or energy scenario in that energy pact? If so, what options are being taken in this respect? The text I have been able to see does not reassure me in this respect. Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic133x.u24	Minister, in Le Soir on March 14, you announced that the federal government had agreed on the basis of an energy pact for 2050. You have also announced that consultations will begin with the Regions. However, when you read your interview, we do not see in a tangible way what was decided by the federal government. I would therefore like to ask you a few questions. Can you tell us more about the content of the draft pact that was decided by the federal government? Can this document be distributed to the members of the commission?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic133x.u25	You can ask the putative president, who'll let you know.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic133x.u26	Thank you. Have any choices been made with respect to federal jurisdiction – nuclear and gas-fired power plants? What actors will be consulted during the drafting of this pact? In this respect, I believe it is essential to consult the social partners. Finally, what is the timetable for consultations with the Regions? Please excuse me again for my slight delay.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic133x.u27	But not at all: you have arrived at the right time, as always. I am responding to the three speakers with the permission of the Chair, to whom I have just cut off. I beg him to apologize.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic133x.u28	We know the good habits of the minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic133x.u29	Colleagues, the Council of Ministers on Friday 13 March approved a document entitled "Foundations for an Energy Vision" and to be shared with the Regions. This text gives impetus and direction to the work which will then lead to the conclusion of a pact. After giving you the formal answer I have prepared, I may be able to refine this element. The Pact should enable all actors in society to work on a thematic basis to identify a list of actions to be implemented in a pact so that a coherent and comprehensive policy can be achieved, implemented and rigorously followed at inter-federal level, according to a methodology accepted by all. This means exactly that the foundations that the government is planning for an energy policy are being discussed with regional governments. Besides, I contacted my counterparts the same day. The aim is to develop an inter-federal energy vision. Then, to respond to an obvious concern for me to consult as widely as possible, and you referred to the Dutch example, we will set up working groups. This will allow all actors in society to work on themes to identify a list of actions expressing the vision. It is the substance of an energy pact. All the players in society will participate through representation: the academic level, the associative level, the stakeholders, the entrepreneurs; as widely and as efficiently as possible, because I want to hasten slowly. I don't want it to drag for months. We need it. I also don't want to, I see what you might think – I say "you could", it's not sure – of an interference of the executive in this work. They will be led by working groups organized according to the usual President-Secretary formula, with people from the sectors and civil society. They will carry out this work on the basis of the inter-federal vision developed by the governments in charge of these matters in that country. The vision also proposes a working methodology as well as five proposals for topics to be considered. The Council of Ministers has also approved these "Foundations for an Energy Vision" to initiate discussions with the Regions with a view to enriching the vision of their observations and reflections, in accordance with the division of powers and with a view to organising an interministerial conference which will launch the work to lead to the elaboration of the inter-federal pact, hence the work on the energy pact as I have just explained to you. The working methodology will be agreed with the Regions. The five themes currently proposed by the federal government, which can be complemented by the Regions with their own requests and accents, are as follows: 1. the energy mix; 2. improving demand management as a contribution to security of supply; 3. the cost of energy policy, taxation and socio-economic impacts; 4. international cooperation in the field of energy; 5. mobility. This pact, i.e. the final document, must receive the widest possible support and support from all actors in society. The social partners and stakeholders will be involved in the work for each of these themes, and more if the Regions add or refine one or the other theme. Collaboration between the federal authorities and the Regions is essential in order to successfully conclude not only an inter-federal vision, but also a pact that declines this vision into concrete actions. We hope that this pact will be consistent with a long-term vision, since, I repeat, I would like to have a long-term perspective, by 2050, on sustainable development and European issues. Today, therefore, the priority is to finalize this document with my colleagues in the Regions. The timing of the work will be stopped with the latter, but I repeat, I would like to move forward effectively. I have a horizon that is the end of 2015. This may be too ambitious, so I will discuss it with my colleagues in the Regions, but then I will see, through the working groups, how things are moving forward. We will then eventually adjust the calendar but the goal is not to drag along along the way. Nor is it a question of bullying people and preventing them from thinking properly.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic133x.u30	Minister, thank you for that answer. I understand and share your thoughts on the timetable. You've set a horizon, but you have to discuss it with the others, which makes sense to me. On the other hand, I have a real problem with sequencing and what is concreted at each sequencing. I would like to explore this question in order to be sure that I have understood correctly. You say you don't have the vision yet, but many foundations. The federal government has therefore approved the foundations of a vision. Then you negotiate with the governments of the Regions to have a shared, common vision, which means – I suppose, but I want to check it out – that the Regions can question the foundations. Is this not to be taken or left?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic133x.u31	I have no problem, it's a discussion, a consultation, a collaboration. I believe, as I have already said in the press, that we all share the same objectives against which few people emerge: we all agree that we have efforts to make on the climate front; we all agree that a coherent and ambitious vision for an energy policy in this country is needed, and we all agree that the rise of renewables must be pursued and organised in a coherent manner. All these objectives can be shared, and I believe that on the basis of these objectives, we can go back and agree on how to achieve them. Since it is a text that is planned and needs to be enriched by the Regions, it is discussed. We talked about 'foundations' because this is the federal vision.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic133x.u32	As there are about 50 points, I understand that some of the foundations can be fundamentally challenged by the Regions. This can lead to a change in your foundation. Until then, I didn't have any problems with that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic133x.u33	We can also add foundations.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic133x.u34	We can add, we can delete, we can change them: I agree. The problem then lies. But maybe I misunderstood. We move from foundation to vision, once it's shared with the Regions. Then you say that we enter into the construction of a pact that is, I noted, built on the basis of vision.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic133x.u35	Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic133x.u36	This means that the stakeholders, civil society, are not in a position to question the vision or part of it. I have a real problem with that. You say what needs to be done and then you tell civil society "it is up to you to operationalize and translate this into concrete action." This is a fundamental divergence from what has happened elsewhere.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic133x.u37	Not necessarily anywhere else. Perhaps in the Netherlands, but I have not yet analysed the entire process that has been followed. Both on the pre-vision and on the list of concrete actions that set out this vision, there was a very broad consultation. I'll check it out. Secondly, I believe that in order to work effectively, we need to know what we want. You're not going to contradict me because you talked about it yourself. You asked me about it by saying, "Here, we'd like to know if, in the end, you're going to have a vision for a pact." I think we had this kind of more comprehensive discussion. Maybe it wasn't with you. I'm used to talking to you, so I think I'm still talking to you. Maybe it was with others that I exchanged on this plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic133x.u38	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic133x.u39	No, we will not have a full debate. I can stop pretty quickly. Thank you, Mrs. Lalieux. Indeed, these issues can be dealt with extensively. We started from the principle that the politicians and ministers in charge of this matter should explain what they expected, what they wanted, what they thought was right. We will then see how things are going to happen in the working groups and how they can evolve. It's not castrative. The policy, which will have to implement all the concrete actions that will at one time be worked out and finalized, is on the margins of the working groups' work. He projected what he expected from the work to be done by them. That seems entirely legitimate to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic133x.u40	I have a real difference of opinion on this point, but I am not surprised at all! It is also the way in which the government conducts social consultation: we decide first and listen to how we will operationalize it! This is true for the social partners and today you are making exactly the same mistake with the energy, environment and climate sectors. You say that the government has its vision, then no bar! It is good that there is a shared vision with the Regions, but it must not be called into question, including fundamentally! We therefore have a strong divergence of views on the methodology and I think that this could lead us to major problems or even to a blockage of your will for a pact, which is also necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic133x.u41	So we understand that not everyone has the same vision.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic133x.u42	We do not all need to have the same vision, but if we are to be able to build a pact, everyone must have the opportunity to express their vision. I believe that we are really facing a fundamental problem here. Almost everyone who has been working on energy in recent years supports the idea of an energy pact. Everyone says that we must have a plan that can stand the test of time, with more force than yet another plan that is wiped off the table after one or two years, or at best after a legislative period. You are totally opposed to the philosophy of an energy pact, Madam Secretary. You say you've done your homework and written a text. I read that text and he didn't convince me. You then want to enter into political negotiations with the Regions in order to reach a compromise. It is an illusion to think that it can still be broken open afterwards. You know our country well enough to know it doesn't work that way. After all these political stages a kind of ceremony will then be organised; a talk barracks with the sector, environmental and consumer organisations. I believe you have a choice to make. Either you make an energy vision with politics and then you call it an energy vision. Either you create an energy pact and then you adjust your procedure completely. For us, there is a fundamental problem here. We shall also look, Mr President, at what steps we can take. There was clear support for a path in Parliament. We will do everything we can to recalibrate the resolution as quickly as possible in our committee, because the path followed is completely wrong. Mrs Lalieux, ladies and gentlemen of the committee who are active at regional level and have the necessary leverage, must take action today. It seems to me that it really cannot be the intention of the regions to accept that way of working, let alone that the regions would accept that an energy vision should be drawn up, opening the gate for nuclear energy. I hope that, as a result of the Minister's alarming response, we will be able to join forces to draw up an energy pact, because apparently that is not the ambition of the current Minister for Energy. Even before the ink of the coalition agreement is dry, one of the most important objectives of the coalition agreement is thrown overboard.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic133x.u43	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. I hear there will be a negotiation with the Regions. I hope that it will not be done by e-mail as in the case of budgetary control. It is obviously much more complicated when the foundations are decided at one level and, in any case, the other levels only have to apply them. That is indeed the feeling we have here. It may be that the Regions, before complementing these foundations, themselves want to solicit their actors and intermediaries. In fact, there are regional actors because the policy is regionalised. They may wish to take the time to enrich these foundations according to what the players in the sector say. Minister, what then about timing if the Regions do not want to fit into your methodology logic? You said that the methodology had to be set with the Regions, while adding "the methodology will be that". I therefore do not see how the Regions could change the methodology you have prescribed here, except by adding a foundation. How will actors and experts be able to enter this methodology? It is not only the actors on the ground, there is also a series of experts. Your methodology is very strong. I do not know if it will be a text to be broken directly by the federal government before it even falls into the sector. You're telling me no, but...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic133x.u44	Mrs Lalieux, this probably won't reassure you, but I'm still trying. You'll question Mr. Furlan. He will answer you live and, like me, you will have the opportunity to hear from his mouth even what is happening to the work we are doing in this area. I started immediately after I obtained federal government approval on March 13. We are currently clearing the ground. All that is methodology, timing and procedure is defined with it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic133x.u45	Mr President, I should like to close by saying that we will return to this matter because it is the role of parliamentarians. As part of the process of defining an energy pact, Parliament, all the parliaments of that State, namely the regional parliaments, cannot be left out. We will certainly discuss it again with the President.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic133x.u46	Mr President, the European Commission seems to have overtaken the previous call for tenders. Minister, can you tell us more? What are the arguments given by the European Union? Is it true that the Commission fears that the mechanism will speed up the closure of existing plants? What was your reaction and what were your decisions in response to the Commission's position? What about the risk of having to pay compensation of up to €2.5 million if the contract is not awarded? What alternative did you initiate?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic133x.u47	Mr President, I will not be as categorical as Mr Nollet with regard to the European Commission's categorization of the invitation to tender. Indeed, the Minister indicated that she was in dialogue with the European Commission regarding the tender mechanism. I think it's less radical than a complete re-arrangement of the tender. My questions therefore stem from the definitive non-recalation. Madam Minister, can you give us details of the remarks made by the European Commission in relation to this call for tenders? This is total non-transparency, since we do not know anything about what the Commission has said. Do the elements raised by the European Commission allow you to justify the non- award of the contract? In L'Echo, you announce your intention to revise the tender. Can you tell us more about the proposals you're going to submit to the government?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic133x.u48	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the European Commission's Directorate-General for Competition did indeed deliver an opinion on 13 March 2015. In that opinion, it states the following. First, the notified measure is State aid affecting trade within the European Union. Secondly, the compatibility of this invitation to tender with the internal market and its legality, in particular with regard to its impact on competition, is questionable. Thirdly, it may be feared that the measure in question will actually speed up the closure of existing non-financially assisted plants (in Belgium). Fourth, the measure could unduly distort competition and trade, in particular by restricting the categories of capacity suppliers eligible for that measure. Fifth, the measure is critical in that it excludes other production technologies than gas and other production adequacy measures such as demand adjustment, storage and interconnection. On the basis of this opinion, I have examined whether corrective measures can be taken to respond to the Commission's criticisms. After discussion with experts from my firm and the administration, I concluded that it was best to stop the procedure. I submitted this proposal to the Council of Ministers, which approved it after deliberation. I have taken a deliberate ministerial decision in the Council of Ministers, which was published today. With respect to the compensation you are quoting, this is a maximum liability. In the present case, the Belgian State did not, in my view, commit any fault. It is a liability which, like any liability generally, can or should – but I do not see how – be operated on the basis of a fault which should be pinned in the head of the Belgian State, of damage which should be demonstrated and of a causal link between the fault and that damage. I would also point out that the specifications of the invitation to tender explicitly state that candidates are not entitled to any compensation for the costs incurred in participating in the invitation to tender.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic133x.u49	Madam Minister, I am at least surprised, but I will take the time to analyse the texts published in the Belgian Monitor. I thought we were going to receive the elements. In the absence of these, it will be difficult for me to reply in the course of the sitting.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic133x.u50	Personally, I would like to give the text!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic133x.u51	Maybe through the secretariat?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic133x.u52	In my opinion, the text is already available, but it can be consulted via the secretariat or online.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic133x.u53	With the publication of the order, you have definitively terminated the call for tenders and you will launch a new call for tenders. We will examine the texts of the decree before reacting.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic133x.u54	It would be better to come back to me and ask more questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic133x.u55	Minister, I have already asked you a number of questions on this issue, following the relevant reflection of the regulator who denounced the fact that producers who have doubts about the restart of their unit announce closures and reserve the right to waive them at any time. In order to avoid this pitfall, I was already questioning you on 18 November 2014 and you were saying that a reflection on a system to support existing capabilities was under way in order to limit the number of unit closures and to ensure the country's supply capacity. Subsequently, you told me that you had instructed the Directorate-General for Energy to prepare a study on the various options for supporting existing production capacities, including through capacity mechanisms or capacity markets. You also announced that a study would be commissioned by an external consultant to assess the advantages and disadvantages of the various options in this area. An impact assessment will also have to be carried out, you said. On 6 January 2015, I asked you to give me more information on the progress of this reflection and on the additional requirements that will be put forward in order to avoid such a situation, but you replied that you were not yet in a position to give me these elements. We agreed that I would come back to you in mid-February to obtain all the conclusions of these studies and the follow-up you have given to them. On this occasion, you told me that the reflection was still under way and that the CREG was responsible for sending you its vision by the end of March. You also announced that a proposal for a form of support to maintain the production stock until at least 2025 would shortly be submitted to the Council of Ministers for an opinion. Minister, we have been discussing this issue since you took office. It's easy time to land because some people enjoy imagining a new winter under stress, which is neither your case nor mine. What is the vision and proposals that CREG has put to you? What form of support did you put on the government table? What is your schedule of work in this area?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic133x.u56	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the reflection on a system of support for existing capacities is still ongoing, both within the administration and within the CREG – the latter's vision in this area is expected. I'm telling you right away that she promised me by the end of this month. But this has been postponed. I'm not complaining, because the CREG doesn't just have to do it. So it'll be April 15th. In particular, at the hearing on 25 March, CREG indicated that it had advanced and that the study should be completed by mid-April. On that occasion, she explained that she had conducted a survey of the stakeholders and was analysing their responses. She reported some contacts she had had with Elia, the European Commission and the SPF in this regard. I invite you to review the hearing reports. I imagine all this was clarified on 25 March. My main concern is to avoid closures of existing units and to provide a stable legal framework for investors. The so-called market for the remuneration of energy supplied so far has shown its inability to attract the investments necessary to manage a coherent production stock to ensure the balance between supply and demand. I continue to work on examining various possible avenues. In particular, we are studying the systems developed in neighbouring countries, in particular the ways in which capacity is paid in France and the United Kingdom. When I finally have the CREG report, I will of course be able to take note of its conclusions. At that time, I will be able, with my administration, to propose the best options. Any mechanism that would be retained will have to be included in the European guidelines - we have just mentioned enough in the context of the call for tenders - in terms of State aid, which imposes several constraints that were revised in June 2014. It will also be important to prevent efficient power plants from becoming out of the market in order to participate in the strategic reserve, which remains a transitional solution for me. As I have already pointed out, my more general thinking is to secure the maintenance in the production fleet, at least until 2025, of several recent gas power plants and to guarantee price stability for residential and industrial consumers. I shall shortly be submitting proposals to that effect. Don't worry, I don't intend to hover; I'll end up landing in a while.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic133x.u57	That's clear.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic133x.u58	Madam Minister, I hear very well, and I will in due course reread the reports of the hearings to which you refer. Beyond that, on your project, there is still quite a great urgency. The figures are known: 1,600 megawatts are in balance for 2015. If we don't find it, and if you don't set up a mechanism early enough, it'll increase the pressure. On the other hand, if the mechanism is put in place, the desire to decrease by 1,600 megawatts can very quickly be halted. I will judge your ability to take care of the number of plants that have already been closed before the device is put in place.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic133x.u59	[[...]] Thank you for having the question already, I hope you also have a good answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic133x.u60	You're amazing. There has always been a value judgment. An answer is an answer. If you think it's not good, it's your business.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic133x.u61	That's not entirely true. A government isn't a good government either. I have already asked you about the legal guidance in drawing up the ten-year extension of Tihange 1 and the associated convention. You replied to me that the law firm Willkie Farr & Gallagher was hired for this, with a cost of EUR 13 500. At present, you are engaged in similar negotiations on the extension of the lifespan of Objective 1 and Objective 2. I have a few questions about that, Madam Secretary. Does the federal government currently enjoy legal support for the drafting of the bill and the negotiations on the new convention? If so, who will assist it? What is the cost of this assignment? What budget line is the legal advice registered on? Was that also true for Tihange 1's legal advice? Can Parliament have the legal opinion on Tihange 1 of the above mentioned law firm?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic133x.u62	First of all, I would like to correct immediately the micmac species that I hear in the presentation of this question. I understand that it is difficult to fall back on your feet because you do not have the text in front of you and given all the questions you have to ask in multiple commissions, but it is not this government that has sought legal advice from the Willkie Farr & Gallagher Law Office. It's the previous government. I will therefore answer your questions in three points. First, so far, our government and my firm have not used the services of external lawyers. Second point: as indicated in reply to your oral question No 1086 already asked on 5 January 2015, to which I have already replied, the price of legal aid for the lawyer's office which was requested by my predecessor and which was covered by the budget of the SPF Economy, SMEs, Middle Classes and Energy, is 13,500 euros. Thirdly, I have no information on an opinion given to the cabinet of the then Secretary of State for Energy. I have already replied to you on 5 January 2015 on this subject: the federal government of the time, represented by its Prime Minister and Secretary of State for Energy, led the negotiations. If an opinion has been given to them, I do not have it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic133x.u63	Madam Minister, I have made it very clear that this is indeed an opinion that your predecessor has hired. I have now asked you which budget line it was registered in. You didn't answer that. My second question is therefore which budget line included the legal advice on Tihange 1.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic133x.u64	If you want, I'll go get the budget line. I'll send this to you by email if you really go to the last carat. I just told you that it was taken over, at the time, by the budget of the Federal Public Service Economy, Middle Classes, Energy. I will go to the documents to be pleasant to you and find the amount of 13,500 euros which I have already mentioned to you in your question and in my answer of 5 January 2015.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic133x.u65	Madam Minister, I am asking because it is important to know which budget line is involved. After all, there is a relationship with the provision of legal advice. You say this is a legal advice on the budget line of the FPS Economy. In that respect, however, I do not understand the last element of your reply, where you say that you do not have that legal advice. If the budget is made available within the administration, then the legal advice must also be available. In that case, you should also be able to deliver it to us.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic133x.u66	No. Well, if you can tell me that my department received the bill. Point on the line.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic133x.u67	So the FPS Economy and you don't have the legal advice?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic133x.u68	That's exactly right.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic133x.u69	That seems to me to be a very strange way of working. The federal state is funding a legal opinion on the negotiation of a convention. That legal advice is paid for, but it's gone. Since you will still have to conduct similar negotiations, it seems logical to me that you should seek that legal advice in order to keep it up to date. I'll get back to you on that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic133x.u70	Minister, the European Union is the world's largest energy importer. This dependency situation is of course of concern to the EU, even more recently since the outbreak of the conflict in Ukraine. With a view to reducing Europe's energy dependence in the long term, on Thursday 19 March the European Council endorsed the creation of an Energy Union. The aim of this Union is to provide citizens and businesses with safe, affordable and climate-friendly energy. It is structured around five strands: security of supply, the internal energy market, energy efficiency, emission reduction and energy research and innovation. For the efficient functioning of the internal market, emphasis will be placed on infrastructure projects for electricity and gas and on strengthening interconnections between the different Member States. These actions pursue the objective of making the European energy market more integrated, competitive and sustainable. EU legislation in this area will also be better implemented and further strengthened. Better transparency for the gas market is also on the agenda. In order to be able to keep up with developments in the coming years, I would like, Madam Minister, to know the next meetings and stages of the Energy Union process at the calendar level. At the core, Donald Tusk's objective was to create a European body to buy gas. It seems, however, that European leaders have agreed on a proactive system. Will this Energy Union ultimately involve the transfer of certain national competences to the European level? What is Belgium's position on this point? What means of control are envisaged to ensure this transparency in the gas market?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic133x.u71	Mr Friart, thank you for your pertinent question, which allows me to answer these questions in a large way. With regard to the timetable, on 20 March the Latvian Presidency proposed to the Member States a draft conclusion of action based on two themes: consumer empowerment and the stimulation of investment as a guide for future action. This project will be the subject of a negotiation process, which started in the Energy Working Group and then in Coreper I. This process will culminate in the Energy Council, which will be held on 8 June in Luxembourg. The Commission communication on "Strategic framework for an Energy Union", published on 25 February, was accompanied by a plan listing the 15 initiatives advocated by the Commission, including the proposal for a new organisation of the electricity market in 2015. Guidelines on regional approaches to market integration through Benelux and the Pentalateral Energy Forum, for example, a new renewable energy package in 2016-17. Any initiatives that will be developed with a timetable for their development and implementation and an explicit division of responsibility for each body. The Commission considers these initiatives to be mutually linked and in line with the European Union's ambition, which it believes is necessary to transform the European energy system. It should also be stressed that the last European Council of 19 and 20 March adopted the conclusions on the Energy Union thus confirming the interdependence of the five dimensions of this Energy Union. These are the famous five pillars. Mr Tusk, then Prime Minister of Poland, launched the idea of the Energy Union in response to the Russian-Ukrainian crisis. The proposal you are quoting has never been the basis of this concept and the scope of the comments on this subject has diminished over time. This is evidenced in particular by the explicit mention of the possibilities of voluntary mechanisms for aggregation of demand. These must be carried out in full compliance with WTO and EU competition rules. All you have to do is look at the conclusions of the European Council of 19 and 20 March 2015. However, the proposal still needs to be further developed. The first reactions of the Member States were very much shared. They varied from very positive to very negative. We will have to wait until we see how the proposal will evolve. This issue is currently under consideration in the Commission in terms of the diversification of gas supply. Belgium has not yet taken an official position on this matter. The last element of your question concerned the means of control envisaged to ensure this transparency in the gas market. In the future, the European Commission wishes to be informed at an early stage about the negotiations for the conclusion of intergovernmental agreements, so that they can be ensured that they are in line with European law and the European Union's energy security provisions. Therefore, in 2016, the Commission will once again evaluate intergovernmental agreements and will propose options to ensure that, in negotiations with third countries, the European Union will speak with one voice. As such, it will develop contractual and standardized clauses. In the context of the assessment of the Regulation to ensure security of supply, the Commission will also propose to ensure the transparency of commercial contracts for the supply of gas that could have an impact on the security of supply of the European Union. In this regard, it will respect the confidentiality of sensitive commercial information.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic133x.u72	Thank you for this very detailed answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic133x.u73	Mr. President, Minister, the Professional Institute of Real Estate Agents (IPI), a body governed by public law, is essentially responsible for verifying access to the profession of real estate agent and the ethical control of real estate agents. As a monitoring body, the IPI carries out three main tasks: to establish and maintain the list of trainees and the list of holders by deciding on applications for registration, after verifying that the candidate meets all the conditions laid down; to ensure compliance with the rules governing access to the profession of real estate agent, in particular by prosecuting persons illegally practising the profession before the courts; to monitor compliance by real estate agents with the rules of ethics governing the profession (in case of non-compliance, the offender is subject to disciplinary sanctions). The IPI can only act in this area through its executive chambers, in which the legal assessors sit. In the course of 2012, your predecessor, Ms.Laruelle, implemented a new IPI reform, particularly with regard to disciplinary follow-up. The Institute had made the following commitments as early as 2012 following the relevant reform initiated by former Minister Laruelle: to create a collective coverage "indelicaciousness" (as is done for lawyers and their professional failures); to set up a monitoring and screening service for indelible trustees; and to set up a rapid information mechanism. Unfortunately, this reform has not had the desired effect, in any case in different cases. Thus, as part of a file whose name I will keep here in committee but which I communicated to you in my written question (non-reimbursement of lease bonds and advance payments on real estate sales), several complaints were filed between December 2011 and September 2013 before the case was brought before the court on December 17, 2013. The default of the company in question will occur in early January 2014, but the company will continue to operate until mid-July 2014. This example is not the only one and the NSOs, representing owners in particular, continue to denounce to the IPI the situations that are transmitted to them so that the latter can become part of a more protective approach for owners and co-owners. This role should normally rest with the IPI, the body responsible for this type of control. Minister, why is the IPI still powerless in the face of the indelicacy denounced in the head of some trustees? Why has the reform announced by your predecessor not yet been fully implemented by the IPI? Why do the victims of some trustees always have to turn to owner protection associations rather than to the IPI to be defended and heard? When addressing the IPI, the answers are missing or arrive only very late. When will a real control system be put in place within the IPI to deal with indelicate trustees? What control does the IPI exercise over the functioning of the disciplinary chambers?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic133x.u74	Mr President, Mr Maingain, before answering your first question, it seems to me to be useful to recall, as I indicated last October in response to a parliamentary question, that in the first half of last year the IPI's executive and appeal chambers had a significant amount of time, in total 44 cancellations, 28 suspensions, 10 reprimands, 3 warnings and 2 acquittals, for a profession with a total of approximately 9,200 holders. The adjective "imputed" used in your question therefore seems to me to have to be, if I am not mistaken, largely nuanced. In particular, your first question concerns the difficulty that the IPI would have in punishing the indelicates of certain trustees and, above all, in doing so within a time frame that would allow them to be more effectively and quickly out of order to harm other condominiums under their management. I must tell you in fact that the IPI is encountering, and I have observed, some difficulties in this regard. It should be noted, however, that this difficulty, which sometimes has harmful consequences for injured co-owners or other potentially injured co-owners, is the undesirable but inherent effect of a choice of company to which we all subscribe. This choice of society is based on respect for the principles of Article 6 of the European Convention on Human Rights, according to which any person accused of an offence or suspected of being committed is presumed innocent until his or her guilt has been legally established. In concrete terms, the denunciation of a possible indelicacy, even supported by a number of arguments and supported by all good faith, cannot, on its own, establish the guilt of a trustee and, therefore, give rise to an immediate suspension of authority, even as a conservatory measure. However, the competent disciplinary court within the IPI, or more broadly the judge of the Judicial Order, must consider, after hearing the person prosecuted, after having examined the case, that his or her conduct is sensitive and constitutes a deontological misconduct or even an offence. However, in order to limit this difficulty once again by improving the continuity of service of the IPI disciplinary courts and thus, without calling into question the presumption of innocence, it seems to me important to shorten the time limits for the investigation and decision of the courts. In this regard, I have asked my administration to prepare a regulatory amendment which, in particular, will require that a second alternate chair be appointed for each of the IPI's executive and appeal chambers. The reform announced by my predecessor has been implemented by the IPI as far as it is concerned. Thus, a "indelicacious" collective insurance has been subscribed by the IPI since 2014 and the professional RC insurance premium of each IPI member will be included in its contribution to be paid to it, starting at the beginning of next year. The injured persons, even if of course this only concerns the restoration of damage, now have the guarantee that their damage will be paid for in fine by an insurance company, in any case in its material dimension. In addition, an expert in the profession of trustee has been hired for more than a year to assist the legal assessor in the prosecution of IPI trustees suspected of unfairness and a screening service for trustees illegally practising the profession does exist. Thus, with regard to the rapid information mechanism, the executive and appeal chambers may issue the disciplinary sentence against a trustee member of the IPI and, therefore, provide better information to all the co-owners he knows as clients or would approach in the course of his activity. In the context of the information of the co-owners, it should be added that with my colleagues in the Justice and the Economy, we will shortly be implementing articles 577-8, § 2, 1° of the Civil Code, which involve the adoption of a royal decree laying down the procedure for the registration of the trustee in the Banque-Carrefour des Entreprises, in the interests of transparency which you mention. This registration will allow the co-owner to benefit from information about his trustee, whether or not he is a member of the IPI and whether or not he is a professional. On the other hand, I would like to inform you, in connection with the first question, that the associations of co-owners, not holding any part of the public authority, are not obliged to respect the principle of presumption of innocence in the same way as the IPI. But the IPI, like the Belgian State, is of course obliged to do so as organs of a State governed by the rule of law subject to democratic and judicial control, while owners and their associations are not subject to it in the same way, even though, regardless of this legal constraint, this principle of presumption of innocence must be respected. How? For example, by allowing a trustee who would have been unfairly accused of a number of elements of misconduct to redeem himself if the charges against him were communicated to the country as a whole, to his clientele and to his potential clientele. As far as your second question is concerned, I would like to refer to the various elements that I have just developed. However, I am listening to any suggestions that you or colleagues in Parliament would like to convey to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic133x.u75	Minister, thank you for your answer. Of course, disciplinary proceedings must be conducted in accordance with the principles of law relating to the rights of the defence; that goes without saying. But what was at issue was the procedural delays and even the initiation of disciplinary proceedings, i.e. between the moment when the facts are reported and the time when the disciplinary proceedings are instituted, the disciplinary chambers take an abnormally long time to investigate the cases. I am still thinking of a 2009 file in which five hundred co-owners had filed a complaint. It cannot be said that these are denunciations introduced lightly. The alleged damage amounted to €550,000 for acts of misappropriation, which were subsequently established. However, it was not until 2011 that the case arose as a result of the accumulation of significant new complaints brought against the same company or trustee. The IPI never explained the shortcomings of the assessor in charge of this file. More serious in my view: he was even renewed in his term of office. I hear that, in your answer, you express a will in my sense. There is an obligation to check whether the procedures for investigating complaints are sufficiently diligent by the IPI and, above all, since it does not play a direct role by the executive chambers, which are internal judicial bodies. There may be a need to establish an organ to monitor the way these chambers work. That's the suggestion I'm putting before you, minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic133x.u76	Minister, many citizens are eager to set up their own business, an approach that is not always easy. Business counters, which were an excellent initiative of your predecessor, offer to accompany these people in their first steps necessary to launch their company. In this context, these windows are subject to a specification drawn up by the SPF Économie, which dates from March 2014, which imposes obligations on them to offer a quality service and to have the desire to render service in an efficient and operational manner to the candidates entrepreneurs. In particular, they are bound by an obligation to inform, advise and support the setting-up of a company, which requires, inter alia, the proper assessment of the candidate's financial situation and the feasibility of his or her professional activity. It is my responsibility that in practice these obligations are not always met, putting people who use these windows in serious financial difficulties, because of unnecessary costs that could have been avoided if the feasibility review of the activity had been carried out in a timely manner. However, your government agreement underlines the importance of SMEs to our economy, which is why entrepreneurs who take risks deserve, and I quote your agreement, "respect and esteem" and "must be encouraged". Minister, can he let me know what kind of recourse is available to entrepreneurs who have obviously been misguided by a business window? I imagine some of them, but I would like to check that there are more administrative than jurisdictional remedies, which take an unusually long time in our country. Can he inform me whether he has already made use of the possibility conferred by Article XV.65 § 1 of the Code of Economic Law, which provides that "in the event of a recidivism or a competition for breaches (...), the supervisory department may propose the suspension or withdrawal of the authorisation of the business window to the Minister who has the Middle Classes in his powers"; and whether this March 2014 specification will be updated? What will be proposed in the SME plan announced by the government agreement but which you have been able to detail more recently in terms of support for start-ups? What also'second chance' devices for bankrupt entrepreneurs who want to re-enter?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic133x.u77	Mr Maingain, the compulsory tasks of business outlets are listed in Article III.59 § 1 of the Code of Economic Law. Information, advice and support for setting up a company involve assessing the financial situation of the person and the feasibility of this professional activity, but this is not included in the mandatory tasks listed for business counters. Business counters providing this type of services do so under Article III.59(2), which provides that the business counter may provide additional advisory and support services to enterprises, except those services which are reserved exclusively by law for certain liberal, intellectual and service professions in the economic sector. If an undertaking is not satisfied with these advisory and support services provided by an enterprise window which would have accepted the task of assessing its financial situation and of the feasibility of its professional activity, the common contractual law will apply. The Federal Ombudsman is competent to examine complaints, if any, brought by applicants, citizens about acts or the operation of federal administrative authorities. However, recourse to its intervention does not appear to be possible in the present case, which falls more within the sphere of private law. To date, the procedure provided for in article XV.65 of the Code of Economic Law has never been used against an approved window. The terms of reference for business counters were updated very recently in March 2014 as part of the procedure currently being renewed for the approval of these counters. There are no other updates that are being considered to date. Moreover, as far as your more cross-cutting question is concerned, it is indeed in the context of the adoption of the SME plan by the government on 27 February. This plan proposes 40 measures to support businesses, including start-ups. Among these proposals for useful measures, particularly for start-ups, I would like to highlight the proposal to promote or promote alternative financing for SMEs, this famous crowdfunding, which, moreover, came to fruition during our debates on fiscal adjustment this weekend. We know how difficult it is for start-ups to get financing. In this regard, we also plan to evaluate the law related to the financing of enterprises in connection with the banking sector. Moreover, the implementation of this crowdfunding will be carried out in the context of wide-ranging consultations, in particular with the FSMA: evaluation of existing regulations on public tenders, mediation missions, etc. Above all, we are committed to ensuring that the risks to individuals inherent in this type of investment are marked and controlled at best. I am also studying the possibility of extending professional support for a number of projects launched. Finally, with regard to second chance entrepreneurship, we know that too often stigmatization of the one who stumbles is a matter of opinion or belief, which is why we want to help those who wish to re-start or re-start, especially after bankruptcy or economic cessation for forced external reasons, and to be able to do so in better conditions. These proposals therefore include insurance for economic cessation for external reasons, which will allow a number of entrepreneurs not to have to go to bankruptcy and thus to the image that it conveys on a sustainable basis, not to mention the financial and legal consequences. We also intend to adapt the legal and regulatory provisions related to bankruptcies. Together with my government colleagues, we will work to better align the bankruptcy law of August 8, 1997, with that of business continuity with respect to the surety and excusability of the bankrupt, not to mention the collective settlement of debts.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic133x.u78	Minister, I will come back with other questions on the implementation of your SME plan, which includes some very interesting measures, indeed. But I come back to my main question, which was the optional mission of approved business outlets in terms of financial feasibility advice for a professional activity project. It is obvious that the law – I would point out that until now, it is only an optional mission that does not necessarily entail obligations related to a mission approved in the context of recognition by the SPF Economy – may be a problem. Because it is this aspect that is the most decisive in the council that is often given to the candidate entrepreneur. That the only common law is applicable to this part of the mission raises a problem of confidence of the candidate entrepreneur in the approved organisation. It is addressed to the accredited body convinced that it has, there, a public service mission that will be carried out. But, in part, it is not part of the public service mission. That is why there is a difficulty. That is why I suggested a revision of the terms of reference and, perhaps, of the legal framework. I will then take the initiative to introduce a bill to that effect.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic133x.u79	Mr President, Minister, yesterday I tabled a question on the start-ups. Although that question was put in time, I heard today that she was referred to Minister De Croo. This is a pity since start-ups are certainly not just about digitisation, but mainly about employment, social contributions, wage cuts, crowdfunding and investment support. Above all, start-ups are small start-ups, small SMEs. So it is certainly something that should be dealt with in the Committee on Industry. I do not believe that Minister De Croo is competent for the matters I have listed here, except for the digital. In De Tijd, moreover, it was said that Minister Borsus may put his hat on his hat in connection with the whole issue of start-up. That's what I was gonna say. I now turn to my question regarding the SME plan. Minister, entrepreneurs are people who take risks to create added value, prosperity and well-being, not only for themselves but also for others. Entrepreneurs deserve respect and appreciation for that. SMEs are the backbone of our economy. They are often family companies that are strongly anchored locally and thus provide jobs in their own region. Between 2002 and 2010, 87% of new jobs were created by SMEs. In 2014, employment in SMEs in Limburg grew by 3%. However, we must not be blinded by these welcome figures, because of course they also include companies and SMEs who cannot maintain themselves and who, unfortunately, have to put down the books or let people get rid of them. SMEs need a policy of lower labour costs and a reduction in costs in order to create even more jobs. Specific policies are therefore needed to support the competitiveness of SMEs. To achieve all these objectives, the government will develop an SME plan. It was therefore important that this plan be implemented as soon as possible. It is now ready and we could already see it. We've had a bit of a look at it. We are pleased that it was approved by the Council of Ministers. Minister, could you give a brief explanation of the measures contained in the SME plan? What budget is foreseen to implement this plan? What deadline do you propose to implement the SME plan? Was there consultation with the Länder to coordinate certain measures? I am thinking, for example, of the target groups policy and the disturbed zones in Flanders. Is further consultation with the social partners needed to further develop the SME plan?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic133x.u80	Mr President, first of all I would like to point out that many similar questions have already been raised at a previous committee meeting, but I repeat that I remain at the disposal of the committee for every in-depth examination of the SME plan. The SME plan revolves around six axes: first, competitiveness, taxation and the fight against social dumping; second, the improvement of social status and the promotion of entrepreneurship; third, access to finance, bankruptcy and second chance entrepreneurship; fourth, administrative simplification; fifth, internationalisation; sixth, multisectoral measures. It currently contains 40 measures, but it is not a defined programme. The plan can be complemented by new measures. A quarterly reporting to the Council of Ministers is planned. Numerous measures in the plan do not cause any expense. These measures, which have no budgetary impact, will therefore be able to be implemented quickly. These are measures of a purely regulatory nature. In this context, I am thinking, among other things, of the proposal No. 4 to modernise labour law, proposal No. 6 to improve the legibility of tax and parafiscal legislation, 7 on the approximation of tax controls and the strengthening of mutual trust, proposal No. 10 in order to make the operative part of the employers' group more attractive, the proposal No. 20 on the reform of the summary procedure for ordering payment, proposal No. 21 on the evaluation of the relationship between banks and undertakings, proposal No. 26 to support second-chance entrepreneurship, proposal No. 27 to extend electronic invoicing, proposal No. 30 to strengthen the SME test, proposal No. 31 to improve access to public procurement, proposal No. 37 to improve the legal framework for the practice of the liberal professions, proposal No. 38 on the reform of the regulatory framework for the organization of small and medium-sized enterprises and proposal No. 39 to the valorisation of the crafts. More generally, the plan will be implemented with respect for administrative and budgetary control formalities. The time needed to implement these proposals will vary from measure to measure. Some will take over the entire legislature, while others can be realised in the near future. As I said, about a quarter of these measures will be implemented by the end of 2015. The plan will be implemented with respect for our federal model and for the division of powers between the federal government and the federated entities. I have not yet met the Regions in this respect, but I will do so on a case-by-case basis, taking into account the progress of the measures. As with the previous question, I will answer that this case will be done on a case-by-case basis, based on needs. There is no consultation on the full plan, but action will be decided by measure, if necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic133x.u81	Thank you, Minister, for your clear answer. I am glad that, beyond the 40 measures, there may be additional possibilities. A quarterly report seems very good to me to follow things up. I am also pleased that a large number of measures can be implemented quickly. I also think that this government wants and will take the much-needed measures to give oxygen to our SMEs and our companies.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic133x.u82	Mrs Vanheste is not here and her question No. 3197 is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic133x.u83	Minister, it has been quiet for a while around the avian flu, but recently a new fireplace was found on a company in the Netherlands. This concerns the mild H7 variant. At the end of last year, the Netherlands was hit four times by the highly pathogenic H8 variant. As a result of the previous outbreaks in the Netherlands and Germany, you decided to introduce the containment obligation for poultry throughout Belgium from the end of November until 20 February 2015. In addition, precautionary measures were applied to persons and vehicles which could cause contamination, because they had entered contaminated areas or had come into contact with animals from those areas. That was a good reaction, as in that variant there is a risk of mutation into a highly contagious and deadly variant for chickens. We have to stay alert. We must also protect and reassure farms and their managers. You indicated last year that the Federal Food Chain Safety Agency has an operational emergency plan to combat avian influenza and that you had consulted the Regions and the professional organisations concerned. According to the latest reports, you have no longer extended the period of increased risk for avian influenza, because you believe there is no threat for the time being. You don't think that means the threat of avian flu is completely out of the question. Minister, have you heard of a potential threat of avian influenza in Belgian poultry? Are you in favour of taking similar precautions to protect farms in the event of a new outbreak?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic133x.u84	Mrs Gantois, since the beginning of 2015, we have seen a continuous decline in the number of outbreaks of avian influenza. Although it is still too early to talk about a normal avian flu situation and the risk of introduction into poultry from wild birds is still higher than in normal circumstances, we can consider that the risk has fallen sufficiently, so that the period of increased risk has ended. However, it should be borne in mind that avian influenza will always pose a potential threat to poultry farms in Europe and, therefore, to Belgium, in particular because wild birds, both migratory birds and stand birds, are a reservoir of a large number of viruses of avian influenza. Measures continue to apply in Belgium, even though there are no outbreaks of avian influenza in neighbouring countries. This concerns biosecurity measures to protect poultry holdings and other captive birds from the introduction of avian influenza. They are more important in the so-called sensitive areas. The BFSA has recently asked its scientific committee to assess whether the measures are still adapted to the current epidemiological context. That advice is expected for the summer. Caution continues to be advisable: for individuals, there are veterinary examinations and analyses in cases of mortality and for professionals there are, in addition to those measures, checks on the correct application of biosafety rules. More detailed information can also easily be found on the website of the BFSA.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic133x.u85	Minister, it is true that the number of outbreaks and cases of wild birds has decreased. The risk remains, however, of course. It is very important that we remind our poultry farmers and veterinarians that they take every signal very seriously and also report it to the Federal Agency for the Safety of the Food Chain. We must not lose sight of the fact that, given the outbreak in the Netherlands, the danger really is around the corner. I also look forward to the assessment by the Federal Agency for the Safety of the Food Chain of the situation of the measures taken. Are they sufficiently adapted to the current situation? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic133x.u86	Minister, the government is currently developing the accompanying measures within the Catering Plan, as described in the Government Agreement. In addition to these accompanying measures, the Government has also undertaken to sit with the sectors concerned in order to explore ways to increase transparency in the price formation of brewery contracts and to clarify the specific role of the supplier, the landlord or the financier, with the view not to prevent the entrepreneur's freedom to offer products. In other words, we are examining the extent of the freedom of our operators in the hospitality sector after entering into such contracts. Minister, has there already been a meeting with the sectors concerned to discuss these problems? If so, who was invited, what was discussed and what are the conclusions? If not, when do you intend to sit around the table with the sectors concerned? When will you come up with a solution regarding these contracts? What solution do you have in mind?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic133x.u87	Mr Janssen, as regards your first question, I can tell you that no specific meeting was held with the operators in the catering sector on the brewery contracts. My cabinet and I have received all the professional federations represented in the Supreme Council for Self-employed and SMEs, and therefore also the professional federation of the catering sector, to listen to their expectations. At the end of these meetings, it emerged that the problem of brewery contracts is a problem which needs to be addressed in a very nuanced manner. Although these brewery contracts create a dependence between the catering industry and its brewers, they are not always excessive and sometimes allow the catering industry to benefit from certain advantages such as a well-off alternative source of finance. This is not insignificant if we look at the difficulties that the catering industry has to face in financing itself with the banks. The improvement of the regulatory framework of these contracts will therefore have to be studied, and there will be a need for in-depth consultation to ensure that the remedy is no worse than the disease. For the rest, any improvement must be compatible with the provisions of European law. As far as your third question is concerned, this problem is, as you say, covered by the Catering Plan. So how we will fulfil the commitment we have entered into in the coalition agreement will be discussed with my fellow Members. As far as your fourth question is concerned, given what I have just explained, I cannot tell you at what time a solution to this problem will be presented. However, it is not unreasonable to think that this will be before 2016. As far as your fifth and final question is concerned, I think it would be premature for me to comment on this issue until the sectors have been consulted for the purposes of the Catering Plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic133x.u88	Thank you, Minister, for your answers. Entrepreneurs can indeed have certain advantages in such contracts, but sometimes there are disadvantages. It is not possible for such contracts to become strangled contracts which prevent entrepreneurs from exercising profitable entrepreneurship. I look forward to the measures that will be taken. As you said, you'll still be sitting around the table with the sector. Thank you for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic133x.u89	Minister, you attended the European Council of Agriculture and Fisheries on 16 March, and you raised a number of issues, including a problem within the dairy sector, which will be in a completely new situation from tomorrow. As of tomorrow, milk deliveries will be free again. The quota period, which lasted 30 years, is over. There will be consequences. You said that the European Milk Price Observatory could not prevent crises, which is also so much so, but that it would provide useful information. You asked if the Price Observatory could go further in its operation by analysing production costs and margins. That could then be the reference that determines the activation of our market control measures. You have therefore asked the Commission, firstly, to extend the measurement of the Price Observatory to the cost of production. Secondly, you ask that the methods for measuring reference production costs be determined by product and geographical area in order to determine the profit margins that are really necessary for our companies to survive. Thirdly, there should be a reflection exercise on mechanisms that allow for the setting of crisis thresholds and then link prevention and intervention measures to those thresholds. How were your questions received by the European Agriculture Council? Did you already receive a specific answer to your questions? How will you use the results of these measurements to create a better and more stable price setting for the milk sector and to prevent crises?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic133x.u90	Mr President, Mrs Gantois, according to the European Commission, the situation has changed considerably since 1984 when stocks were substantial. The surplus butter mountains and milk lakes had to be placed on the market again in the years after, thus reducing the milk price. The dairy sector is now much more market-oriented, which translates into the fact that our producers are generally prepared for the end of quotas. At least that is the view of the European Commission, even though this end is a source of uncertainty and therefore of fear, although we are announcing an increase in milk consumption at world level. Agriculture Commissioner Phil Hogan gave a brief overview of the existing aid possibilities, such as the milk package, which allows producers to group and collectively negotiate their contracts with dairy companies, the storage of milk powder and the possibility of paying the superlevy for the last year of quotas in three years. The Commissioner pointed out that the Price Observatory followed the trend of prices and stock variations very closely. Commissioner Phil Hogan is convinced that liberalisation will benefit producers but admits that prices are too volatile today. The latest market developments show a cautious improvement in prices at European level. However, between December 2014 and January 2015, Belgium established a 6% reduction in the milk price. It is therefore too early today to draw conclusions. The discussion between Member States has shown a clear division between those delegations which support the Commission's vision and do not want any additional measures. Germany, Ireland, Sweden, Finland, the Netherlands and Denmark on the one hand, and, on the other hand, the southern and eastern Member States on the other, France, Italy and so on, who would like to see more intervention from the Commission to ensure a soft landing. However, there was a broad consensus among Member States on a reform of the Prize Observatory. In particular, Belgium has requested that the European Price Observatory integrate production costs and data by region and geographical area in a more detailed way. Furthermore, some countries with mountainous areas have requested special attention for milk producers, taking into account their specific geographical area. Finally, some delegations expressed the desire to identify the geographical origin of their production through labelling. Following the presentations by the European Agriculture Ministers, the European Commission has stressed the need for the reform of the Prize Observatory and that, in this respect, the conclusions of an evaluation of the Prize Observatory will be presented in the coming weeks. The Latvian Presidency decided to take note of the information provided by the European Commission and of the statements made by the Member States.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic133x.u91	Mr President, Minister, if I understand correctly, Europe also sees the need for the reform of the Prize Observatory or at least the extension of its tasks. We cannot at all assess the consequences of the release of the quota. Will we produce new butter mountains and milk lakes? What will that do with the price? Indeed, it is true that the price in Belgium has a slight downward spiral. That is precisely why we really need correct and complete information about the pricing setting. There is a great deal of work to be done if we are to manage the constant rise and fall of prices and achieve a good competition policy. We have not yet discussed production prices which are constantly rising. Making more transparency about the distribution of margins within the chain is a major necessity. Only in this way will we be able to take tailor-made measures to ensure that every link within the chain can remain healthy.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic133x.u92	Mr. President, Minister, on the occasion of the meat-free day, you wanted to make a communication and publish nine good reasons for eating meat on your site. In addition to the provocation and humour that you may have wanted to incorporate into your approach, perhaps beyond your willingness to support farmers or a meat sector, particularly beef, it is true that I was horrified by the nature of the comments and arguments used. You'll answer, "I didn't say to eat meat, but to eat'so' meat." It is true that you say that it is also good to eat vegetables next to meat. You are the Minister of Agriculture and the Economy. But in this government, there is also a Minister of Health and a health and nutrition-health policy organized between the federal and federated entities. All health policy messages say that meat consumption needs to be reduced because meat contains saturated fatty acids. There is therefore a whole mobilization to say today that Belgians, like Western citizens, consume too much meat. When too much meat is consumed, and this is also seen in all nutrition-health policies, less and not enough vegetables are consumed per day. Currently, 54 per cent of men and 40 per cent of women are overweight in our country, 14 per cent of the population is in real obesity. For young people between the ages of two and seventeen, the figure is 18%. The situation is serious. I am really surprised that, in this government, ministers are carrying out health and prevention policies to improve food, and besides that, somewhere to be seen by meat producers, one comes with a speech of which one will remember only one thing: one must eat more meat! In general, among the arguments that you use, such as "man needs meat", "it's good for health", etc., I found confusion in terms of percentages and grams consumed. You also confuse beef with red meat. Thus, you declare that the Belgian eats only 300 grams of red meat per week on average. But it's beef. He also eats chicken, pork and lamb. Before issuing information, you should check your sources. You also say it's good for the planet by invoking meadows, meadows, green plants that will capture CO2. In terms of livestock farming, we know today that – and this is not only the opinion of environmentalists, since the FAO and the United Nations have stressed this – livestock, through its rumination and excrement, emits CO2, but also particularly important and toxic methane and greenhouse gases. That is why it is essential not to cover the planet with animal husbandry. You also talk about the need to support the local, farmers and blue-white-Belgian. I do not have a problem with this in itself, and I would like to join you in this regard. Only that requires arguments other than those you mobilize. Farmers are disappearing because the policies that are put in place and the support they receive do not allow them to produce locally, i.e. from food from their land, without external input and without huge water consumption. You are also referring to the situation in Wallonia. In terms of farm intensity and rearing, it is not the same throughout the country. Again, meat is not just beef. If this farm is reduced per hectare, this is not the case for pigs and poultry. Here too, in your remarks, you have lacked nuances. What you are defending, obviously, does not work to save the farmers. "We have to feed the planet." If the former FAO spokesman heard you, he must have trembled on his chair. It is known that to feed the large amount of livestock raised by thinking of feeding the planet with livestock, it will be necessary to consume incredible amounts of water and cereals, soybeans and other plants that will be used for livestock food instead of serving local food policies. We are exporting our obesity, diabetes and cardiovascular diseases to developing countries. What are your sources for saying such things, on a minister's website, on your behalf? Finally, self-sufficiency. You say that sufficient production at our home avoids the import of livestock. On the other hand, a week ago, by answering questions in committee, you were in favour of the need to export our livestock, so that Belgian livestock could survive. Aircraft, boats, trucks, whether it's for import or export, it's still about movement and transportation. Here too, you defend contradictory things according to the questions you are asked and according to your interlocutors. Let the meat be good, I have nothing to say. Those who love meat can actually find it tasty. This is an argument that does not present factual error. Minister, could you put your communication back in a consistent government policy? I asked you specific questions in the inquiry that I filed. I'm not taking them all back. Could you give us your sources and explanations for the arguments that you have brought and which are contradicted? In fact, it is no longer true to say that man needs animal proteins to have a balanced diet. My point is obviously not at all to want to oppose the camps, namely meat eaters, vegetarians and vegans. We know that today it is possible to have a balanced diet that brings the necessary proteins without necessarily having to eat meat. Minister, I am asking you about all these arguments. Where did they come from? Are they correct?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic133x.u93	Mr President, Mrs Gerkens, thank you for your inquiry. First of all, I want to say that I respect all the convictions of those who have other opinions or orientations in terms of food, whether vegetarian, vegan or of any kind. Contrary to the presentation made, I would also like to point out that there are many nuances in my remarks. I'll be right back. I no longer agree with this ambient message in Belgium, from the Belgian minister... I am not responsible for a number of expressions elsewhere in the world. I do not agree that, systematically, we denigrate our agricultural activity, our producers in their diversity, our speculations and our products with this message, which is destructive of knowledge, experience, expertise and also of the elements of quality and health and environmental control that we know at home and which are of a very high level. Mrs Gerkens, I do say – and thank you for pointing out in your speech – that it does not seem unreasonable to me in her diet to eat meat too, alongside vegetables, fruits, fibres and other products. I confirm that this is in line with my conviction. With regard to the references you want, I invite you not to hesitate to read the work of Professor Beckers of Gembloux's world-renowned faculty, who insists on the balanced relationship that can be organised between animal production and the environment. I prefer this work on a balanced relationship between the work of our farmers and the valorisation of our products rather than adhering to this derogatory message that I do not accept. I read in a magazine, the same day as the release of my press release, nine reasons to eat less meat. In this regard, in the context of this relationship between our producers and the environment, you are aware that we have environmental standards in different parts of our country. As far as control is concerned, we have standards of rejection in the European context but also in the light of extremely precise regional provisions which are very high in relation to what is happening in the world. But we are going beyond that because, contrary to what you think, for having sat on an Environment Committee, in an office of the Minister of the Environment, I am with great attention a number of works, publications, research productions concerning, in particular, the relationship between agriculture and the environment. For example, I can quote from the passages of the study that Minister Henry commissioned under the previous legislature from the Walloon Region. This study was carried out by the veterinary faculty of the University of Liège on the management of methane discharges from dairy herds. In short, with this example, I illustrate how the production-breeding-environment relationship deserves to be, notwithstanding our regulatory quality standards, worked and studied. In this case, the right answer does not seem to me to kill our farm with the feeling of helping the planet. That is not something I can agree with. Of course, we can discuss it endlessly, but I claim and persist in saying that the dimension of proximity to our tools, both processing, production, marketing and then breeding, is an extremely important element. It takes from time to time to dare to take stock of products that travel hundreds or thousands of kilometres before you reach your plate and the productions of livestock made in certain parts of our country. I would like to point out that our standards in terms of production, food control, safety and traceability are standards that are needed at the global level. I regularly receive colleagues from other countries who come to meet with the AFSCA and other interlocutors to assess how high-quality our agriculture is from this point of view. I would also like to point out that we must be nuanced when we say that in Belgium our farming is likely to deprive us of the water essential for human life. Is this message, which in Belgium would say "Eat less meat" relevant to our specific situation in relation to our natural resources? Dear Mrs Gerkens, may I draw your attention to the fact that half of our agricultural area – or not far from this half – is made up of grasslands, including permanent grasslands? Unless I know nothing about agriculture, but I think I am one of those who know it a little bit more than a little bit, I think I know that a number of the areas in our Belgian territory are only suitable for permanent grasslands. A number of academic studies also mention the role of carbon sinks and the cycles generated by these permanent grasslands, which are of environmental interest. I'm slipping into a concern that's not going to surprise you any more. In a country with more than 600,000 unemployed people, in a country where a quarter of people live below the poverty line, I have environmental, public health and economic concerns. I am aware that there are 37,000 farms, but there are 80,000 people working in the agri-food sector in our country. Most often, they do so with the will of excellence. I don't want to destroy this by going through a number of chimeras in my analyses. As far as our national productions are concerned, I mentioned a panel in our press release. I would also like to point out that one of the analytical elements that we present when we receive foreign interlocutors is that, for example, white-blue-Belgian is a breed, given the level of selection it has reached, whose ratio is the most favourable between absorbed and generated meat. I quote the white-blue-belgian because, as you know, it is one of the bovine transformations of which we are the cradle of the world. We export products and seed all over the world. I would like to conclude by saying that, in the face of a crisis sector – I visited with Phil Hogan a pig farm in Flanders following a number of messages that I receive – we need to know how to be nuanced in the subject. I am afraid that very often people opposed to meat production are not. I therefore call for balanced communication and consumption, while preserving what we are doing here. And, believe me, what we are doing right at home, with levels of environmental protection, health, traceability and dietary quality is recognized. Of course, I didn't plead for suddenly everyone to go into unbridled meat consumption. That wasn't my point. That will not be so!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic133x.u94	Minister, you do not answer the questions, in any case, to the counter-arguments. I think that, in my remarks, I have not done the apology of veganism or vegetarianism, which I nevertheless consider to be interesting ways of feeding. That wasn't my point. I wanted to say that there is a global message from all the health actors that is to tell people to eat less meat. And you, in your message, said exactly the opposite. You have tried to use arguments and justify them; in part they are fair but for some they are not correct, including scientifically. You have constantly confused beef and red meat. It is a minimum to correct this. You only talk about beef and you regularly use the terms'red meat'. I don't care if we use one term or the other. But this allows you to distort and skew the numbers you quote. In the arguments that I have opposed you, in my inquiry, I think you are also transforming some of them. At the global level, livestock farming uses a huge amount of water. It can be said that almost half of the water consumption will go into livestock production. In your arguments, you say that thanks to the meat, thanks to the breeding, we will feed the planet. This is also an argument that is not on the road. Of course, we have criteria and standards, and fortunately! The situation has improved and the latest report on water quality in Wallonia indicates that cattle farming is not excessive in intensity. But there were animals other than beef and water that had too much nitrogen. It is clear that there are sources of pollution and it is clear that it is necessary to have a balance, but that is not really what you are saying. I have prepared a motion for a recommendation calling on this government to pursue coherent policies between economics, agriculture and health. I would also ask you to correct some of the errors on your website regarding beef, red meat and the impact of livestock farming on greenhouse gas emissions. With regard to farmers and breeders in Belgium today, I am particularly concerned about their situation. They disappear at a staggering rate from year to year. They must be protected and it is clear that current policies do not allow this. Perhaps if they were supported in another form of farming and in another form of farming, where they could sell their production at correct prices and thus have a wage that allows them to develop their activity, we would be able to save it better than today.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic133x.u95	Mr President, I believe that both sides have their rights and their vision. For the second time, the Minister is getting his hat on for the second time today, because I have read the reactions of the agricultural organizations. The Minister has tried in a very correct and well-intentioned way to argue for a healthy balance in our diet, with an en-en-story, including for vegetarians. He propagates the consumption of meat in a very good way. One can misinterpret everything, I haven't done that. I am convinced that meat can be part of healthy food. It's also the first time I've heard obesity associated with meat. I would rather stick to sugar, but certainly not meat. The Minister has given a nice explanation. The two theories are negotiable. Anyway, I really appreciate the Minister's initiative.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic133x.u96	Mr President, I suggest that my colleague consult the report of the World Health Organization, the Belgian Nutrition Health Plan and the reports of cardiologists and diabetics. She will see that there is a direct relationship. I do not plead for a ban on meat consumption. On the other hand, our message should be: "Eat less meat and more vegetables". That goes hand in hand.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic133x.u97	In Flanders, we know the proverb "So it passes everywhere," which will also be known in Wallonia. If we are looking for a fair balance and a balance for everything, then that can only be healthy.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-31-54-commissie-ic133x.u98	In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. A motion for recommendation was tabled by Ms. Muriel Gerkens and reads as follows: The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Mrs Muriel Gerkens and the response of the Minister for Middle Classes, Self-Employed, SMEs, Agriculture and Social Integration, asks the government - to make its policies consistent for the benefit of public health between agricultural policies, nutrition-health policies and policies to combat obesity, diabetes and cardiovascular diseases; - to correct by the Minister of Agriculture the errors made on his website relating to the consumption of beef and red meat; - to do the same for errors in the impacts of livestock farming on greenhouse gas emissions; - to support agricultural workers by supporting extensive local fashion production in order to guarantee them a sustainable economic future and a quality food that respects the environment. A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Muriel Gerkens and reads as follows: The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mrs Muriel Gerkens and the reply of the Minister for Small and Medium-sized Enterprises, Self-employed, SMEs, Agriculture and Social Integration, calls on the Government - bring greater coherence to its agricultural, food and health policies and the fight against obesity, diabetes and cardiovascular diseases with a view to promoting public health; - order the Minister for Agriculture to rectify the errors on his website concerning the consumption of beef and red meat; - to do the same with the errors concerning the impact of livestock farming on greenhouse gas emissions; - support farmers by supporting extensive local production in order to ensure a sustainable economic future for farmers and to ensure the production of quality food with respect for the environment. ........................................................................................ A simple motion was tabled by Ms. Rita Gantois and Mr. Benoît Friart. A simple motion was tabled by Mrs Rita Gantois and Mr Benoît Friart. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over.
