ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic162x.u1	Mr President, Minister, I had addressed this question to your colleague Peeters, thinking that it was about consumer protection. But she's apparently been redirected to you. You have certainly already turned on the television when you come home late in the evening, for example to have a background noise, and found that shows were devoted to games of chance from about one hour in the morning. I'm being challenged by this kind of program. A few figures have been put forward by the gambling commission. There were 924 television shows, 1,142 games, 77,343 players, 203,635 euros of redistributed winnings. Participation in these games has a variable rate ranging from €0.5 to €2 per participation. One might think that this amount is minimal, but each text message sent and received results in additional billing. At the top right of the screen, the number of people who are waiting for a response from these games of chance is indicated. At one or two o'clock in the morning, it can be noticed that these are several dozen people. Even though I know that there is regulation for all these games, you have to think about addiction, over-indebtedness, poverty. Do you think that consumer protection standards for this type of game are sufficiently stringent? Many preventive statements point to responsible and not excessive participation within the limits of the player's abilities, thus warning him against a financial problem and/or risk of dependency. I doubt that players take the trouble of going to read the law and/or the rules of the game before a participation. Do you think these statements are sufficient? The holder of an operating licence for games of chance on television is obliged to contact participants who spend more than 50 euros per day. In the same vein, the gambling commission must contact any player who participates more than 25 times in the game during the day. Should these limits not be revised downwards? Going even further, like the various exclusion mechanisms of some players, would it not be possible to create a blockage, not at the request of the judiciary, but an automatic blockage of these players exceeding a threshold defined in the participation in a television game? It will then be up to them, as in the case of other mechanisms, whether or not to request the lifting of this exclusion. In addition, the participation of minors is obviously prohibited. It is also intended that the player may be required to prove his age. However, how is the age of the participant verified in practice? Is this simple requirement not slender in the interests of the protection of minors? How do I check through the phone that we're dealing with a minor? Finally, the annual report of the gambling commission mentions the disappearance of telephone gambling in Flanders. Can you confirm this and tell us more? There seems to be some mention at this level. Some TV stations have decided to give up this type of game. I would like more information on this phenomenon, which can lead to gambling dependence, over-indebtedness and poverty risks. I am very reluctant about these practices. We make people think they're gonna win. For example, the name of an animal is requested in a grid. You send fifty without much thought; it is never this one. When it's just this one, it's the lowest gain in that case. You get 50 euros, while you could make 5,000 euros. That's the principle too, it's to raise the auctions. This type of emission remains extremely harmful.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic162x.u2	Mr President, Mrs Matz, consumer protection must be carried out in a coherent and cross-cutting manner for all gambling offers. The same warning message on the danger of gambling should be broadcast by all private and public operators. As far as the private sector is concerned, an opinion on the ethical rules to be followed by operators, in particular with regard to advertising, has been requested from the gambling commission with a view to concluding a convention and taking a royal order on ethics which is part of the requirements of the function and which is a criterion imposed on the operator in order to retain a licence. The Commission works in collaboration with the Jury d'éthique advertique. Many preventive statements refer to responsible and not excessive participation within the limits of the player's abilities, thus warning him against any financial concern and/or risk of dependence. "I don't think the players are bothering to read the law and/or the rules of the game before a participation," you say. You're asking me if these statements seem sufficient. In the past, the gambling commission has conducted information campaigns on the dangers of gambling. Brochures were widely distributed by hundreds of thousands. A teaching method has been developed to work on the target of minors through schools. The Commission plans to reorganise poster campaigns in public places such as railway stations and posts by promoting a key slogan. The holder of an operating licence for games of chance on television is obliged to contact participants who spend more than 50 euros per day. With this in mind, the gambling commission must contact any player who participates in the game more than 25 times during the same day. These limits seem sufficient to me, given that the number of persons concerned is very limited. The automatic blocking you mentioned was implemented for online games in 2012. Such a blocking system is only possible if the game history is known. It should be generalized to all games with a unique access key. In order to achieve this objective, public gambling policy needs to be strengthened in budgetary terms and in coherence, which means that all private and public operators must be subject to it. In addition, age is verified in the event of earnings. In addition, where there is doubt as to the age of a participant, the operator shall request the date of birth. In order to strengthen this age and identity control, contacts with the National Register have been strengthened in order to improve this control on the basis of the identity card. Finally, television games have disappeared in Flanders since a decree was issued.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic162x.u3	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your answer. You just recalled the supervision of the TV games of chance. In absolute terms, it can indeed be assumed that these rules are sufficient. But does the gambling commission carry out these checks well? Are players really warned when their bets exceed 50 euros or when they play more than 25 times? As I said, the existing rules do not seem to me to be insufficient. I simply ask myself whether they are actually being applied. Moreover, does this type of game, which can objectively be problematic in terms of over-indebtedness incentives, still have a raison d'être? However, I note that your department does not question these practices.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic162x.u4	Question No 3793 by Mr Emir Kir is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic162x.u5	Minister, in 2009, Messrs. Reynders and De Clercq, respectively Minister of Finance and Minister of Justice at the time, had announced, during a trip to Tournai for the inauguration of the renovated cell wing of the prison in Tournai, the construction within ten years of a new courthouse on a former military ground in the center of the city. I can assure you that on that day, some of them would come out of their arms to appear in the photo! According to the information I found on Didier Reynders' website, there was a new building that would be built on 20,000 m2 of land owned by the Defense. The cost would be between EUR 55 million and EUR 60 million. In your Justice Plan, you mention the modernisation and rationalisation of the infrastructures and buildings of the judicial organization, through a master plan "palais de justice". Is the project for which two parties were still in the majority still out of date? Is the planned location still the same? Knowing that because of the austerity measures taken by your government, the Department of Justice is being imposed a 10 per cent budget cut in the space of four fiscal years, can we still hope that a new courthouse in Tournai will be built? When could he see the light?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic162x.u6	Mr Delannois, I would like to refer to my Justice Plan, Section 4.1.4.3, on the master plan for judicial buildings, in which I state that the many judicial buildings should be subject to a thorough rationalization exercise which should ultimately lead to a significant reduction in the number of places of hearing and a more centralised management of the buildings. The Justice Plan makes it clear that this master plan should be ready by the end of the year. This exercise is not an easy task and must take into account many factors and actors. We will now begin this task, but it is still too early to answer more detailed questions. For the case of the new courthouse in Tournai, I will be able to give you more information than at that time.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic162x.u7	As is customary, I should thank you for your answer, minister, but having not received an answer, I will come back with my question and be assured of it. I hope that what I sometimes call the Marghem/De Wever government will not bury the promises that had been made, because I can assure you – just see the Tournai courthouse – that this question will not remain a dead letter. If we didn't build a new one, at least we could renovate the current courthouse. In this regard, I may come back after your masterplan to find out if a renovation of the current courthouse is possible. Indeed, it is one thing that we Tournaisians do not wish, namely the disappearance of the courthouse to the benefit of its establishment in other boroughs. We do not want to be a city with just justice of peace.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic162x.u8	Mr President, Minister, the Optional Protocol to the United Nations Convention against Torture and Other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Punishment (OPCAT) is an international convention which, although signed by Belgium in 2005, has still not been ratified. The Protocol provides for the establishment of a system of regular visits by independent international and national bodies to places where persons are deprived of their liberty, in order to prevent torture and other cruel, inhuman and degrading treatment or punishment. For example, the Central Council and the supervisory commissions have a dual role in visiting and monitoring prisons, but do not provide the guarantees of independence referred to in the Protocol. The government agreement states that in order to ensure this independent prison supervision, the Central Prison Supervision Board and the supervisory commissions will report to the House of Representatives. It's a good orientation. But this is in fact only a reminder of the provisions of section 22 of the Law of Principles on the Legal Status of Prisoners, a necessary reminder, I agree, since the latest annual report available on the FPS Justice website dates from 2010! Nevertheless, after several years of operation, many of the members of the supervisory commissions and the Central Council are insurgent about the lack of effects of their interventions, remarks, requests and proposals. In order to justify the non-ratification by our country of this optional protocol, which would require an adaptation of the provisions relating to the Central Council and the supervisory commissions, your predecessors have always advanced our institutional complexity, namely that the bodies involved at the federal and regional level must decide on the national control mechanism to be set up and that ratification must then be submitted to the legislative bodies at the federal and Community level. This justification seems doubtful to me in the light of the text of the Protocol itself, as it states in its article 17 that "the mechanisms established by decentralized entities may be designated as national preventive mechanisms for the purposes of this Protocol, if they are in conformity with its provisions". For example, Switzerland and Germany, which are also federal countries, have ratified and applied the Convention. I take note with satisfaction of your commitment, affirmed in the Committee of the Interior on 22 April, to make fully operational an independent national human rights mechanism for the end of this legislature. But this does not answer essential questions in this case. Minister, will the Protocol be ratified in this Parliament? If so, will this commitment be clarified during Belgium's universal periodic review to the Human Rights Council this summer? When will the reports of the Central Prison Supervision Board for the years 2011 to 2014 be available? When will the title on handling detainees' complaints of the Law of Principles finally come into force? Will the national human rights body be competent to control places of deprivation of liberty other than prisons, such as closed centres?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic162x.u9	Mr President, Mr Maingain, you will not be surprised at the beginning of my answer. Let me begin by reiterating that, given the complexity and, above all, the fact that a cooperation agreement will have to be negotiated and concluded and subsequently approved by the various parliaments, it seems realistic to expect a full operationalization of the independent national human rights mechanism by the end of the legislature. I also repeat that this does not, however, prevent faster progress from being made on specific constituent elements based on the political consensus that has been reached. In this regard, I am thinking of our Central Prison Supervision Board and the local supervisory boards. The government agreement refers to the proposed establishment of an independent national human rights mechanism. This file has been prepared in recent months. A first meeting of the intercabinet working group was held at my office last week. The aim is to establish an organization that fully meets the so-called "Paris" principles and therefore receives status A. This also implies real independence in all areas. The strengthening of the independence of the Central Prison Supervision Board and the local supervisory commissions should be part of this major project, which requires an integrated approach and the gradual establishment of consultation with all stakeholders. As I have already said, we cannot ignore the inter-federal nature of this exercise. The monitoring of places where people are deprived of their liberty, as provided for by OPCAT, goes beyond the context of our prisons and internees. The question of whether the OPCAT Protocol will be ratified under this legislature, therefore, does not depend solely on the federal level. However, I hope to learn more about the intentions of the federated entities before the end of October as part of our report for the Human Rights Council: the Universal Periodic Review. This also applies to your question about the possible competence of the mechanism to control places of deprivation of liberty other than prisons. Each federated entity will have to decide whether it prefers to assign this prerogative to the mechanism itself or rather to an agency specific to the federated entity, which would have established a link with the mechanism. With regard to the closed centres, I look forward to the position of Secretary of State Theo Francken's office in the context of the inter-cabinet discussions. With regard to your second question, I confirm that I have not received any annual reports from the Central Prison Supervision Board. It should be noted, however, that the Central Council is an independent body that controls part of my department, not the other way around. At the end of the government agreement, the Central Prison Supervision Board and the supervisory commissions were to report to the House of Representatives in order to ensure a fully independent prison supervision. On your third question, I refer to my March 2015 Justice Plan. I would like to point out that on the basis of an in-depth study and an opinion of the Central Council and the supervisory committees, it is possible to envisage a right of complaint. This requires the establishment of an Appeals Board and a Complaints Committee within these bodies, chaired by a judge. This requires an additional organization with logistical and financial support that these bodies do not currently have, far from it. If the Central Council and the Commissions are transferred to the House of Representatives, and this remains the intention of the Government, they will be able to negotiate with this Assembly the means at their disposal in order to fully carry out their tasks.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic162x.u10	Minister, thank you for your detailed answer. I have no doubt that you will make progress on this issue, which unfortunately has been going on for too long. I have no doubt that you are eagerly seeking an agreement with the federated entities. I see that, very skilfully, you are forcing the House to take over the budget burden of the Central Council and perhaps find a source of funding.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic162x.u11	Honni be who doesn't think well!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic162x.u12	I do not know whether the Speaker of the House has already received a letter from you suggesting this development.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic162x.u13	In a democracy, it's normal. This is done through parliament. You're making me a trial of intent.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic162x.u14	No, I don't want to sue you for intent. I just want to check the methodology. I see clearly the budgetary consequences of the implementation of the measures imposed on us by the correct application of an international convention on the day when it will have its full and complete effects in domestic law. But you practice the side pass in rugby, in a way: you do not have the budgetary means, let's see if by placing them under the orbit of the House, there will be possible funding there. The question is when you will make the side pass to get the case before the House. This is my only question. Perhaps your proposal has its purpose. The Chamber has hosted a number of oversight bodies independent of the executive branch within its scope of operation. It was considered useful to welcome them, and there were premises available to do so. For taking on the role of Quaestor, I think the House has the capacity to welcome. The question is whether you have formally made the request or whether a court has formally requested the Chamber to include in its budget estimates and in its consolidated management the management of these bodies. My question is about progress!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic162x.u15	Question No 4041 by Mrs Katja Gäbriels is transformed into a written question. Joined Questions No 4042 by Mrs Carina Van Cauter and No 4159 by Mrs Ôzlem Özen, Joined Questions No 4043 by Mrs Carina Van Cauter and No 4157 by Mrs Ôzlem Özen and Joined Questions No 4045 by Mrs Carina Van Cauter and No 4156 by Mrs Özlem Özen are postponed. Question No 4079 by Mr Christian Brotcorne is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic162x.u16	Mr President, Mr Minister, the Court of Cassation has recently decided an important controversy on the grounds that the police do not need permission from the investigating judge to consult the memory of a gsm. The judgment of the Court of Cassation is neither very long nor very precise as to the circumstances in which such consultations may take place. The Opinion of the Advocate General, Damien Vandermeersch, is no more precise as to the extent of the case-law. For the Court of Cassation, "the exploitation of the memory of a mobile phone, whose messages are stored in the form of text messages, is a measure deriving from the seizure, which can be carried out in the context of information without any other formality than those provided for in this act of investigation. Where the entry of the support of the computer system is not justified, the Crown Prosecutor may take copies of the data relevant to the information on media related to the authority. Access to this device implies that the investigating police officers can analyse the data stored in the memory." It is the interview with the spokesperson for the North Zone that brings us more elements but also raises some questions. According to him, consulting a gsm's brief is not illegal: "It results from the instructions contained in the National Data Bank which gives special instructions in case of control of a known person. This is also the case when it comes to flagrante delicto, drug trafficking, etc. No question of subjecting anyone to this type of control." For Mathieu Beys, a lawyer at the Ligue des droits de l'Homme, this decision deprives of its substance the protection that every citizen has the right to wait for to guarantee the private nature of the computer systems that are telephones and computers. I must point out, minister, that in the memory of a gsm we can find something other than exchanges. Photos can also be found there, and this can be about privacy. Minister, what is the scope and what are the limits of this judgment? What range do you give him? What are the possible application cases in your opinion? Should this judgment be considered to be a ruling on contradictory case law so far? What are the conditions set by the National Data Bank for police control of a known person to be transformed into an investigation to carry out acts such as seizures? Is it not paradoxical to dispense with the authorization of an investigating judge to read the communications contained in a mobile phone when the law provides for the authorization of that same judge for the seizure of postal mail? Would it not be appropriate to clarify the law in order to cover these cases rather than allow for random use of this judgment?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic162x.u17	Mr Laaouej, like you, I have read this judgment of the Court of Cassation of 11 February, which is already available on its website, juridat.be. It does not seem to me that it is up to the Minister of Justice to comment on the Court's judgments and, much less, to define their scope, limits and cases of application or to point to paradoxes. I shall therefore confine myself to observing, like you, that she finds that - I have the same quote as you and it ends at home -: "In this case, the investigators had merely consulted the data contained in the co-prevenant's cell phone, which had been seized, without it being apparent that these officers would have conducted an extensive search from and beyond that phone". I don't think you've read that sentence, but I'm mentioning it so it can be repeated. Such an extensive search requiring a connection with a computer system in another location or with an external server would have exceeded the powers of the King's Prosecutor as defined in article 39bis of the Code of Criminal Investigation and would require a warrant issued by an investigating judge on the basis of article 88ter of the Code. With regard to Article 90ter of the EC Treaty on wiretapping, learning and recording of private communications and telecommunications, the Court found in previous judgments that it applies only to the transmission phase and not to the recorded data. As regards the General National Data Bank (BNG), its management rules are laid down by the Act of 18 March 2014. One of its purposes is to assist in the monitoring carried out mainly on the ground by the police services, by indicating what possible measures should be taken with regard to the audited entity. In practical terms, these measures are generally included in the BNG at the request of a judicial authority, for example following the issuance of an arrest warrant or a police service, particularly in the case of many history of theft. It is essential to control the means of transport that may contain objects used to commit burglars in homes. Like all data recorded in the BNG, the measures to be taken must be adequate, relevant and not excessive in relation to the administrative or judicial police purposes pursued. The Code of Criminal Investigation specifies that the primary purpose of seizure is to protect and preserve evidence or defence material that may be used to reveal the truth or subsequently confiscated. It is therefore within this framework that the insertion of the measure to be taken into the BNG is carried out. This measure may be supplemented by information explaining the concrete actions expected in case of seizure.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic162x.u18	Minister, thank you. Of course, I did not ask you to comment on a court decision, but to clarify the scope of the law, according to its interpretation. That seems legitimate to me in a parliamentary report to a minister. Minister, we need to take stock of this decision and how it is interpreted by a police representative. This could lead to tomorrow, in certain circumstances, in the event of a driving offence, for example, to the seizure of someone's gsm and access to a number of very personal, very intimate data. It seems to me essential to have a reflection on the subject in order to recall the limits of this kind of intervention, perhaps by a clarification in the law. I repeat that this is about the protection of privacy, a fundamental element of our democracy.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic162x.u19	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Van Cauter's 4138 was postponed. Now we come to question No. 4155 by Mrs Van Vaerenbergh on the Victims' Fund.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic162x.u20	Mr President, I have converted this question into a written question and my question No. 4173.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic162x.u21	Minister, in the presentation of your plan, we were able to read that you are also planning to limit the number of assistance processes by creating the possibility of correcting all crimes. The key figures of the judicial activity show that from 2000 to 2013 more than 1 000 assist cases took place in Belgium. The last four years there have been 329. On Thursday, I read the story of a man who threatens to go free for statute of limitations because the matter can no longer be scheduled on the agenda in good time. The agenda seems to be overcrowded in Brussels. The man himself will not be released since he is still in prison for a previous crime, but for the family of his second victim that is a lean consolation. Mr Minister, I have the following questions. Firstly, is there currently a delay in organizing assistance processes? Can you indicate for the different courts of assists until when the agenda is fully booked? What solutions are available in the short term? Secondly, were there any releases in the last four years for exceeding the reasonable period of time? If so, how many per year and for which jurisdictions, and how many are specific to Brussels? The figures for assist cases are shown by arrondissement. In Brussels, however, a distinction must be made between Dutch-speaking and French-speaking assists. The total figures show for 2010, 2011, 2012 and 2013 respectively 13, 10, 22 and 16 cases. How many axle processes took place in Dutch and how many in French? In the meantime, Minister, we have heard your plan to address this problem. Perhaps the legislation will come in time for this case.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic162x.u22	Mr President, Minister, the General Prosecutor's Office in Brussels announced last week that the so-called "Remes bis" trial cannot take place until 25 October 2015, when the prescription of the facts will be reached, because the agenda of the sitting court is too busy. This congestion of the sitting court makes it physically impossible to conduct the trial in a timely manner. So, Minister, how do you explain the current congestion of the Brussels sitting court, leading to the impossibility of fixing a case before the statute of limitations is reached? Are there any other cases that may be prescribed before they can be tried? What do you intend to do to remedy this situation? Do you intend to submit to Parliament a bill extending the statute of limitations? Could such a bill, if any, come into force before the statute of limitations is reached in the so-called "Remes bis" case?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic162x.u23	Ladies and gentlemen, I have already had the opportunity to speak about the cumbersomeness and cost of the procedure before the Court of Assizes. It is this heaviness that explains the existing congestion and leads to unbearable delays in being able to try criminals. These deadlines are such that they can lead to the release of criminals when pre-trial detention of alleged innocent persons becomes unreasonably long or even prescriptive, which is even more unacceptable. I am not aware of any other case which would be in the same case as the one you mentioned, but I have announced that I will propose measures this year to adapt the existing procedure, i.e. to provide for the participation of professional judges in the deliberations on guilt. Even more important is the generalization of the correction of crimes, which is also included in the Justice Plan that I had the honour to present to you. The Plan will be presented shortly, given the urgency in the context of the "pot-pourri 2" bill, amending criminal law and criminal procedure, which is currently being discussed in intercabinet working groups. This reform will make it possible to bring before the Court of Assize only those cases that truly deserve it. With regard to the congestion of the agenda of the assize courts, I will also propose to the government, in the context of the "pot-pourri 2" draft law, to submit to Parliament an amendment to article 115, paragraph 3, of the Judicial Code in order to allow a session of the assize courts to be held at the seat of another court of first instance within the jurisdiction of the Court of Appeal. This reform alone will not eliminate the backlog, but at least the first president will be able to allocate the cases at best according to the availability of the courts concerned. Finally, since you have with MM. Ducrame, Foret and Miller, tabled the bill increasing the statute of limitations for non-correctable crimes to twenty years, you know better than anyone else, the Walloon Brabant killing case will soon be prescribed if the applicable statute of limitations is not extended. The government agreement aims to extend the statute of limitations to 20 years for offences punishable by life imprisonment and committed in a band. However, it was necessary to coordinate this change with the generalization of the correction of crimes, but given the urgency, you will already be proposed to adapt article 21, paragraph 2, of the preliminary title of the Code of Criminal Procedure in the context of the bill "pot-pourri 1" amending the law of civil procedure. Mrs Van Vaerenbergh, as has already been said, the College of Attorneys General cannot provide statistics on oral questions, since the time limit for replying to them is too short. With regard to the existence of a problem and the solutions I propose, I refer to the answer to Mr Goffin's question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic162x.u24	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I understand there are no statistics. I am very sorry that there are no figures.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic162x.u25	In the short term.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic162x.u26	In that case, I shall perhaps put a written question. Furthermore, I look forward to your potpourriwet design, because something needs to be done about the assistance procedure. It is no longer in line with what is now needed. The most important thing, of course, is whether it is through the Court of Assists or through a special procedure of correction, that perpetrators of crimes are punished and that there is indeed a trial. It is, of course, regrettable and very unfortunate that such a case is no longer likely to be dealt with, for the reasons cited.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic162x.u27	Questions Nos 4160 and 4161 by Mrs Özen are postponed. Debates of the European Parliament 4173 by Mrs Van Vaerenbergh is converted into a written question. Questions Nos 4039 and 4144 Van Hecke is transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic162x.u28	Thank you, Minister, for listening to my question. It's no secret that there's something in the government agreement about drugs as well. On page 92 we read the following: "The possession of drugs is prohibited." The use of drugs in public space cannot be the subject of a tolerance policy. In Antwerp there is a special policy in this area: the nuisance caused by drug use, both by users and dealers, has been dealt with by introducing zero tolerance, under the impetus of the new administration and the new mayor. Initially, this only happened in Antwerp. However, we have recently been informed by the press that the light has also been seen in Brussels and will introduce zero tolerance. First a pilot project starts in Ixelles. According to the parquet, that pilot project will subsequently be rolled out throughout Brussels. This means that anyone who owns, uses or sells cannabis will get a friendly settlement for an amount of 90 euros. That amount must be paid immediately. For those who can't afford it, there will be a quick-track procedure. They'll be subpoenaed before the proper court. We will then be prosecuted not only for the drug crime but also for disorderly conduct. There are serious fines: from EUR 6 000 to EUR 600 000 and prison sentences from three months to one year. However, one must be able to demonstrate very well the breach of public order. I think these are good projects, both in Antwerp and in Brussels. On the French-speaking side, especially in the newspapers, where I think about Sud Presse, there were a lot of critical sounds from the Justice Department about this passage in the government agreement and, of course, implicitly about the pilot projects that are under way. The President of the Court of First Instance in Liège said that he did not see the point and that this policy would be at the expense of other very important dossiers. At the parquet, too, there would be a lack of resources for this. Minister, what concrete measures has the government taken in the meantime to implement the plan of the government agreement? Do you share the view of some sources of justice that more resources will be needed to implement this policy effectively? Will the current directive, which defines the possession of three grams of cannabis for the personal use of adults as a priority of persecution, not be amended? Or do you think that the current directive fits in with the passage in the coalition agreement and its philosophy? What are your views on the policy in Antwerp and the pilot project in Brussels? Will other pilot projects be launched? If so, where?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic162x.u29	Mrs De Wit, first of all I would like to refer to the answer I gave to Mrs Özen last week on a similar question. My position on what is stated in the government agreement on drug use is clear. The use of drugs is not permitted in public spaces and no tolerance policy is established or pursued. I would like to point out, however, that drug policy remains characterised by an integrated and differentiated approach to the drugs problem in which many partners are involved. This multidisciplinary approach will not be reduced to a purely repressive approach, but will also focus on prevention, early detection of drug problems, e.g. nuisance or problematic use, and assistance. These tasks do not fall within my remit, but within those of my federal colleagues in the House of Commons and of colleagues in the Community governments, who are responsible for welfare. Investigation and criminal prosecution are the key elements in this process, in which Justice gives priority to tackling the production, smuggling and trafficking of drugs, including dealing in streets or squares. In terms of use, Justice gives priority to addressing problematic uses and behaviours that pose an acute risk to the health of the user, to his environment and to his functioning within society and to public safety. The applicable circular COL2/2005 does not imply any tolerance policy. He does, however, offer the prosecution a realistic way to set priorities in the prosecution. This leaves room for a stricter policy at local level, insofar as the King's Attorney considers it appropriate. As the Procurator des Konings of the Antwerp department park explicitly states, the policy in Antwerp enrols in the COL2/2005. In application of a round-the-clock letter from the public prosecutor, caught drug owners are dealt with through the immediate friendly settlement, thus deterring and disrupting the local drug markets in the major city. The pilot project in Ixelle-Matonge is also an example of this, as I have already explained. I asked the College of Attorneys-General whether an evaluation of the projects in Antwerp and Brussels-Elsene was foreseen. As regards the pilot project at Ixelles, it is announced that the project will be constantly evaluated by the various partners and that a debriefing will take place after each operation. As regards the policy in Antwerp, after a first evaluation on 5 November 2014, it was decided to continue the OMS' system towards cannabis users for an indefinite period, but to review it annually. I believe that some time should also be given to measure the sustainability of the effects of a practice on the ground. The drugs directives in the drugs policy of 2003 and 2005 are currently being updated on behalf of the College of Attorneys General in the expertise network, in particular to correct a number of errors or provisions that have become obsolete. There will certainly be no new direction or relaxation of cannabis policy. The draft texts are not yet available. As far as resources are concerned, I must tell you that justice must also make the necessary savings. No additional resources are available.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic162x.u30	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. The repressive approach is indeed only part of the whole, in addition to prevention and assistance. For me, persecution isn't really the ending piece or a circle that's round. The prosecution can also be used as prevention. Every gram taken off the street is a gram that can no longer be used and is an important principle. Why are these pilot projects and the evaluations important? It is a good thing that we are trying to do this in Brussels. In Antwerp there is a favourable evaluation. We see that this works there. A problem can, of course, move. That's like thieves gangs. They're moving too. I think it is important to systematically close the loopholes of the network everywhere. That is why it is interesting to look at these evaluations and to see them not only as an opportunity for local authorities to be stricter than is prescribed, but to actually implement them in policy, as is also included in our government agreement. That way we can close the loopholes of that net. That's what it's got to be us. Repression isn't just a closing piece. It is also a first step towards future prevention. So these projects are very important. You say that no additional resources are available for this. I think the goodwill within the Justice Department is important in this. In Antwerp and Brussels it seems that this can be done. The secondary costs of drug use, sometimes stolen to finance drugs, could then be eliminated. To reduce the costs for society, thus releasing resources and time that should not be spent on these matters. I think it's much more of an en-en-story. This needs to be looked at in its entirety.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic162x.u31	Mr President, Mr Minister, in recent years, on a very numerous occasions, problems relating to the application of the principle of diplomatic immunity in the resolution of legal conflicts or alleged offences committed by diplomats in Belgium have covered the chronicle. In some cases, the principle of immunity gives rise to a sense of quasi-impunity for those enjoying diplomatic status. I am thinking of cases of rented apartments, but whose rent or expenses have not been paid or of degraded property whose repair has not been reimbursed, but not only; there are also cases of theft of vehicles or computer equipment or other. In response to a question that I addressed to your colleague in charge of Foreign Affairs during the last parliamentary term, the latter told me that his department was not systematically seized of the offences committed by the diplomatic corps, so he intended to ask his colleague in the Department of Justice for the number of cases closed without further action. Indeed, the Minister of Foreign Affairs will not be able to ask the country accrediting the diplomat to waive the diplomatic immunity of the person concerned only if he is aware of the suspicions of crimes or offences committed by the suspect diplomat. Minister, could you please explain to me the number of judicial information concerning common crimes or offences committed by diplomats in office over the last ten years? How many of these have been transferred to the FPS Foreign Affairs Protocol Service? They have a service that is particularly aware of such sensitive problems. Could you please tell me how many cases have resulted in a positive outcome for the victims, in the form of reparation, restitution or compensation? Does the Public Prosecutor's Office now automatically transmit to the FPS Foreign Affairs any information relating to an investigation into crimes or offences committed by diplomats?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic162x.u32	Mr President, Mr Hellings, the College of Attorneys General has confirmed to me that the judicial authorities, in the event of a violation of the criminal law by a person who has diplomatic immunity, question the foreign embassy at national level to ascertain the situation of the person concerned. In practice, it appears that the majority of offences relate to driving offences. The request goes through the chain of command, from the Public Prosecutor's Office to the Office of the Minister for Foreign Affairs. The response to the request is made by the (...) [[Interferences of a gsm]] The issue of statistics by the statistical analysts of the Public Prosecutor's Office is set out in a strict procedure whereby all the figures provided must be validated by all the prosecutors of the King of the jurisdictions concerned. For this reason, the College of Attorneys General is unable to provide statistics in response to your oral parliamentary question, as the response time was too short. To the extent that statistics are available, however, they may be provided to written parliamentary replies within which the deadline for reply allows for the prescribed procedure.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic162x.u33	I will therefore table a written question concerning the figures. On the other hand, on the process, it is important that at some point the FPS Foreign Affairs be kept informed of the judicial proceedings, in which case it does not know how to proceed with the request to the country concerned to waive diplomatic immunity. The challenge is not to make citizens of the second zone or the first zone, that is, a diplomat could do absolutely what he wants, being protected by this immunity. I look forward to obtaining these figures. We will then come back to the debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic162x.u34	Mr President, Minister, at the end of April there was a rebellion in the prison of Ghent. Five penitentiary officers were forced to take themselves to safety. Then they've locked themselves in a room. Meanwhile, six inmates could walk free in prison. They seem to have destroyed a lot of things. The police were finally able to free the penitentiary officers and take the prisoners back, but apparently there is a lot of damage. Could you give us some more information on the circumstances in which this rebellion could take place? What damage was done? What is the estimated cost of repairing this damage? Do you have any idea what sanctions will be imposed against the insurgency?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic162x.u35	Mr President, Mrs De Wit, it is true that during the food delivery ceremony on 25 April in Ghent, a number of prisoners showed rebellious behaviour. Because they were very threatening and armed with pieces of cell furniture, especially with table legs, the staff present decided to get to safety. Most could leave the cellular area without problems, others remained in isolated places such as the women's section and the kitchen. The police were immediately summoned and were very quickly on the scene, just like the fire department. In particular, federal detectives, the Ghent COPS and the Special Forces of the judicial police came very quickly to the scene. At that time, two employees could not be located, which caused fear of a hostage situation. It has then become apparent that they had been hiding, without further ado. It was therefore necessary to wait for action to be taken. When both officers were located and it was clear that they were not being held hostage, the police forces acted to put an end to the incident. Although there were no wounds, the staff was very impressed. Yet everyone responded in a very professional way during this incident. It is therefore appropriate to thank these penitentiary officers, as well as all the other people who intervened, namely the regional management, the police and the fire department, for their actions. I did this in person yesterday. I went to the prison in Ghent and found that the officials, who were personally involved because they had to be isolated during the riots, are already working again and are strongly supported by their fellow officers and the management. The fact that there were no injuries to persons no doubt indicates the good atmosphere in Ghent's prison. Indeed, it was limited to material damage, which in itself is bad enough, but which is still much less serious than damage to persons. The prison officials have been treated with great respect by the troublemakers. The material damage is quite considerable. These include ICT infrastructure, metal detection portals, furniture, etc. The overall estimate has not yet been made, but damage has already been identified for EUR 4 000 to EUR 5 000. This is probably going to go further. The repairs took place very quickly in order to immediately return the climate in the prison to a normal level. The sanctioning is dealt with in different ways. First of all, the same night and night by the Ghent police a number of prisoners were transferred to other prisons so that they could relax in Ghent prison, if I may put it that way. Of course, the necessary disciplinary procedures and sanctions have been taken. The court has initiated an investigation into the motives of this action, which have so far been unclear. The Belgian State has lodged a complaint with bourgeois parties.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic162x.u36	Mr Minister, as your story progressed, it was indeed bizarre to hear that the penitentiary officials were not personally endorsed, but rather that material damage was caused. It is of course interesting to know the motives of the rebellion. Why is this escalated to this extent? If one can use table legs as a weapon, this means that one does not have a table after that. This is a reflection on how to arm penitentiary officials against this, I mean this figuratively. Perhaps preventive action could be taken in this area. I'm curious to hear what the motives were. I'm especially glad to hear that no one was hurt. I am even more pleased to hear that people are dealing with this in a very positive way and are able to deal with it. Such an incident often triggers spontaneous strikes due to working conditions. It is already very positive that it can be dealt with and placed in such a way that work and monitoring can continue. Afterwards, further research will show what was ultimately the reason, and we will find out about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic162x.u37	Minister, the issue of executive filling, both in the judiciary and in the public prosecutor's office, has long been a topical issue in the justice system. It seems to me that you've got new ways to fill the ranks. The College of the Public Prosecutor's Office met recently and found a large difference between the filling of the seat and the public prosecutor's office. Indeed, the Public Prosecutor's Office seems to be in deficit compared to the headquarters. Moreover, the occupancy rate differs significantly between the regions: it is currently 91.42 % in Flanders, 86.06 % in Brussels and 82.89 % in Wallonia. We hope that, thanks to these new means, this difference will be rectified. However, it seems that your plans for distribution are still in opposition to the public prosecutor's office and to Brussels and Wallonia, which we are contesting, as well as to the public prosecutor's office. Indeed, in view of the proposal to recruit against the Public Prosecutor's Office (1/3-2/3) and the largest number of Dutch-speaking trainees, the disparities between Flanders, Brussels and Wallonia would be even greater. The occupancy rate with the new appointments would be 98.84 % in Flanders, 88.48 % in Brussels and 86.84 % in Wallonia. The overall occupancy rate of the Public Prosecutor's Office would still be 4% lower than the level of the judiciary. Can you tell me what's going on? It also seems that you have the will to force the candidates appointed to the Public Prosecutor's Office to remain in the Public Prosecutor's Office for at least five years after their appointment and to stop allowing the direct link between the judicial internship and the seat, which does not fail to interpelle. Minister, have you been aware of the advice and concrete proposals of the College of Public Prosecutions concerning the allocation of new budgetary appropriations? What is your welcome to these proposals? What do you intend to do to reduce or even reverse the Community imbalance? Do you confirm the will to force each of the candidates to go through the Public Prosecutor's Office for at least five years? Do you not think that there is a risk of a shortage at headquarters that would add to the difficulty of recruitment that already exists in the prosecution service?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic162x.u38	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have obviously inherited a situation. We are trying to manage this legacy in the most balanced way with the resources we have in view of the budget shortage. This brings me to the question of the imbalance between the prosecutor's office and the seat. As you said, the framework should be allocated, at a rate of 1/3-2/3, in budgetary terms. There are many reasons for this imbalance. In particular, at the time of the vacation at the seat, the judges of the Public Prosecutor's Office apply for office. As the profile of these candidates is generally very good, they are usually appointed to headquarters. Catching up on the existing backlog and returning to a 1/3-2/3 report is one of my ambitions, as I announced to both Colleges. Unfortunately, this cannot be done at once. For the time being, we do not have enough judicial trainees to apply. We must therefore proceed gradually. This is, in any case, the course of action I have chosen, a course of action with which, moreover, the two Colleges are more in agreement. However, I cannot perform a miracle; neither can they. With regard to the question of the disproportion between filling rates in Wallonia and Flanders, this is true in the case of the public prosecutor's office. This is not obvious, in particular because there are fewer judicial trainees available on the French-speaking side than on the Dutch-speaking side. I will endeavour to launch procedures for the recruitment of judicial interns as soon as possible so that in the near future I can correct this imbalance which you were talking about. While taking into account the legal and regulatory requirements, procedures, ongoing commitments and planned departures in the coming years, I have left to the Colleges the choice of allocating the resources by instance and by type of staff to be recruited – the paramount criterion being their real needs to ensure their proper functioning. Their priorities are mine, in the context of this report 1/3-2/3. They know that. Once again, we are, in a way, handicapped by the number of judicial interns currently available. Again, in keeping with legal constraints and notwithstanding linguistic or regional differences, the poorest services should, in my opinion, and I have communicated them to the Colleges, be given priority. In addition to these budget allocations, suggestions are being discussed, both with the College of Public Prosecutions and with the College of Courts and Courts, in order to preserve their interests and particularities. In this regard, it should also be noted that, in most cases, access to the judiciary from the public prosecutor's office is through judicial training. Neither the prosecutor's office nor the seat can be harmed by this reality. This is why different initiatives from all the relevant bodies are being considered and will be presented to you in due course. I ask you to give me time to develop them together with the first interested ones. Indeed, you can be convinced that the balance between the two Colleges, the seat and the parquet, is close to my heart and that I will make every effort to achieve it. In any case, I am trying to make the Colleges more accountable and to make them accustomed to a budgetary approach, so that they themselves are asked to come with priorities. I hope to be able to post the vacancies in the coming weeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic162x.u39	Minister, if I understand correctly, you are inheriting a situation and, because of the financial resources at your disposal, do not intend to increase the disparity between the seat and the public ministry and the disparities between the three regions of the country. You say you have legal and regulatory constraints, but laws are made to be amended from time to time. In fact, you have a lot of ambition in this area. Consideration should be given to whether legal or regulatory adjustments should not be made in order to restore a certain balance. Moreover, you do not camp on your positions and continue the dialogue with the Colleges to present us with a more comprehensive solution. I will, of course, await the conclusion of this dialogue before giving my overall assessment.
