ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-30-54-plenair-ip043x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-30-54-plenair-ip043x.u2	The President [[in front of the assembly standing]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-30-54-plenair-ip043x.u3	[[for the standing meeting]] Colleagues, a hundred years ago the so-called Armenian genocide broke out. More than one million Armenians died as a result of deportations, famines and massacres. A hundred years after these events, the memory remains present. In the Conference of Presidents yesterday, we agreed to commemorate this tragic hundredth anniversary with due silence. We have a moral duty to remember this. History must not repeat itself; we must work on this every day by continuing to work together for peace and justice. Let us observe the silence as a reminder.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-30-54-plenair-ip043x.u4	[[for the standing meeting]] The President [[in front of the assembly standing]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, on 2 April, Minister of State Robert Stevaert died in Hasselt, at the age of 60. Steve Stevaert was born on 12 April 1954 in Limburgse Rijkhoven, as the son of a soldier and a housewife. After his studies at the Higher Institute for Tourism, Hotels and Food in Hasselt, he made a career in the catering industry, in particular as the owner of a number of successful youth cafés. His affection with the interests and needs of the common man quickly led him to political commitment. For the then SP he became a provincial council member in Limburg in 1983 and in 1989 city council member in Hasselt. From 1989 to 1994 he was a deputy of the province of Limburg, responsible for youth and environmental issues, two areas which were close to his heart from the outset. As chairman of the Limburg intercommunal electricity company Interelectrica, he asked for advice from Greenpeace consultants, which was very unusual at the time, and caused a lot of dust to blow up inside and outside his party. On 1 January 1995, Steve Stevaert became the first socialist mayor of Hasselt. In this function, too, it gives priority to the environmental issue. By introducing free public transport – a measure that is well known to him both in Belgium and abroad – he managed to decongest the city centre and its surroundings and to make the development of a third ring around Hasselt superfluous. On 21 May 1995, only a few months after he took office as mayor of Hasselt, Steve Stevaert was elected a member of the Flemish Parliament. In his capacity as Flemish Member of Parliament, he devoted himself tirelessly to the environment, spatial planning and public transport. In September 1998, Steve Stevaert was Deputy Minister President of the Flemish Government and Minister of Public Works, Transport and Land Use Planning, replacing Luc Van den Bossche, who became Federal Minister of the Interior after Louis Tobback's resignation. By its firm attitude towards serious breaches of the urban planning rules, it puts an end to the long-standing policy of tolerance in the area of regional planning in Flanders. From June 1999 to March 2003, Stevaert, in the Dewael government, Deputy Prime Minister of the Flemish Government, remained responsible for Mobility, Public Works and Energy. His passage in the Flemish government did not go unnoticed: he made furore with the abolition of the viewing and listening money and the free public transport for 65-plussers. It gives him the nickname "Steve Stunt". Stevaert must also be remembered when the Minister for Mobility made priority of road safety and the approach to the so-called "black points' on the road network. In 2003 he resigned as minister to succeed Patrick Janssens as party chairman. The federal elections of that year meant the biggest victory of the past 15 years for the Flemish socialists. Stevaert got a personal sample score. It was the time of the teletubbies, of the cartel sp.a-SPIRIT and Stevaert was elected by various media several times as the most popular politician in Flanders. "Socialism will be cozy or will not be so, was one of his slogans. After the 2003 elections, Steve Stevaert no longer took up a ministerial portfolio. He remained a member of the Flemish Parliament, but was mainly concerned with the modernisation and feminisation of his party. After the 2004 election, which he did not win, Steve Stevaert announced his departure from national politics to become governor of the province of Limburg. In this capacity, he also plays a pioneering role by promoting close collaboration between the provinces of Limburg Belgium and the Netherlands, by working towards the creation of the ‘Alberthaven' and more probably by constantly promoting a socially responsible entrepreneurial spirit among Limburger entrepreneurs. In June 2009, Steve Stevaert resigned as provincial governor. He later held various positions in companies. Starting in 2010, he became chairman of the supervisory board of the Dinh Vu Industrial Zone project in the North Vietnamese port city of Haiphong, a petrochemical center to which several large Belgian companies collaborate. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Steve Stevaert was a handy and intelligent politician, a professional who never acted unthinkingly. However, he never hesitated to think out of the box in his constant effort to move beacons. All that made him a remarkable personality, and that's how we'll always remember him. In the name of the Chamber, I have expressed our sincere condolences to his wife and his family.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-30-54-plenair-ip043x.u5	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, four weeks ago, we were shocked by news reports that nobody failed to testify to. 2 April 2015 became a sad day for our country for many reasons. The sudden and premature death of Steve Stevaert has touched us all. It is a personal tragedy for all concerned and a great loss to the Belgian political world. The government wants today to pay tribute to Steve Stevaert's political legacy. We pay tribute to a politician who learned to think national politics out of the box. He changed the way we communicate with people. When each of us today pays so much attention to direct communication with the citizen, Steve Stevaert is responsible for this. Steve Stevaert spoke not of the people, but of the people. Steve Stevaert has also given his province a boost. With a lot of enthusiasm and even more ambition, he has given Limburg once again pride. His rise as a politician, first in Hasselt, then in Limburg and then on the national stage coincided with the Limburg revival after the closure of the mines. Steve Stevaert has shaped the famous Limburg feeling. He brought Limburg to Brussels and Brussels to Limburg. Steve Stevaert has done great service to his party, his province and his country. In 2004 he was rightly given the title of Minister of State. More than a man with an honorary title, we will remember him as a man with a natural charisma and a charming joviality. In the name of the government, I offer our deepest condolences to his neighbors. We wish them much strength and tranquillity during this difficult period.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-30-54-plenair-ip043x.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that the silence be observed in commemoration of the late Minister of State.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-30-54-plenair-ip043x.u7	[[for the standing meeting]] The President [[in front of the assembly standing]] Colleagues, Mr. Robert Hendrick, an honorary member of the House, died on Monday, April 20, at the age of 73 on Dion-le-Mont. Born in Verviers, he first took a computer training course in Liège and practiced this profession for a few years before specializing in the promotion of sales for an American company based in Belgium. He then worked in England for two years for a hotel company. In 1973 he returned to Belgium and settled as a catering entrepreneur in Brussels. In view of the deterioration of the economic situation, he decided to launch himself into politics and, at the end of 1977, set up the Centre for Democratic Action. In May 1978, the centre turned into a new political party called UDRT-RAD – Democratic Union for Respect for Work or Respect for Arbeid in Democracy – with the support of the General Federation of Self-Employed Workers, an organization that strongly opposed the policy in our country towards the self-employed. This party will have up to four parliamentarians in 1981. Robert Hendrick was a member of this assembly from 1978 to 1987. In all these years, he was not only a fervent advocate of tax reform, but also stressed the need for a reform of social security and the equally necessary limitation of the role of public authorities and public expenditure. With brio and passion, he defended his views. He wrote many opinion papers for numerous newspapers, both French and Dutch. In 1987 he decided not to run and return to the base, to revive his party and reformulate its objectives. After leaving our House and abandoning politics at national level a few years later, our former colleague takes the lead of an SME and moves to Walloon Brabant. Until his death, Robert Hendrick continued to be interested in communal politics. It was there, as he himself said, that he could act fully for his commune and his region. On behalf of the House, I presented our deepest condolences to his family.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-30-54-plenair-ip043x.u8	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the government shares your condolences on the death of Honorary Chamberlain Robert Hendrick. Robert Hendrick was a willing and passionate politician. A man who ardently defended his values. With the Democratic Union for Respect for Work, he wrote a unique and own chapter in our parliamentary history. A political candle that burned briefly but heavily. He was one of the first to put ultraliberal ideas on the political agenda, adding a dimension to our national policies. After his career as a Member of Parliament, he remained politically active at local level. In 2012 he joined the municipal elections in his municipality. More and more his attention shifted from ultraliberal thinking to defending people's living environment and quality of life. The government wishes to express its condolences to Robert Hendrick's neighbors. We wish them much strength in these difficult times.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-30-54-plenair-ip043x.u9	Mr Vice Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, let us observe a minute's silence to commemorate the late colleague, honorary member of this Chamber.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-30-54-plenair-ip043x.u10	Mr President, Deputy Prime Minister, yesterday our Prime Minister met his two fellow Prime Ministers from the Netherlands and Luxembourg. He has proposed with them a very ambitious action plan for jobs and growth. There is no other way, with liberals leading both in Belgium, the Netherlands and Luxembourg. If we can believe yesterday's polls, perhaps this will soon be the case in Wallonia. The Benelux seems to be an idea from the past. It was founded in 1944 and became a full-fledged economic union in 1958. Today, however, it is more topical than ever. The Benelux countries together constitute a market of 28 million consumers and a common economy of about one trillion euros. In this way, for example, we are equal to a country like South Korea. The European Union's internal market has surpassed the Benelux countries in terms of political importance. However, the Benelux countries can also be a pioneer of better integration within Europe. I am very pleased to hear that barriers to retailing will be removed and that e-commerce and digital agendas will be used. I am thinking, among other things, of the many companies that have established themselves near the Belgian border in the Netherlands. There is a huge economic potential for which we in Belgium must not miss the boat. The decisions of the 2014 social Benelux summit were reaffirmed yesterday. We are working together to fight together against social fraud and social dumping. I know that Secretary of State Tommelein is working on this as a fervent Benelux supporter. The three countries also want to organise a joint trade mission, which seems to me to be a sensible idea, especially now that there is a major trade agreement with the United States. We must also state that the Benelux is a region where it is good to undertake, as a logistical and commercial gateway to Europe. Minister, in the context of yesterday's Benelux summit, I have two specific questions. Firstly, can you clarify how the results of the Benelux Summit will be further translated into policy and into the field? Secondly, will the government carry out these consultations regularly and perhaps more frequently, including in the course of the forthcoming Luxembourg and Dutch Presidency of the European Union?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-30-54-plenair-ip043x.u11	Mr President, Mr Vandenput, the annual Benelux Summit took place yesterday, 29 April, in the presence of the three prime ministers. Belgium will take up the presidency in 2015. The Benelux countries wish to continue their role as a catalyst for European integration within the Union of 28 and as an operational platform to address cross-border challenges effectively and effectively. The Benelux is in fact a laboratory and an incentive for greater integration. We have reaffirmed our cooperation, both within the Benelux countries and within the European Union. In reply to your question, I can say that we will continue with new meetings in this format. The three prime ministers have signed a joint policy statement entitled "A Benelux Action Plan for Jobs and Growth'. In fact, it is about strengthening the internal market. This declaration contains a list of concrete projects on which we want to cooperate more closely. The introduction of this road map was entrusted to the Secretariat-General of the Benelux. In concrete terms, it concerns the creation of an internal market of 28.5 million consumers and the strengthening of the basis for companies to enter the European and world markets. All these measures are designed to facilitate the work of the self-employed and SMEs in particular. These include the following points. Firstly, we are going to work more closely together to promote e-commerce and the digital agenda. Secondly, we want to improve the coordination of VAT and strengthen the cross-border exchange of information. Thirdly, we want to attach importance to the development of regional cooperation in the field of energy in order to pave the way for a European internal energy market. We also reaffirmed the conclusions of the 2014 Benelux Social Summit and discussed the importance of combating social fraud and social dumping. I will not list any topical issues relating to terrorism, radicalisation and many other international issues, Mr President. In conclusion, I would like to say that the possibility of economic meetings in Benelux format has been discussed. Benelux foreign trade missions are also an objective. As regards your assembly, Mr President, a meeting with the Benelux Parliament was also held. During the meeting, President Maya Detiège informed Parliament's position and ambition on the Benelux process. This happened in the presence of the King at a later meeting with the three prime ministers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-30-54-plenair-ip043x.u12	Mr Deputy Prime Minister, I am glad that we are so in agreement with our Dutch and Luxembourg colleagues and that you call the Benelux a laboratory for the development of certain issues. However, we should also be ambitious. Perhaps we should also think in that laboratory about the possibility of taking the lead in the Juncker plan to put forward proposals together rather than dealing with this country on a country-by-country basis. In Belgium, we, especially the liberals, think that we should work together for the growth of the economy and jobs. That is what we want to see today and in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-30-54-plenair-ip043x.u13	Mr President, Minister, as we all know, there has been a serious earthquake in Nepal. This is an incredible drama whose apocalyptic images come to us. This earthquake of 7.8 magnitude on the Richter scale is the worst that this country has known so far and replicas have followed, as far as Bangladesh or India. This disaster has obviously caused countless human and material losses. There are thousands of victims to date and, unfortunately, the record increases as the hours and days pass. Relief operations are in progress and continue. The ongoing international solidarity is strong. I would also like to acknowledge the reactivity of our country, particularly through its B-FAST structure, since a multi-departmental and multidisciplinary team could be sent there. Despite the chaotic logistical situation on the spot, we know that today it has finally reached Nepal. This response is essential, but it concerns the short term. It is obvious that we cannot limit ourselves to this intervention. It will be necessary to consider how to participate in the reconstruction of the country tomorrow. Minister, what information do you have in relation to the situation on the ground, whether human or material? Can you tell us more about the assistance provided by B-FAST? How is our team deployed? Indeed, much has been said about the difficulties encountered. That is why I would like you to provide me with information on the nature, composition and duration of the mission of B-FAST. What was the coordination between the various departments when it was deployed? How is international aid coordinated and intervention, particularly at European level? Finally, we know that Belgian NGOs have also taken action and made a call for funds. MSF Belgium is already on site. What will be our financial intervention in the context of humanitarian assistance? What is the situation of our nationals on the spot?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-30-54-plenair-ip043x.u14	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, like you, I was shocked by the first images from Nepal. It is the biggest earthquake in years, for the time being there are probably about 10 000 deaths and several thousands of victims. The needs are still high and, fortunately, the international community has come to the aid of our country. And there's still a lot of needs. The UN is asking for EUR 375 million, for tents, sanitary facilities, drinking water and sewage systems to combat cholera, there must be health care. Minister, what is our country going to do more than send B-FAST? My second series of questions concerns B-FAST. I have always been a great defender of what B-FAST is doing. We know that it is very difficult to work in this type of emergency and we can say that B-FAST has worked very well so far. However, Minister, our group has questions about the way in which the intervention in Nepal took place. I would ask you to give us a written report with a timeline from the earthquake until today, because we regret to note that five days after the earthquake, according to the latest information we have, our team in Gorkha has still not taken action. We would like to have an explanation on that whole timeline for that fact. I would also like you to give me a detailed report on the following. At the planning committee prior to the coordination board, experts proposed not only sending search and rescue capacity but also a field hospital. Why did the coordination council, whose president is a representative of your cabinet and who bears the responsibility, ultimately decide not to send that field hospital along with it? Had this field hospital been in our capacity, we should not have waited so long for a landing in Kathmandu and we could have done something useful for the hundreds of thousands of Nepalese who are asking for help.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-30-54-plenair-ip043x.u15	Mr President, Minister, a great deal has already been legitimately said. When such an event occurs, it is necessary to intervene quickly. Our country, with the intervention of B-FAST, works best to provide this assistance. People from my region have had to be repatriated from the most devastated areas, which is one of the reasons why some interventions cannot take place as quickly as some people imagine. Mr Minister, we are still without news of 7 of the 129 Belgian nationals who are still in Nepal. Has your department received any information about the possibility of locating them? As a result of the earthquake, many roads were obviously destroyed. I also know that international aid coordination could speed up the process. Have you considered using the infrastructure of other countries – for example, France – for transport and repatriation?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-30-54-plenair-ip043x.u16	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the earthquake that has hit Nepal has already caused enormous casualties and we have no idea how many more will follow. On behalf of the N-VA Group, I would like to express our condolences and our support for all the families of the victims and also for the Nepalese community in our country. The rescue works are in full swing. It is very difficult to take stock of the situation. There are still many places that could not be reached. The disaster is very great and in a number of villages that have just been wiped off the map no help has yet been received. We can see that aid has started very quickly. We, too, sent a team. The B-FAST team has left with an urban search and rescue team, which will be looking for survivors of the earthquake. We note today that our team has not been able to take action today and that it has not yet been given the opportunity to make its contribution to the aid. Mr Minister, let me be clear, our group is convinced that it is very important that we take part in this type of action and believes that the people of B-FAST are doing a very important and commendable job, but we have some questions about the decision to send this team. What needs did Nepal pass on at the time of the earthquake? In what way did the consultation take place to decide to send an urban search and rescue team? How did the international coordination of emergency aid go and how did it go?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-30-54-plenair-ip043x.u17	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to say that it was a real shock to see the images of the disaster in Nepal. I would like here, like all members of the Assembly, first of all to express our condolences to the families of the victims and our sympathy for those who are suffering on the ground today, who sometimes have no news of their loved ones, whether they are Nepalese families or other countries. The earthquake of 25 April caused considerable damage to infrastructure and housing in Nepal. The European Centre for the Coordination of Emergency Aid already speaks of more than 5 000 dead and at least 10 000 injured. The situation on the ground was catastrophic; however, Nepal's civil protection and relief teams, as well as the rescue teams and other means provided by the international community, were doing their utmost to save lives and restore essential infrastructure networks. Belgium, via B-FAST, deployed a team. This team has, beyond its search and rescue capabilities, equipment for the rehabilitation of essential infrastructure, telecommunications expertise, medical assistance and international coordination capacity. In addition to its key function, the team can therefore carry out missions complementary to the work of Nepali first aid workers in coordination with international aid organizations. The team is composed of 42 people. It was sent as early as 26 April and will remain, this is the initial decision, in the disaster zone for a period of ten days. B-FAST is a federal government coordination structure that brings together the Prime Minister, Foreign Affairs, the Interior, Defence, Public Health, Development Cooperation and the Budget. In addition to volunteers and intervention modules, B-FAST organizes itself around the coordination council supported by a planning committee. The competent ministers and their administrations shall be represented on the Council and the Committee. When dealing with an operation, the Committee shall give its opinion to the Council on the criteria and procedures for intervention, based on an expert analysis of the situation in the disaster zone and the capabilities that B-FAST can mobilise. The coordinating board then considers the opinion and approves or does not approve the action proposed by the committee. In principle, this decision-making mechanism takes no more than 12 hours. It is this mechanism that we launched on Saturday with meetings at 7 p.m. following the request of the Nepalese government. The council and the committee are college bodies. The decision-making process is therefore based on consensus. International aid in Nepal is coordinated by UN OCHA, the United Nations Agency for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs, including humanitarian interventions and emergency aid. The European Union has a civil protection mechanism which can be used as a humanitarian emergency aid tool outside the European Union and coordinates the initiatives of the Member States. I can also inform you about possible financial assistance alongside B-FAST. UN OCHA is a recognised partner of Belgian Development Cooperation and receives important funding annually. There are also the flexible funds of the United Nations and the World Bank. This mode of intervention may be less visible, but it is just as important as emergency humanitarian aid such as B-FAST. My colleague from Development Cooperation, Alexander De Croo, will make some proposals to send specific help from Belgium. As soon as the earthquake was announced, on Saturday 25 April, the Foreign Affairs Crisis Centre was opened in order to respond to the numerous telephone calls. The agents of the crisis centre, joined by volunteers from the administration, recorded in a database all the information concerning the citizens present in Nepal, indicating those for whom we could be reassured and those for whom we were without news. Quickly, a little more than a hundred and, gradually, more than 200 Belgians were located. About 20 remained in the first few days, which were still unattainable. Yes, Mrs.Jadin, last night we were still without news of our compatriots. At the moment, I can confirm to you that we are still without news from 4 of our compatriots. Identification continues. The crisis centre will remain open as long as necessary until our compatriots can be located. In concrete terms, the assistance provided to Belgian nationals is organised in various ways. At the Foreign Affairs Crisis Centre, they are provided with listening and the guarantee is given that every effort is made to help them locate their loved ones. Information is provided on the possibility of return. Some, however, were already able to be evacuated by the Belgian Airbus on Tuesday 28 April, Belgians but also Europeans, a whole series of nationalities returned this morning thanks to this Defence aircraft. Locally, assistance is provided mainly by the Honorary Consul in Kathmandu, supported by the Embassy in Delhi, whose jurisdiction extends to Nepal. In addition, the first embassy secretary in Delhi, present in Nepal during the earthquake, remained in Kathmandu to support the Honorary Consul. Together they coordinate the gathering of our compatriots and provide consular and/or logistical assistance. Their telephone numbers are systematically communicated to Belgians present in the country. I conclude, Mr. President. I am, of course, at the disposal of my colleagues in Parliament to give all the details of this operation. I will report on the decisions we have taken and the possible actions of B-FAST. B-FAST is currently working on the ground. It wasn't that easy to go to Delhi first and then Kathmandu. We are trying to react as quickly as possible. I must say that I would like to thank all the volunteers and actors of B-FAST. I understand the possible criticism of the organisation B-FAST. This is perhaps one of the most important actions that can help many people in Nepal. I'm at your disposal to give you all the details you can. I just want to say here that, at Nepal's request, the government decided to send B-FAST. I am proud of the action of all the volunteers and actors of B-FAST.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-30-54-plenair-ip043x.u18	Minister, thank you. I have no doubt that we will have the opportunity to discuss this issue in more detail in committee. I would also like to commend the work done by B-FAST, even if there are elements that we may need to discuss again. Above all, I hope that we will have some rejoicing news about our nationals on the spot. However, we will have to talk again about the implementation of EU-FAST, which could be a response to the problems we have encountered. We will also have to talk about long-term aid. Today, we are making a contribution in the very short term, but tomorrow it will be necessary to rebuild and ensure that Nepal can cope with such earthquakes if they are to happen again.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-30-54-plenair-ip043x.u19	Mr President, on behalf of my group, I would also like to pay tribute to the B-FAST staff for their efforts and actions in the past and also for the actions they are currently taking in Nepal. The intervention in Nepal also includes an assignment. The mission is politically determined and falls under the responsibility of the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I did not receive an answer to my question as to why the question of experts in the planning committee to send a field hospital along with rescue and search was rejected in the coordination council meeting under the responsibility of the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I believe that the Nepalese are entitled to well-organised international aid. I am sorry to note that the Belgian team has still not intervened five days after the event. Mr Minister, my question is why. Who will take responsibility for the fact that we cannot now give the necessary medical aid to the Nepalese?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-30-54-plenair-ip043x.u20	Mr President, the minister has been very clear. The action that has been taken and will be continued in the next few days by B-FAST is to be welcomed. There is also a need to honour and appreciate the means that are being used. There will certainly be another opportunity to discuss these questions in committee. That's not a problem for me. I think, however, that we can also be somewhat positive when we talk about action such as those we have started here. Minister, I hear that we're still without news from our citizens. I also hear that coordination has been effective with regard to repatriations. Subsequently, as with the other tragedies we have experienced, particularly in Haiti, we will be discussing in committee the assistance we want to provide in the longer term, and I welcome it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-30-54-plenair-ip043x.u21	Minister, we in the committee look forward to your report on the B-FAST team mission, especially as it allows the government to carry out an evaluation. The N-VA Group considers it very important to do so. In such a situation there is always chaos, there is no other way, but if we hear that the director of Kathmandu airport said on Tuesday that he had no idea where the planes would come from, how many planes would arrive or when they would arrive, then it is absolutely necessary to look at it afterwards. The Nepalese people are the biggest victims, but so are the members of B-FAST who have left there to offer help, but have been waiting for that opportunity for a few days now.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-30-54-plenair-ip043x.u22	Mr President, Deputy Prime Minister, tomorrow we are celebrating Labour Day, an important day for us. It is a real holiday for us, and I think this applies to all groups. Labour must be celebrated. Labour is important, is something beautiful and valuable, can make people stronger and push our society forward. So live labor! Labour, however, is not a party for everyone. For many workers in this country there is a real problem of stress and burn-out. This is a problem which our party and our group, through our party chairman this morning but also here in Parliament, want to put on the agenda. Labour can, must be a party for everyone. Some figures to illustrate the problem. It's not a marginal problem. Recent research has shown that two thirds of our country's workers face problematic stress in the workplace. Before, that was half of it. So the problem is getting bigger. It's a serious problem. It is not a story of an employee who has to perform an extra hour, an extra busy week or month. One in five employees, 20% of all people working in this country, face burn-out during his career and thus illness. It costs money. That's not good for our companies either. Belgium is the frontrunner on absenteeism. So we have to do something about that. On the eve of 1 May, that is our message, that is our outstretched hand, Minister. I am not going to talk today about all of this government's savings measures, about how you make people's lives even more difficult. I'm deliberately not gonna do that today. I do not expect you to say today: 'I will implement these ten measures from tomorrow.' I expect you to make a very clear commitment, that is the question of our group, that is the question of our party. I expect a commitment to work together with our social partners, with Mr Muyters and his Walloon colleague, on a real action plan on stress and burn-out. Labour must be a feast, Mr Deputy Prime Minister, let us work on it together. I hope you will accept that outstretched hand with both hands today. I think this would be a logical and good thing.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-30-54-plenair-ip043x.u23	Mr President, Mr Deputy Prime Minister, over the past few weeks and months you have had to take a number of difficult measures with this government to create more jobs and encourage people to work longer. However, the people themselves are mainly concerned with that longer working. Some people see that perfectly. Research teaches us that 56 % likes that. However, a large proportion also experience bottlenecks and experience longer working as a problem. The biggest bottleneck, Mr Calvo, is indeed stress at work and the lack of balance between private and work. If we want people to stay longer in work effectively, we must ensure that it is possible for the 44% of people who are currently struggling to do so in the future to stay longer on the job. In the coalition agreement, we have made a very conscious and very strong effort to do so, and we will continue to do so, that the ambition of the government of workable work is as great a challenge for us as it is to create jobs. If we ask people to work a little longer, if we ask for efforts to keep our pensions and our social security affordable, we must ensure that longer work is possible for them. That is why our group is calling for this part of the coalition agreement to be dealt with as a matter of urgency. That part should also be implemented. We must commit ourselves to the people in order to create a framework that will make it possible to work longer. Minister, what course will you take to make the commitment of workable work with the social partners a reality?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-30-54-plenair-ip043x.u24	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is true that we are asking a great deal of the workers, including that they are working longer. However, that is a fair question, because this is a way of keeping social security affordable. The federal government has made important decisions on this matter in recent months. It is essential that we ensure that the work is further adapted and that it is workable. Mr Calvo and Mr Vercamer, I share your concern that we should get our hands on the team and take action with concrete measures in this area. I would like to stress that we have already done a great deal. The previous governments have also taken initiatives. I refer to the National Strategy Plan on Well-being with the Return to Work programme, established in consultation with the social partners. We have also adapted the time-credit and taken measures for the carers. Many initiatives have already been taken to achieve workable work. I very much appreciate the input of the social partners, but I would also like to call on both colleagues to work intensively on the solutions and to develop a good instrument. One of these good instruments is the collective agreement 104, which requires an employment plan to be drawn up per company for older workers, among others. Other supportive measures should also be taken. The career account is also included in the government agreement. We have already put the problem of burn-out on the table with targeted campaigns. I believe that the social partners play a very important role in this. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I shall conclude. Workable work is rightly one of the top priorities of the next weeks and months where I will shoulder my shoulders with you. I am well aware that these are the powers of the regions. I hope that the social partners will also continue the work already done, on the basis of previous governments' decisions, so that we can ensure that our demand for longer work can be translated into action. I will take the necessary action, in agreement with the partners to be involved.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-30-54-plenair-ip043x.u25	Mr President, Mr Vice-Prime Minister, I hope that the answer you have just given is a very clear commitment and a clear answer to the question of our group and our party to work on an integrated action plan, not individual measures with a coherent policy on stress and burn-out. I hope that your answer means this and that your commitment on this issue is crystal clear. I would like to give you three more elements. It is said that longer work and older workers are a problem that is very close to our hearts. In fact, these governments' pension measures make older workers much more difficult on the labour market than before. But stress and burnout is something of all employees and of all age groups. Meanwhile, about two thirds of all employees suffer from it. So let us open the debate and start the work that is on the table. Finally, Mr Vice-Prime Minister, I will not end the list again. However, you have taken painful, drastic measures over the past few months. Try to evaluate them in the context of a broader strategy. Mr President, I will conclude. I have seen a Deputy Prime Minister who showed more openness than the Flemish Minister of Work, who still believes that the government is doing well. However, there is a problem. So let's grab that. Mr Vice Prime Minister, you will find an ally in our group. After all, the dossier is very important. On the eve of 1 May, on 1 May itself, but also 365 days a year, our group absolutely wants to keep the issue on the agenda and place it on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-30-54-plenair-ip043x.u26	Mr President, Minister, I would like to thank you for your reply, but above all for your commitment, in addition to the efforts we are calling for, to achieve the priority of workable work. You will find an ally in us. If I can make one specific suggestion in the context of the career account, then it is to make the next exercise of thought. Would it not be possible to transform some of the existing 82 extralegal benefits into levers, allowing people themselves to save time and pay for the moment when they consider it useful and necessary to slow down? So consider whether it is possible to develop such matters in the context of a career account. In any case, you will be able to expect proposals from us to make workable work more concrete.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-30-54-plenair-ip043x.u27	Minister, a few weeks ago in our hemisphere the debate on budgetary control was held, and in particular on the EUR 750 million invoice, which was suddenly transferred to the Länder by a gruesome financing law. Yesterday there was a meeting of the Consultative Committee. There too, this figure, EUR 750 million, was at the top of the agenda. Among other things, it was agreed in the Consultation Committee that the amount would be recalculated by the beginning of the next summer. The Flemish government swallows everything, it's on the hands of the federal government. As always, she is immediately prepared to save Belgium at any price. She has included most of that amount, EUR 400 million, without grumbles in her budgetary control. The Fleming will pay. On the French-speaking side, however, they refuse to make a similar effort. In Wallonia, this additional invoice is not taken into account in budgetary control, even after the meeting of the Consultative Committee. He hasn't changed that at all. Mr Minister, I read that the federal government is considering using federal buffers, which have been created to deal with unexpected setbacks, in case the Walloon Region and the French Community continue to refuse to pay their share. I'd like to hear from you if that's true. You can't just do that, can you? Do you think that's correct in relation to Flanders? That way, the Fleming would pay twice. So my question is very simple: will you really fill the budgetary gaps that Wallonia has dropped to the detriment of the Flemings?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-30-54-plenair-ip043x.u28	Mrs Pas, yesterday I attended the meeting of the Consultative Committee. I have the impression you were there. For the sake of clarity, I will explain to you what has actually happened, so that you are well informed about what has really been addressed and what has not. Questions to regional governments must be put to you in other Parliaments. It's not for me to answer that. Yesterday, the Consultative Committee discussed, among other things, the Stability Programme. The result is that the Stability Programme can be handed over to the European Commission today, so that it is submitted in time. 30 april was immers de deadline. At yesterday's meeting, the Consultation Committee took note of the Stability Pact, which was proposed. The Pact provides for a structural budget balance for joint government in 2018 and a structural budget balance by 2018 for all individual budget paths of each entity. In addition, the Consultation Committee agreed that consultations on the methodology envisaged under the Royal Decree implementing Article 54 of the Special Law of 16 January 1989, the so-called Financing Act of the Communities and Regions, would continue as soon as possible. A date has been agreed for all those involved to sit around the table to discuss this. Federal Ministers of the Budget and Finance will also establish a procedure to promote the transfer of tax data under the Special Financing Act in an objective and transparent manner. This was discussed at the meeting of the Consultative Committee. All the other elements have not been dealt with and, as far as I am concerned, are not relevant either. I cannot therefore answer them because they were not discussed in the sitting.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-30-54-plenair-ip043x.u29	Mr Minister, discussions on the Stability Programme are continuing. For the European Commission, it does not matter who makes what effort, if the effort is made in total. However, I did not receive an answer to my question. What will you do if the Walloon Region and the French Community refuse to make their contribution? You'll discuss further. The aim is to achieve a clear division between the different entities. I read that in the Prime Minister's statement in the newspapers. You're free to believe that. You are free to believe in Sinterklaas and Santa Claus. However, I can only observe that previous attempts have led to nothing and have not been successful. You do not deny that the federal government would be prepared to help if Wallonia continues to refuse. That means the Fleming pays twice. Apparently, we live in two different countries. Wallonia is like a rock that can't be poached, dixit Magnette and dixit Demotte, and Flanders is apparently the horn of abundance, which always stands out. I have now received an answer from you, Mr Deputy Prime Minister. You yourself were Prime Minister until recently. How can a Flemish government, even led by a party that calls itself Flemish, reconcile its conscience with the idea that the Flemish should pay twice? I know it will probably be in vain, but I call on the fellow Members of the Flemish Government not to swallow everything.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-30-54-plenair-ip043x.u30	Mr President, Minister, in 2013, 40 000 domestic violence reports were made to the local police. I repeat, 40,000. That is a high figure and we also know that this is only a part, not the real number of domestic violence offences. In police statistics, that's a high figure. This high figure is due to the fact that the police have been working hard and persistently in the fight against domestic violence in recent years. This morning, however, we read in the newspaper that tackling domestic violence will no longer be a priority for the police. I was shocked and almost fell off my chair when I read that, because that means that all the good and sustained work of the past few years will gradually be watered down and the local police too will gradually shift its priorities. Some people, especially women, will again not know where to go. This is happening in the same week that your colleague from Equal Opportunities presented her list of priorities in the Committee on Social Emancipation. Thereupon the top is tackling violence, including domestic violence, against women. A week ago, we also heard Minister Vandeurzen in the Flemish Parliament reply that the fight against domestic violence should remain a priority. Mr. Secretary, what will it be now? Will you discuss this in the government and with the Länder?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-30-54-plenair-ip043x.u31	Mr President, Minister, equality between men and women is at the heart of our Constitution, at the heart of the evolution of our society. There is, of course, equality in law, but we know that, as far as equality is concerned, a huge amount of work is still to be done. Statistics on violence against women show that there is still a long way to go! Annually, 40,000 complaints are filed, and this is only the tip of the iceberg! Unfortunately, women are victims of verbal and physical violence on a daily basis. Today it is learned that violence against women would no longer be a criminal policy priority. Is that true? My colleague Fabienne Winckel has asked the Secretary of State at length about this. Minister, is this information accurate? Will security savings lead to a reduction in the protection of women, and thus to a reduction in the policy of equality between men and women? That would be unacceptable. But before I say it, I'm waiting for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-30-54-plenair-ip043x.u32	Mr.President, Minister, 162 people died in 2013 under the hands of a companion. Nearly 40,000 minutes have been issued by our police services. There is this apparent figure, but there is also the so-called black figure, which is not negligible, which is surrounded by the law of silence because these women fear to file a complaint. For example, one in four women said they had been sexually abused by their partner. Minister, when I presented your general policy note, I asked you why it did not include the fight against domestic violence as a priority. You told me that we could not put everything in the policy note but that it would come in more specific documents, such as the national security plan. Today, however, this priority is no longer included in this plan. I hope you don't confirm that. I think you're sending a very bad signal to the police. We know all the efforts that have been made for several years. I am thinking in particular of the "zero tolerance" circular. In fact, in the past, there was sometimes some lightness in dealing with these complaints on the basis that it was a matter of privacy and that, in doing so, it was not a matter for the police. Subsequently, a whole series of actions were carried out, which did not prevent the police from sometimes being deprived. We must therefore send them a real signal and let them know that this remains a government priority. Moreover, it appears that you have not put in place the plan to combat gender-based violence. A new plan must be published. A strong policy was developed during the previous legislature. I would like you to confirm that. In conclusion, I would like to draw attention to the fact that it is essential for this government to devote itself to equality between men and women, particularly in the fight against domestic violence.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-30-54-plenair-ip043x.u33	Mr President, Minister, we have all heard that tackling intra-family violence would no longer be a priority in the forthcoming National Security Plan. Intra-family violence is a broader concept than partner violence, I would like to emphasise that. Everyone knows, however, that this is a very important matter. The figure of 40 000 declarations per year has just been quoted. That's the number according to the press. However, when one looks at the crime statistics of the federal police, one finds that it is even about the double, with 82 000 facts, 27 000 of which were not recorded as a crime, but 55 000. In any case, it is an important matter. I can imagine that there is some concern in certain organisations. I am aware of that. However, I do not think that this concern should be overruled. I cannot imagine that the police, who have been following these matters closely for years and have achieved certain results, would now decide to leave that problem behind. I think the concern has been overwhelmed, but that is my personal opinion. I would like to hear that from the Minister's mouth. Is there any particular reason why the fight against intra-family violence is no longer a priority? Can you give us the assurance that there will be firm action on such facts in the future, so that people do not have to worry? Have any other priorities been added to the security plan?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-30-54-plenair-ip043x.u34	Minister, the fight against intra-family violence has already come a long way, both in our legislation and in our police and in the justice system. The legislation has been tightened in recent years and new means have been provided to protect victims of such violence. I am thinking, for example, of the ban on entering the family home or the temporary ban on housekeeping, as we now call it. We have approved that under Minister Onkelinx. The legislation has therefore been tightened for many years to tackle the phenomenon. Police put intra-family violence as a priority in its security plan since 2008. Justice, which is also an important link in it, continues systematically, organises thematic sessions on intrafamilial violence, which also have an important signal function and gives customized punishments. Despite the path that has already been taken, we are still not here. As mentioned by my fellow Members, there are at least one hundred reports of intra-family violence per day. So even today there are a hundred people who are the victims of this and report it. In addition to the victims, I would also like to mention the children here today. Intra-family violence often occurs in the presence of children, often suffering from trauma. We are still not here, because the victims are not always properly received by the police and not everywhere. In most cases, however, the approach is positive and good, for which I am grateful. We are still not here because the Justice Department does not make sufficient use of the resources at its disposal. I'll give you one digit. The parquet has the possibility to temporarily evict someone from the house in severe cases of intra-family violence. Well, according to the figure I have officially received, there are an average of 40 such removals on an annual basis. These 40 removals are against that high figure of 40 000 notifications per year. Hence the commotion on the coverage. Mr. Secretary, can you clarify the coverage? What exactly is this case? We have a National Security Plan. You must negotiate the Internal Security Framework Paper in cooperation with your colleagues from the other governments. What's the status? Is it not time to evaluate, in consultation with the competent colleagues, whether we can tackle the problems in the field better, in order to reduce the phenomenon?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-30-54-plenair-ip043x.u35	Minister, when I read the newspaper this morning, I choked on my coffee. Indeed, I read that the police would no longer regard the approach to intra-family violence as a priority, and that there are more than 40 000 police reports every year and 162 deaths from intra-family violence. Studies have shown that this is just the tip of the iceberg. 90% of the victims do not dare to take the step to the police, according to a study by the Institute for Equality between Women and Men. However, Minister, you reassured me when I asked you here on 12 March whether the fight against intra-family violence would remain a priority in the National Security Plan. You then confirmed that the National Security Plan 2016-2020 would retain as a priority focus. In addition, you rightly referred to the government agreement, which included intra-family violence as an important point of attention and as a priority. So you understand my concern, Minister, when I read in the newspaper this morning the statements of Mr Brabant, the Chairman of the Permanent Committee of Local Police, and of Mrs De Bolle, the Commissioner-General. In their view, the fight against cybercrime and radicalism should be the main priority. Of course, these are also important priorities, which no one denies. But these seem to me to be matters that should be dealt with by specialised teams at federal level, while combating intra-family violence should be included in the zonal security plans. It is therefore important that we include this in the next National Security Plan. Will you reassure me again, Minister, and keep this issue as a priority in the National Security Plan, so that it is included in most of the zonal security plans as a result of enlargement?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-30-54-plenair-ip043x.u36	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to outline the emotion that has arisen about the opinion of someone who represents the local police as an input into the development of a security plan. That opinion is as strong as all your opinions, as my opinion, as the opinion of the Regions and the opinion of the Communities. It's about opinions coming up. At the end of the concert round, politics will decide. So my message is to stay calm at first. It concerns the opinion of one person, who represents the local police, and who is also, of course, heard during the round of concerts, but fortunately not only. Let me be very clear. Domestic violence is, in the eyes of the government and myself, an extremely important issue that attracts our full attention. It is discussed, as Ms Lanjri said, in the government agreement in point 6.2.2. and is included in the new Code of Criminal Investigation. Secondly, with regard to setting priorities in the comprehensive security framework note and/or in the national security plan, I can confirm that no decision has yet been taken. Work on the UNDAF and the security plan is under way. Concertation is under way with all the actors in the security chain, including federated entities and local authorities, and certainly also the federal police and local police. The identification of priority phenomena to be included in both plans is therefore still premature. No decision has been taken at this time. Thirdly, a priority approach means that a new integrated and integrated approach is planned for new or specific important phenomena, including preventive, repressive and follow-up measures. This does not mean that nothing happens to what is not included on a priority list. Most facts are not a priority and the police are working on them daily. I am not saying that intra-family violence will not be a priority. I just want to highlight the importance of the priority nature of a fact. The previous plan included ten priorities. From a certain number of priorities, they are no longer priorities. If everything is thrown into a pile and prioritised, then there are no more priorities. This government is going to present a security plan with a limited number of priorities, but these will be real priorities. Preparations for the framework paper on integrated security and the National Security Plan are under way. However, I would like to make it clear that the framework paper is a government commitment to developing an integrated and comprehensive approach with preventive, repressive and follow-up measures for a number of priority phenomena. There is no doubt that this should be done in consultation with all actors in the security chain, including the Länder, local authorities and the Justice Department. The concert's going on. What's the point of concerting if I'm gonna tell you what it's gonna say? I don't want to say anything about that today. However, I refer to the government agreement which clearly states that the fight against intra-family violence is an important issue for the government. Both plans will be implemented under the joint direction of the Departments of Justice and the Interior. To this end, the Minister of Justice and I will respect the government agreement, but also the political statements of the federated entities and the consultation with them, as well as the security image being developed. Finally, I would like to say that my colleague, Secretary of State, Mr Sleurs, is working intensively on this issue. The new National Action Plan Gender-related Violence is in preparation and hopes to land with it by the summer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-30-54-plenair-ip043x.u37	Minister, you did not reassure me immediately in the second part of your reply. I heard Mrs De Bolle on the radio this afternoon and also what she said did not sound reassuring. I hope that there will be good consultation and that you will abide by the government agreement. Without saying that the other priorities are not important, the subject before us is a priority that affects people to the depths of their family situation and their humanity. This must remain a priority! I will continue to insist on this. Finally, Minister, you should be careful to express different opinions, otherwise you might still face domestic violence in the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-30-54-plenair-ip043x.u38	Mr. President, Minister, I worked on the issue of combating violence against women before I became a politician. As a student, I was already assisting these women who had found refuge in foster homes and who lived in hell at home. As has been said, I was at the initiative of the first national plan of action against violence against women. Together with Parliament, we have been constantly evolving not only in legislation but also in practice by allowing women victims of violence to be given priority in the event of separation when it comes to determining who could continue to live in the marital home, with the aim of enabling them to live there with their children. We have been working continuously with the public prosecutor's offices to ensure, for example, that women's appeals are not deaf. Remember a Christmas night in Antwerp. On that day, a woman called the police who didn't think it was useful to move around. This person died as a result of beatings by his spouse. Yes, it must continue to be said that this is a priority! Yes, this fight must be included in the list of priorities! Otherwise, we will again find ourselves facing a refusal to intervene. We will therefore continue to fight for this issue to be one of the priorities in terms of criminal policy. It should not only be an advanced priority at the turn of a sentence. It must be included in the list of priorities of criminal policy. I take this opportunity to greet a well-known woman, Mrs Bourguignon, the wife of the former minister, Pierre Bourguignon, who had taken a circular including zero tolerance, whenever a complaint was filed by a woman following acts of violence. We will therefore follow this matter both at the federal level and at the level of the Communities and the Regions. Indeed, and fortunately, there is a need for concerted action at all levels in the area of criminal policy priorities. Madam Secretary of State for Equal Opportunities, I will also follow the initiatives you take within the framework of your competences. Combating violence against women must remain a priority in criminal policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-30-54-plenair-ip043x.u39	Minister, you said, "This will be a point of attention for me." This is not a point of attention but a priority! You fall behind the view of the Communities that you prefer to wait before making it a priority. As a political leader, you could tell us today, in this forum, that it was a priority and that you would do everything you could to make it part of the national security plan. You could say that without waiting for the opinion of the Regions because it falls within your sphere of competence to also develop this national security plan. It's not just a point of attention. Of course, it is difficult to juggle priorities. You say ten priorities. When we cut budgets, especially those of the police, so much so, it is clear that they cannot be forced, as you have often told me, to do more with less. Minister, today you are facing a problem of priorities over the budgets that you have revealed. Minister, I invite you to watch the film L'Emprise, which relates to a living situation. After the vision of this film, you'll never talk to us again about attention but about priority.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-30-54-plenair-ip043x.u40	Mr Minister, contrary to what other Members have said, you have reassured me. I am fully convinced that you will do what is necessary and what is necessary. Practice and theory are sometimes far apart. I do not want to go along with the discourse of some of my fellow Members, which summarises the matter as if there would be no more action against men who abuse women. That's too simple a suggestion. I refuse to go along with that. In the end, we condemn any form of violence. Ladies and gentlemen, you must analyse the figures carefully. I have told you that it is 82 000 declarations per year, according to the statistics of which there are 55 000 crimes. Well, of those 55 000 there are 21 000 psychic crimes. Apparently, that's forgotten here. What is also included is, for example, the refusal or failure to properly exercise visitation rights. For example, a father who is systematically unable to see his children must file a complaint with the police, but such complaints are systematically dismissed. It is therefore necessary to subpoena directly. Such matters also deserve our attention in the light of intra-family violence. Minister, it would be good if you would consult with your colleague from the Justice Department, if the law were to be amended, to provide for a visitation right to be linked to a penalty payment. This would mean much less work for the police and would contribute to a good image of justice. Furthermore, it would at least offer a perspective to all those who now have difficulty seeing their children and walking against the wall. From Parliament, we will help the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-30-54-plenair-ip043x.u41	Mr President, Minister, there can be no reduction in the focus on partner violence for my group either. Every victim is one too many. Once again, I would like to mention that the children are often witnesses of intra-family violence and suffer from trauma. You have replied that the concert is in full swing and you confirm that the focus on intra-family violence will certainly not be weakened. In addition to the plan you are working on, I would ask you to look at the practical side. If everyone participates in the conference round, then you can also pay attention to the bottlenecks in the field, such as police and judicial cooperation and the means to be used. The law also provides for certain means that are not used. I ask you to evaluate what can happen with this, so that the approach gets much better.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-30-54-plenair-ip043x.u42	You said, Minister, that the consultation is under way. Today, you don't want to do a preliminaries. What we read in the newspaper, you mention an opinion alongside many others. However, I would like to make the following point. With three deaths every week and more than one hundred reports every day to the police commissaries, intra-family violence is unfortunately still a daily reality. For our group, there is no alternative but to include the fight against it as a priority in the National Security Plan. We have no problem with you focusing on certain issues, because it is true that there cannot be a hundred priorities. However, the figures of intra-family violence are not to be proud of. Compared to the Netherlands, there is still a lot of work to be done here for everyone, including the Communities. We must work for good cooperation between the police, justice and aid services, to ensure that more people are prepared to complain and to ensure that we tackle this problem effectively. For us, the fight against intra-family violence, as stated in the coalition agreement, must be a priority. This priority should be reflected in the National Security Plan's priority list. In this way, we also give the local police zones the signal to include this in their plans.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-30-54-plenair-ip043x.u43	Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I am not going to recall here the history of the case which calls for this topical question, if it is not to point out that our government has found itself, from the outset, confronted with a major difficulty arising from the judgment of the Constitutional Court of 10 July 2014. This decision ended the preferential regime for operational officers of the integrated police, who, as of 10 July, were no longer able to retire at 54, 56 or 58 years of age, depending on the framework to which they belong. It may be noted that discussions have taken place between the unions and the government from the outset. Today, two elements hold our attention. The first is yesterday's adoption in the Social Affairs Committee of Minister Bacquelaine's draft. This project is important since it re-establishes a transitional provision which will allow any officer, who is under the conditions by 10 July 2015, to re-approve this preferential pension scheme. This is an important step. When this draft is adopted in plenary session, which I hope will not be delayed, we will obviously be able to bring good news to the police in the area of their end of career. The second point of attention is precisely the end-of-career regime since, after rather harsh and bitter discussions, you, Minister, met with the unions at the beginning of the week and did so with the Prime Minister. It's not nothing, it's already a strong political signal, a concrete signal. If I understood correctly, this meeting has already made it possible to lay down a basis for work. That's good news. What are the elements of exchange that you have had with the union representatives? What is the timetable for future meetings with the government and, finally, what has it already agreed to leave to the discretion of the National Pension Board?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-30-54-plenair-ip043x.u44	Mr President, Minister, like other public services, the police are directly affected by your government's decisions. Officials denounce measures that they consider unfeasible. Among other things, members of the integrated police are questioning the future of administrative and logistical cadres in direct connection with pension and career management. Indeed, you mentioned the path of an end-of-career diet with suitable work. A concept that can no longer be blurred, complex to implement for police areas and that raises the question of the future of logistics personnel made uncertain by your measures. If adapted work means less burdensome work and involves more administrative and less operational tasks in the field, this would mean that these missions are already in line with those carried out by the CALOGs. And if suitable work rhymes with loss of salary and operational status benefit, this is unacceptable to us. I would therefore like to hear from you, Minister, on the following issues. What exactly do you mean by adapted work? Will these officials be able to benefit from specific training in an area of competence which is not theirs? If so, how much would the budget be? Who's on whose charge? What is the fate of the CALOGs who will see their workload considerably reduced, or even more serious, in the affected areas? Have you measured the impact on their employment?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-30-54-plenair-ip043x.u45	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the draft text provides that suitable employment should be understood as "a statutory employment of the operational framework or administrative and logistical framework adapted to the profile and possibilities of the staff member concerned". Therefore, in addition to purely administrative and logistical functions, certain operational functions are not to be excluded, for example reception, neighbourhood, specific projects. There is no question of jeopardizing the position of agents and CALOGs, whether contractual or statutory. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, This has been repeated several times during the negotiations. You will easily understand that the police areas as well as the federal police will have to implement a new personnel management policy to take this development into account. A full-service database will be created and a national reassignment procedure will allow police officers to develop career extensions. If necessary, training in-house or organized at the level of certain police training institutions will be organized as part of their subsidiary tasks. With respect to funding, it is clear that if police officers work longer than originally planned, the pension fund will realize savings, which will be used to finance the local or federal areas that will provide this suitable employment. Mr Pivin, as far as pensions are concerned, the authority has responded to the request from the trade union organisations to be received. This was the case, by my own care, last Friday at the Interior Office with a continuation of the dialogue on Monday 27 April in the presence of the first. The issue is evolving and the meeting has been described on both sides as constructive. It made it possible to communicate some progress and to exchange clearly the different points of view. There was agreement on many points. The only position of the unions that is problematic is their wish to have a decision today on the whole end of their career. This is difficult, because in another place we have this debate about the global pension and also for the public sector. It complicates things. Contacts continue. A kern will take place next week and, subsequently, an adequate regulatory formulation, known as more refined, will be presented to the trade unions, as part of our will to come to a conclusion together on this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-30-54-plenair-ip043x.u46	Minister, I will be brief as you answer my question very fully. We all know here that police officers have a specific and difficult job. To ensure our safety, I believe that police officers need a secure framework for the exercise of their profession. I am grateful to you for understanding this and for adopting a method that will enable you to achieve this result.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-30-54-plenair-ip043x.u47	Mr President, Minister, I hear your arguments well, but my concerns remain with regard to the recruitment and future of the CALOGs, as well as the notion of suitable work in general, which, if you apply your measures, will simply move our local police stations into pre-retirement homes. It is certainly not a gift to be given to citizens. We want a lasting solution that takes into account all integrated police officers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-30-54-plenair-ip043x.u48	Mr. President, Minister, as of July 1, the third-party fee will apply to BIM patients and chronic patients. Some doctors who were dissatisfied with this decision showed up a few days ago. I may astonish some, but I understand some of the arguments put forward by these doctors. Thus, managing a double payment – the paying third party, which comes from the mutual, and the moderator ticket to be paid by the patient – is not always obvious. More seriously, there is a real risk that a two-speed medicine will develop. I link these two criticisms to something that seems even more fundamental to me. This is the number one problem in terms of health care: today, 900,000 people have, at least once, abandoned or postulated care at the general practitioner's because they did not have sufficient financial resources. The solution would be to provide for a generalised fee-paying third party and the removal of the moderator ticket. Clearly, this means that everyone could go to the general practitioner without bringing his wallet and, therefore, without having to pay. This claim is defended by "Medicine for the People". A campaign has been launched to obtain 10,000 signatures. For those who do not know, this is an initiative of the PTB, which goes back more than forty years. It takes the form of eleven medical homes that practice free medicine with more than 25 patients. This request is supported by professors from all Belgian medical schools. It is also a recommendation of the World Health Organization (WHO). In addition, I would point out that this situation prevails in 15 out of 27 countries in the European Union. Minister, would you not take advantage of the coming into force of this new third party paying on July 1 to generalize it, remove the moderator ticket and make medicine free for everyone?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-30-54-plenair-ip043x.u49	Mr President, Madam Minister, I will mention two dimensions in this case of the paying third party. The first one is technical. The decision to grant an automatic third-party payment to patients known as BIM, those with precarious status, was taken under the previous government at the June 2012 Council of Ministers and was voted in parliament in 2012. It was scheduled to enter into force on 1 January 2015 but was postponed to 1 July 2015. The condition negotiated between ministers and front line actors was that the MyCareNet system and the registration system should be effective and effective. Obviously, this is not yet the case. Minister, how is that possible? Can you give us any information? The other dimension is the social dimension. These patients must have access to front-line benefits without having to take out the money. Some of the medical claims are obviously unacceptable, but others are important. As I said, there is the technical side, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, the system in place would prohibit the granting of a third-party fee to a patient who is in conditions but who does not have his or her identity card. Another criticism relates to persons who are not in BIM conditions but for whom the paying third party should also be able to be granted. Minister, isn't it time to say that strengthening the front line is necessary for an effective public health policy? All international studies show this. Is it not time to expand the category of patients who are entitled to pay third parties and to consider that the first line is really the place where we need access to health care? At that time, doctors must be paid on a much more lump-sum basis by integrating time and remuneration for multidisciplinary work as well as for relational work with patients.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-30-54-plenair-ip043x.u50	Mr President, Mrs Gerkens, Mr Van Hees, the obligation of the paying third party for patients with preferential treatment comes into force on 1 July of this year for consultations with the general practitioner, as provided for in the government agreement and enshrined in the law of 19 December 2014. My services have heard the doctors' fears this week. I reasonably expect the results of the consultation within the National Medical-Mutualist Commission on a number of implementing rules for this regulation. These arrangements relate in particular to the reading of the electronic identity card. Should it be read whenever the patient sees the general practitioner or is it sufficient to read it when opening and extending the overall medical record (GMD) if the general practitioner is also the physician who holds the patient's GMD? In addition, it will be necessary to see how e-invoicing can come into effect and when. These discussions are ongoing. It will also be necessary to decide on the content and form of the supporting document to be issued to the patient in the application of the paying third party and in the case of electronic invoicing. This consultation is under way and I look forward to the results, respecting each other. I do not intend to take any initiatives other than those contained in the government agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-30-54-plenair-ip043x.u51	Minister, I can only take note of your answer, which is to say: the government agreement and nothing but the government agreement. This is unfortunate, because there is a real social problem of access to health care. I repeat that 900,000 patients postpone care at least once a year because they don't have the money to pay the doctor. Among the poorest, it is even more important: one in five people postponing health care. Do you know that Belgium is 20 years old at European level with regard to the financial accessibility of healthcare? One of the last countries in the ranking. What's crazy is that, in fact, it would cost very little to make the generalist totally free. The moderator's ticket for the generalist accounts for 170 million euros, barely 0.6% of the INAMI budget. Less than 1% of the INAMI budget would make it possible to make the generalist free for the entire population of Belgium. Madam Minister, in the end, you are in charge of the health of people in Belgium. Do I have to conclude from your answer that when you meet someone who has a problem with access to health care, we can send it to you and go and treat it personally, free of charge, because some doctors couldn't do it? I'm still warning you: there are 900,000 of them!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-30-54-plenair-ip043x.u52	Madam Minister, you are therefore waiting for the results of the National Medical-Mutualist Commission. But, crêbleu!, We have been waiting for technical solutions for some time. They were promised and planned since mid-2012. The doctors were heard on March 27 indicating that the device for reading ID cards was not appropriate. Today, we are still waiting for this opinion! At some point, it is necessary to be able to hospitate these bodies in order for them to deliver opinions within a shorter period of time. This is your prerogative as Minister of Public Health. I hear you don't want to extend the measure. Therefore, I tell you that patients who do not meet the strict conditions of BIM status will be put in difficulty, while doctors who know them and who have their overall medical record apply the paying third party, even if these people are deprived of that status, because they are experiencing difficulties. You will therefore prevent them from exercising this social practice of health.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-30-54-plenair-ip043x.u53	Madam Minister, yesterday the Court of Justice of the European Union delivered a judgment on the exclusion of homosexuals from blood donation in France and its compatibility with the European principle of non-discrimination based on sexual orientation. In Belgium, the system is identical. Men who have sex with other men are, for this reason alone, de facto excluded from the possibility of giving their blood. Through the Red Cross questionnaire, homosexuality is placed on the same footing as proven risk behaviours, i.e. behaviours that do not ensure the good health of the donor candidate. Madam Minister, I have already asked you about this in committee. You promised me that you would examine the conformity of our legislation with the judgment of the Court of Justice as soon as it was delivered. Since yesterday, you've been able to read about it. It may be noted that the permanent exclusion of blood donation has a legitimate objective of minimizing the risk of transmission of an infectious disease to the recipient, but it must be proportionate and justified on the basis of an examination of other less restrictive and discriminatory measures. The Court even proposes solutions: the quarantine of homosexual blood donations during the period when HIV cannot yet be detected, the modification of the questionnaire with questions more focused on the delay of the last sexual intercourse, the number of partners or the protected nature of the reports, and the temporary exclusion fixed according to the date of the last report. It appears that the only contact with the epidemiological situation is insufficient. The essential must not be to identify sexual orientation but to assess the level of risk that individual donors present because of their own sexual behaviour. This judgment therefore leads you to wonder whether, like the French Minister of Health, you will soon look at the adaptation of our legislation. Will you examine the solutions proposed by the Court? Will you ask the Red Cross to modify the questionnaire to better identify actual and non-presumptive risk behaviours? Has the Supreme Council of Health ruled on the conditions for a blood donation authorization for men who have sex with men?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-30-54-plenair-ip043x.u54	Mrs Caprasse, first of all, I must point out that, in my view, in transfusion medicine, the risks to patients receiving blood products must be reduced to an absolute minimum. Indeed, the European Court of Justice has stated in a decision that homosexual men can be excluded under the condition of blood donation and within the framework of a supposed discriminatory exclusion of these people in France. I will have this very recent decision reviewed in detail by the AFMPS Legal Service. In particular, the Court states that it is necessary to check whether there is still an increased risk in France for men who have sex with men of contracting infectious diseases transmissible by blood and pathogens such as HIV. It is also necessary to examine whether there are any lighter techniques which nevertheless guarantee the safety and health of the recipient. I have requested an opinion from the Higher Council of Health on the exclusion criteria for the donation of blood considered as a whole. Therefore, the issue is not limited to the infectious risk alone. I will ask the Council to prioritize this draft in the list of the numerous requests for opinions that are made. In addition, I will hold a consultation with blood donation institutions to hear their views.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-30-54-plenair-ip043x.u55	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. Once again, I would like to point out that when you give your blood, you are responsible. To reject such a gesture of generosity and solidarity does not deserve to be excluded. There is also an effort to educate and inform homosexuals in order to make them aware of the dangerous behaviour that would prevent them from giving their blood. The issue of education and training is very important. I very much hope that you will ensure that a certain balance is restored in this matter. This is a certain form of injustice for some.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-30-54-plenair-ip043x.u56	Mr. Chair, Minister, a recent study has published results that are alarming. They do not surprise environmentalists because the European Environment Agency (EEA) had already published similar figures. Air pollution causes 6,000 deaths per year in Belgium. For the state budget, this represents a cost of 19.8 billion, or 4.6 per cent of GDP. In short, death and money lost in large quantities because of this air pollution! Minister, we are waiting for you with an R plan, particularly in the Public Health Committee, where we would like to hear from you about the extent of the actions you intend to take. These measures should cover mobility, i.e. increased investment in rail to reduce the use of cars and trucks; the limitation of tax advantages, particularly for corporate cars; the use of polluting fuels; industry; domestic pollution, particularly dangerous for children, the elderly, sick people; and the agricultural sector. All sectors are concerned. You must take cross-cutting measures by imposing guidelines in the policies of your various colleagues in the federal government, in consultation with the Regions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-30-54-plenair-ip043x.u57	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, if I may say so, you are very broad! Indeed, air quality and specifically the fight against the emissions of problematic particles fall exclusively within the competence of the Regions. However, given the European Commission's formal notice, the federal government obviously wants to contribute to this major objective of improving the environment and public health. Also, the federal governments concerned, the Environment, Finance, Mobility and Energy, whose presence you have noted in this file, are currently preparing the third federal plan (2014-2020) to contribute to the improvement of outdoor and indoor air quality. By the end of May, I will be working with my competent colleagues to quickly present to the Council of Ministers what measures have been adopted within the framework of federal powers, while respecting, of course, regional competences. I will not fail to keep the House Committee on the Environment, which you are chairing, informed of the measures taken. Furthermore, in order to transpose the Gothenburg Protocol, which reduces the emission ceilings for the main pollutants, the four Environment Ministers are currently negotiating a cooperation agreement whose law of consent will be presented to the vote of this committee in early 2016.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-30-54-plenair-ip043x.u58	Minister, the powers are not exclusively regional. They are cross-sectional. While many relate to regional policies, many others also relate to federal policies. Investing in SNCB and mobility via rail is federal. Stop taxing the use of diesel and the use of corporate cars, it's federal. The standards for deodorizing sprays that are increasingly used inside are federal. I refuse, in your answer, to insist so much on the powers of the Regions. On the other hand, I insist that your policy be well coordinated with those of the regional ministers in order to have a cross-cutting plan. I believe that the ambition in atmospheric policy must be the same as in road safety, where zero casualties are targeted on the road. No one in Belgium has to die because of air pollution which is not being adequately addressed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-30-54-plenair-ip043x.u59	Mr. President, Minister, applications for Railtime and SNCB Mobility smartphones coexisted until April 17. As of that date, the Railtime application has been deleted. Only the SNCB Mobility app now remains to inform commuters about the situation of rail traffic, the possible purchase of tickets and possible delays. According to the commuter associations, but also according to SNCB staff, the new application is unsatisfactory, if not unsatisfactory. Indeed, this application is accused of being much less functional, much slower, much more complicated, and less intuitive. He is also accused of not having access to a history of delays. This type of information is particularly useful for justifying an employer's late arrival or for applying for a refund. It is also not possible to have access to connecting data where there is less than five minutes to change trains. Finally, he is criticized for the weak synchronization with the field. Perhaps it would have been better to coordinate upstream in order to propose an application at least equivalent to the Railtime application that was used by 28,000 people a day, i.e. no less than 70,000 times a day. It can therefore be said that it satisfied a large majority of commuters. Minister, what initiatives will be taken to address this situation?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-30-54-plenair-ip043x.u60	Madam Minister, I had prepared an extensive question in my written submission to the committee. I'll put it to your colleague. I think that's the fairest thing to do. I would, however, like to give very limited support to the questions raised by my predecessor. We ourselves decided that the information from SNCB should go to the travellers. That's a decision that was made politically, so there's no problem with that. But why can't we simply take over the website or smartphone application, which is well evaluated, because it is fast, convenient and user-friendly? That seems to me to be the simplicity itself. That is my specific question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-30-54-plenair-ip043x.u61	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for these questions. As stated in the Minister of Mobility's general policy paper, the information provided before and during the journey is very important for the customer, particularly in multimodal routes. The customer is also entitled to prompt and correct information in the event of disturbances. The speed with which the means of communication evolve requires constant adjustments, without forgetting the classical means of communication. The quality of communication is, of course, part of the overall quality of the service expected from SNCB, which the Minister and the entire government wish to promote. In this context, the Minister in committee has already had the opportunity to explain that she will ensure that SNCB provides users with information quickly, correctly and in clear language, both before, during and after the journey. In this context and after months of preparation, Railtime's functionality has been effectively integrated into the website www.sncb.be and the SNCB application since April 17, 2015. According to SNCB, passengers who used to use Railtime were informed via the various communication channels two weeks in advance. SNCB's objective is to continue to improve its communication service by rationalizing the media, which sometimes gave discordant information to the customer. Contrary to your question, SNCB has ensured that all of Railtime's features are included in the SNCB tools. Thus, the SNCB route planner offers all the functions of Railtime, i.e.: real-time schedules, train number searches, real-time lane changes, network work, network disruptions, certificates of delay. In addition, new features are available, including a door-to-door route planner including STIB, De Lijn and TEC schedules, ticket purchase, personalized brochures. For applications, the functions were already present in the Railtime application and were added to the SNCB application. The user thus benefits from the advantages of both applications. As a reminder, the SNCB app for iPhone already offered integrated ticket sales and recently, the SNCB app for Android also has this feature. The SNCB application now allows, in addition to the existing features, train number searching, real-time track changes and a wake-up function, sometimes useful. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-30-54-plenair-ip043x.u62	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. The commuters are quite unanimous. There was a lot of feedback to say that the Railtime site was basic in its form and presentation, but it was efficient, fast, user-friendly and truly met their expectations. I am reassured that SNCB is concerned about information during travel. That's the least I can do. Let the information be of quality, it is also the least of the things! But SNCB is not always the source of the information. Railtime had the advantage of being housed at Infrabel, where there are many problems of delay because Infrabel manages the infrastructure. However, it is known that delays are often linked to these infrastructure problems. Infrabel was therefore at the root of the problems to feed directly and quickly the site Railtime that no longer exists. That's a shame. I hope that in the future the adaptations will be quick, numerous, effective and really in the interest of the commuter.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-30-54-plenair-ip043x.u63	Madam Minister, SNCB must provide this information, which is a legal obligation. You have said that it worked well and that is why I stick to my only simple question: if something works well, why not take it over? If we type in www.nmbs.be today, we will visit the website www.belgianrail.be. The transfer to something already owned by the railway company could have been much easier.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-30-54-plenair-ip043x.u64	That concludes the oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-30-54-plenair-ip043x.u65	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Raf Terwingen, Servais Verherstraeten, Philippe Goffin, Kristien Van Vaerenbergh, Sonja Becq, Carina Van Cauter
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-30-54-plenair-ip043x.u66	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-30-54-plenair-ip043x.u67	Mr President, I refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-30-54-plenair-ip043x.u68	Mr Terwingen, the author of this proposal, apologizes for his absence.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-30-54-plenair-ip043x.u69	Mr President, I would briefly like to say that this proposal seeks to eliminate an ambiguity arising from the amendment of the legislation in the family court, in particular whether the appointment of a secwester is still possible before the court of first instance and the judge of the execution. It is a minor legislative amendment, however, which has consequences in practice and on which we are also waiting on the ground. I would therefore like to thank all my fellow Members for their speedy and efficient cooperation and their input in terms of content.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-30-54-plenair-ip043x.u70	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-30-54-plenair-ip043x.u71	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (792/7) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (792/7) The bill has 4 articles. The bill has 4 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-30-54-plenair-ip043x.u72	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-30-54-plenair-ip043x.u73	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Catherine Fonck The Committee on Health, the Environment and Social Renewal proposes to reject this bill. (507/2) The Committee on Public Health, the Environment and the Renewal of the Society proposes to reject this bill. (507/2) Pursuant to Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, the plenary shall decide on this proposal for rejection after hearing the rapporteur and, where appropriate, the author. In accordance with Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, the plenary session will decide on this rejection proposal after hearing the rapporteur and possibly the author.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-30-54-plenair-ip043x.u74	Mr President, I will present the first part of the report. My colleague, Mrs Jiroflée, will report on the second part. The Public Health Commission considered this bill on 17 and 24 March. The author, Ms. Fonck, first wished to recall the major public health issue of tobacco consumption, pointing out that it causes 20,000 premature deaths annually. As young people were particularly affected by the most fragile public sectors, she felt that the public authorities should do everything possible to prevent consumption from beginning at a young age. Advertising obviously plays a leading role in tobacco consumption. It can take different forms, including the cigarette pack itself. Despite the health warnings to appear on the packaging, Ms. Fonck said that there was still a margin for the expression of advertising aesthetics. It states that studies have shown that packaging is one of the criteria that determine the choice of consuming tobacco products of a particular brand. The proposal therefore aims to introduce a package of neutral cigarettes, i.e. a package without advertising, without brand name and without logo, in order to make consumption less tempting. Lastly, she said that the Foundation against Cancer had been advocating for years in that direction. Both Mr Thiéry and Mrs Van Hoof considered that it was preferable to wait for the transposition of the European Tobacco Products Directive to take place in May 2016. Maybe it's a way to clean the goat and the cabbage, as Mr. Thiéry said. Together with Mrs Somers, they also expressed doubts that there was sufficient scientific evidence about the influence of the neutral package on consumption. A good health education is, according to Mr Thiéry, more effective in combating tobacco consumption. Like Mrs Somers and Mrs Hufkens, he felt that the neutral package would facilitate the counterfeiting of cigarettes and that cigarettes could be even more harmful to health. Ms. Jiroflée first wished to recall the constant increase in cancers and the fact that one in three cancers was linked to tobacco. She therefore hoped that measures would be taken to reduce smoking and to draw the public's attention to the dangers of tobacco. It therefore considers that the introduction of the neutral package is one of the measures referring in particular to the studies carried out by the Foundation against Cancer. It considers this measure to be an excellent preventive measure, which it considers essential and which should be part of a broader strategy, particularly with regard to young people. It also points out that pending the transposition of the European Directive, certain aspects could be dealt with in advance in Belgian legislation. Ms Jiroflée concluded that the argument concerning counterfeiting was not relevant since it already existed. It therefore concluded by supporting the proposal. Ms. Hufkens acknowledged that smoking is harmful to health and should be reduced. However, it was not convinced that the neutral package would be the solution and considered that the proposed measure did not take into account the interests of the sector and could have disastrous consequences for it. For my part, without going back at length to the harmful and harmful consequences of the consumption of tobacco products, I have stressed the need to continue to pursue a genuine, thoughtful, coherent and effective tobacco control policy. I also wanted to point out that cigarette packages are now used as advertising media and can in themselves be a real incentive for consumption, especially for young people and women. It is the only advertising space left for the tobacco industry and it is necessary to restrict it. By imposing the generic package, I pointed out that it was indeed possible to avoid the entry of a number of non-smokers into smoking, while increasing the impact of health messages on packages. Like Mrs Jiroflée, I wanted to point out that, while the new European directive on tobacco products places more emphasis on health warnings, it also allows States to take additional measures in terms of packaging if they so wish. I therefore considered that the introduction of the neutral package was a step in the right direction in the fight against tobacco, particularly with regard to young people, and that it seemed essential to us that public health interests should take precedence above all in this respect. Ms Gerkens, for her part, pointed out that her group supported the bill, and that tobacco control and advertising were necessary. In her view, the aspect of cigarette packages is a well-thought-out form of advertising. Gerkens found it unacceptable to support an industry that markets products that are harmful to health. In her view, the argument that the interests of the sector should be taken into account should not be in a case where the interests of public health must take precedence. Furthermore, the intervener considered that, while the fight against counterfeiting should continue, it had not waited for the neutral package to develop. Finally, Ms. Van Hoof stressed that certain problems such as intellectual property rights still needed to be addressed and that the effects of a possible increase in the price of cigarettes should be studied. She concluded by proposing to reflect on the issue by hearing experts on the subject. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-30-54-plenair-ip043x.u75	Mr President, I shall begin with Mrs Fonck's answers to the first speeches. Mrs Fonck reiterated that many people died as a result of smoking, that the solution should be an en-story and that the strategy of combating tobacco consumption was based on four pillars: price, advertising, prevention and smoke control. In her view, the most important thing is to prevent young people from starting smoking. It recalls that 37 studies in eight countries have shown that the introduction of neutral packages leads to fewer smoking, particularly among young people. She believes that the argument that the EU is working on a tobacco control regime is not a reason for our country to do nothing. It also points out that Belgium has not taken any new measures in eight years. Mrs Fonck also wishes to know the Minister's opinion on the proposal before us. It also considers that the arguments of the majority are those of the tobacco industry. Finally, Mrs Fonck certainly agrees to hear experts on the bill. This will then be replicated, among others by Mrs Somers. It reiterates that there is insufficient evidence that the neutral cigarette package is effective. It wants prevention and active measures to discourage smoking to be used and points out that this is a parliamentary proposal, on which Parliament can decide autonomously without the Minister having to agree. However, Ms Gerkens, the chairman of the committee, pointed out that the minister or her representative would normally be present on such legislative proposals. Mr Thiéry reiterated his arguments and wished to place them in the right context. He advocated the preventive role of schools. The majority believes that the correct transposition of the directive should be undertaken first. At that stage of the story, I said once again that I do not agree with the statement that the neutral cigarette package would make the fight against counterfeiting more difficult. There have already been a number of broadcasts and reports that have shown that, among other things, the tobacco lobby would pay for such studies. It would also be interesting to hear experts from the field. Mr Senesael considered it interesting to organise hearings. He welcomed the fact that the proposal would put the fight against tobacco back on the agenda after no progress had been made for eight years. The President, Mrs Gerkens, recalls that tobacco advertising has been on Parliament's agenda since 1999 and has always given rise to debate. It asks which evidence-based arguments the majority cites to show that counterfeiting will increase. The legislative proposal may enter into force at the same time as the transposed directive. In her view, therefore, arguments for non-legislative action are not acceptable. At another meeting we saw the Minister's representative. He noted that Belgium had to transpose the Directive of the European Parliament and of the European Council. He also pointed out that the government had started work on transposing that directive. It will be necessary to adopt a position on matters not directly decided by the European legislator, such as electronic cigarettes and neutral packages. He also cites a number of examples of countries where the neutral package has been introduced or will be introduced. He says the Minister has instructed her administration to study the evolution. At that stage of the investigation, the government and the Minister responsible for Health consider it too early to introduce neutral cigarette packets. There is another reply from Mrs Fonck, who points out that the introduction of neutral cigarette packets in some states of the UN is already a fact. As a result of these Directives, Member States may take national measures concerning the packaging of tobacco products. The speaker therefore continues to hope that Belgium will do the same. In reply, the Minister's representative emphasizes once again that the Minister will decide after examination. The other speakers have repeated the previous discussion and no new arguments have been raised. In the end, Article 1, and consequently the entire legislative proposal, is rejected by 11 votes to three.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-30-54-plenair-ip043x.u76	Thank you, Mrs Jiroflée, for the report.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-30-54-plenair-ip043x.u77	Mr President, I thank both rapporteurs. Colleagues, even if there are not many of you today, this is a matter that concerns a major public health issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-30-54-plenair-ip043x.u78	The best are here!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-30-54-plenair-ip043x.u79	This is everything but an anecdotal dossier because it refers to a reality in our country, namely 20,000 preventable and premature annual deaths: one in three cancers and many cardiovascular diseases. We have discussed this issue in committee, which is a major public health issue. The various elements have just been recalled here by the rapporteurs. All the arguments that have been used by the majority are exactly the same as those put forward repeatedly by the tobacco industry. They are the same, and it is sufficient to consult the documents from the tobacco sector. At times, it is almost a copy-paste of these documents that I have heard from some members of the committee. Scientifically proven? No! The industry sector says exactly the same thing. Worried because we were going to impose it on the sector? Yes, indeed. Worried because we were going to force them to change their packaging? Yes, yes, and that's the point. Yes, cigar makers are concerned and some members, especially the majority, are concerned in the same way. Is the fight against tobacco going only through the establishment of a neutral package? The answer is obviously no. An effective public health policy on tobacco is based on price, advertising – two advertising vehicles are now allowed in Belgium – prevention and support for tobacco cessation. Colleagues, yesterday you received an email from the Cancer Foundation. I hope everyone among you has read this e-mail carefully. In fact, you may have, in your family, in your relationships, people who suffer from cancer. The e-mail question answers, point by point, the arguments put forward by the tobacco industry and by you. It answers the question whether this neutral package is effective. The Cancer Foundation supports the measure first because neutral packages are shown to be less attractive. In her view, many studies conducted by institutes, reliable and independent universities, which addressed this topic from different methodological perspectives, have produced similar results. Health warnings are much more visible on a neutral package and cigarettes lose much of their attractiveness. With a young audience that has not yet been trapped by addiction, this can make a huge difference. The Foundation has also put forward a number of other arguments concerning the effectiveness of the measure in the countries where it was introduced. For example, in Australia, the percentage of daily smokers fell by 15.1% in 2010 and 12.8% as a result of a series of measures including the neutral package. Moreover, according to the Foundation, there was no price collapse and small traders were not affected by the measure. The illicit traffic in cigarettes has also not increased and counterfeiting has even decreased. As you have, I hope, read in this letter, the Cancer Foundation, for each element, brings concrete references and evidence. The Foundation continues by also mentioning the Director of the World Health Organization (WHO), who advocates for neutral packages. Finally, for an argument relating to intellectual property rights also brought in committee, it has already been submitted to legal advice. Again, reference is made to a solid source: the full report of a hearing in the European Parliament on intellectual property rights. Colleagues, some have said that in any case, a new European directive - voted a year ago - will apply in 2016. Of course, but precisely this European directive has provided that the issue of the neutral package is directly a matter for the Member States. Like Australia, some of these Member States are more courageous than Belgium, as France, the United Kingdom and Ireland have now made clear progress towards establishing this neutral package as early as 2016. This would make it possible, and this is the main part of the fight for the neutral package, to prevent new people, and especially young people, from being attracted to cigarettes; and thus to prevent young people from starting to smoke. The conclusion, in this debate, I will leave it to the Foundation against Cancer. Who better than all its members, than especially all the patients involved in cancer or cardiovascular disease, to convince you? I'll read you some of the elements of their conclusion. For the Cancer Foundation, tobacco control among young people is a top priority. This fight will also have an undeniable beneficial effect on social security expenditure. As a foundation, it fully supports the measures that have been shown in the tobacco issue and the introduction of neutral packages is part of it. The Foundation calls on you, ladies and gentlemen, to protect our young people from tobacco before they are, in turn, dependent. Colleagues, I invite you to show courage and to choose the health of citizens. I invite you to protect our young people rather than support the tobacco industry. I invite you to put people's health ahead of the tobacco industry. Choose well! This vote is, first and foremost, for our young people and must be used to avoid a large number of cancers and, above all, preventable suffering and death.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-30-54-plenair-ip043x.u80	No other speaker may speak. No one can speak any more. The vote on the proposal to reject this bill will take place later. The vote on the proposal to reject this bill will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-30-54-plenair-ip043x.u81	The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. If there is no objection, I shall consider it adopted; in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be sent to the committees responsible. If there are no comments on this subject, I will take it into account as a matter of fact and refer the proposals back to the relevant committees in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. In line with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 29 April 2015, I also propose that you consider: - Mr Raf Terwingen's draft law amending the Code of Justice as regards the time limit for the preliminary hearing of the family court in the event of an emergency (No. 1049/1).
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-30-54-plenair-ip043x.u82	- the draft law of Mrs. Els Van Hoof and Nathalie Muylle amending the law of 14 June 2002 on palliative care, extending the definition of palliative care (No. 1051/10), - the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Nahima Lanjri and Mrs Valerie Van Peel, Mr Damien Thiéry and Mrs Ine Somers and Mrs Nathalie Muylle and Mr Denis Ducarme on the fight against poverty (Doc. 1052/1).
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-30-54-plenair-ip043x.u83	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 29 April 2015, I also propose that you take into account: - Mr Raf Terwingen's bill amending the Judicial Code with regard to the time limit for the introduction of the family court in case of emergency (No. 1049/1).
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-30-54-plenair-ip043x.u84	- the bill of Mrs Els Van Hoof and Mrs Nathalie Muylle amending the law of 14 June 2002 on palliative care with a view to broadening the definition of palliative care (No. 1051/1); - the motion for a resolution by Mrs Nahima Lanjri and Mrs Valerie Van Peel, Mr Damien Thiéry and Mrs Ine Somers and Mrs Muylle and Mr Denis Ducrame on the fight against poverty (No 1052/1).
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-30-54-plenair-ip043x.u85	Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-30-54-plenair-ip043x.u86	The next item is the secret vote on naturalisations. (996/1-2) The next item is the vote on naturalisations. (996/1-2) Members are invited to deposit the proposal of naturalisation laws in the ballot box. Members are requested to submit the proposed naturalization laws in the ballot box. The proposal of naturalisation laws must not be signed. The proposed naturalization laws cannot be signed. Where a member opposes the naturalisation of an applicant, he shall delete the name of the interested party from the list which was delivered to him. A member who does not intend to grant naturalization to an applicant will delete the name of the applicant from the list given to him. Two Members must vote. I propose that our youngest two Members, Mrs Nawal Ben Hamou and Mrs Yoleen Van Camp, be appointed as voters. Two members shall proceed to the counting of the ballot. I propose that you appoint the two youngest members, Nawal Ben Hamou and Yoleen Van Camp, as deputy returning officers. I invite the voters from the names to call. I invite the deputy returning officers to make the roll call.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-30-54-plenair-ip043x.u87	We are going to close the secret vote on naturalization applications. We will close the ballot for naturalization applications. I would ask those Members who have not yet done so to put their ballots on the bus immediately. I ask those members who have not yet tabled their ballots to do so immediately. The secret ballot is closed. I declare the ballot closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-30-54-plenair-ip043x.u88	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 127 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 127 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft. (792/8) Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a draft for Royal Assent. (792/8)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-30-54-plenair-ip043x.u89	Mr President, before I turn to the last item on the agenda, could I ask to highlight a woman who is leaving us today, Mrs Lut Paessens, a translator who has been with us for so long? She's retiring. It's her last day and I just wanted her to be greeted. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-30-54-plenair-ip043x.u90	She just left the room...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-30-54-plenair-ip043x.u91	Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-30-54-plenair-ip043x.u92	Mr President, almost 5 000 new cases of lung cancer are recorded every year. One in three cancers is related to tobacco. Who smokes shortens his life by an average of eight years. Those are facts. Not a sensible person who still has doubts about the bad consequences of the cigarette. In the Health Committee, members of the government parties ignore scientific studies. If it is not so poignant, then one could speak of ignorance or naivety. This debate is more appropriate for failure to act. Anyone who goes flat on the belly for some major industrial players and deliberately ignores scientific evidence bears a homicidal responsibility. In any case, our group will wholeheartedly support the proposal on neutral cigarette packets now and in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-30-54-plenair-ip043x.u93	Mr President, on behalf of my group, I regret that the majority comply with the demands of the tobacco lobby, of which we know the power. We know how much it has affected the decisions to be taken in the European Parliament. There are one hundred and forty lobbyists for just one brand: Philip Morris. In addition, the tobacco lobby officially weighs €5.3 million in budget, but in fact it represents ten times as much. It is well known that Philip Morris went so far as to ignore all MEPs according to their favourable position or not and their sensitivity to lobby pressures. Since the majority did not make any serious arguments, I am obliged to conclude that the tobacco lobby also worked well in the House. We see the consequences today!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-30-54-plenair-ip043x.u94	Mr President, on behalf of the Socialist Group, I regret that the majority did not follow the proposal tabled by Mrs Fonck. I regret this tobacco lobbying. Young people are privileged targets that we try to embrigate in this infamous spiral of cigarette smoking. We regret that we have not been able to go further and faster so that this proposal can be accepted.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-30-54-plenair-ip043x.u95	Mr. Chairman, before I sat here, I worked for several years in palliative care. When you see the list of tobacco-related cancers, it makes you think! The neutral package is an additional step to encourage young people to quit smoking. In the vicinity of schools, children of twelve or thirteen years of age are seen with a cigarette, which makes you think terribly! Even if the majority has chosen to reject this proposal, I really hope that the parliamentarians of the majority who are anti-smoking will be able to vote in full conscience.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-30-54-plenair-ip043x.u96	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, for the Ecolo-Groen Group, between protecting life or protecting the interests of cigar makers, there is no hesitation in having to be. It is quite scandalous that this proposal to introduce a package of neutral cigarettes has been rejected. Of course, there is also a need to develop education, prevention and health promotion, but federal expertise exists, particularly in the fight against forms of advertising. Making the package aesthetic is encouraging consumption among young people, especially young women. And it works because, unfortunately, more and more young women are smoking. These are excise duties and this government has also refused to significantly increase excise duties on tobacco. On the other hand, it accepts price increases that bring millions to cigar makers. It's outrageous. We will therefore vote to ensure that this proposal is not rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-30-54-plenair-ip043x.u97	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the N-VA is well aware of the health risks associated with smoking. [[Rumor]] Every case of cancer and every case of death must not be related. Our group has always taken the health risk associated with smoking seriously in the past, and we were and still are protagonists of the ban on smoking in the hospitality sector. The debate we are having today on whether or not to introduce a neutral package for cigarettes and tobacco must not, of course, be led by emotion alone. International studies have indeed taken place, but they contradict each other. There is the example of Australia, where plain packaging was introduced, but with a significant price increase. In other words, the causal relationship cannot be established there. In addition, there are also risks associated with the introduction of that neutral package, as the door to illegal trafficking and smuggling is opened. In short, the N-VA Group wants more clarity about the impact and impact of the introduction. Moreover, and not unimportantly, this country will have to transpose the European Tobacco Directive into Belgian law by 20 May 2016. There is therefore little point in adopting individual measures now, because this neutral package must fit in with a larger set of pricing, prevention and smoke control. So let us go with the transposition of the directive in favour of a structural smoke-retardant policy. For the N-VA, this debate deserves better than mere flaming politics and emotion. Smoke-disguising policy is a priority for us. We have proven this in the past, and we will continue to do so in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-30-54-plenair-ip043x.u98	Mr President, it is our turn to speak out against what has been said. In committee, things have been extremely clear. The majority has taken an even clearer position: we will indeed wait for the transposition of the European directive into Belgian law. However, a number of arguments, not those of the tobacco industry, were used. We have spoken today about Australia, where it is impossible to say at this time whether it is the introduction of the neutral cigarette package or the increase in tobacco prices that has led to a reduction in consumption. There is currently no scientific study, whether prospective or retrospective, that can show that the package of neutral cigarettes will completely change the consumer's behaviour. In this regard, Mr. Miller and I will make a proposal to amend Rule 88 of the Rules of the House of Representatives. It is paradoxical that when the parliamentary majority rejects a draft in committee, there is only the author or even the rapporteurs who can speak on the subject. We are giving reasons for voting here and I see that we are starting the debate again, which is not acceptable! It is clear that we will propose this amendment!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-30-54-plenair-ip043x.u99	Mr Thiéry, I take note of your proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-30-54-plenair-ip043x.u100	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, our group will accept the rejection proposal. Of course, we believe that smoking should be prevented. At the time, we were also the ones who tabled a proposal for a ban on smoking in the hospitality industry. That was approved, too. This proposal is a single measure. We all know that one third of cancer cases are the result of smoking. That is why we believe that a global plan should be drawn up. The transposition of the EU Directive should take place within the framework of an overall action plan. This fact, which needs to be further examined, must also form part of this study for the transposition of the global European directive. That is why I shall abstain on behalf of our group.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-30-54-plenair-ip043x.u101	Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 2) Yes 75 Yes No. 54 No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 130 Total Consequently, the Court accepts the rejection proposal. The Bill No. 507/1 was therefore rejected. Accordingly, the board adopts the proposal to reject. Bill No. 507/1 is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-30-54-plenair-ip043x.u102	This is the result of the secret vote on naturalizations. (996/2) This is the result of the naturalization vote. (996/2) Aantal stemmen 123 Number of voters Valid votes 122 Votes valables Perfect majority 62 Absolute majority All naturalisations have achieved the absolute majority. The proposal of naturalisation laws will be voted on shortly. All naturalizations obtained an absolute majority. The vote on the proposed naturalization laws will take place in a moment. The proposal of the Committee on Naturalizations consists of three parts (A, B and C) each containing several articles to be adopted. The Naturalisations Commission's proposal is divided into three parts (A, B and C) each containing several articles to be adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-30-54-plenair-ip043x.u103	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the whole of the proposal for a naturalisation law (Part A) will take place later. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the whole proposal for a naturalisation law (Part A) will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-30-54-plenair-ip043x.u104	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the whole of the proposal for a naturalisation law (Part B) will take place later. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the whole proposal for a naturalisation law (Part B) will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-30-54-plenair-ip043x.u105	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the whole of the proposal for a naturalisation law (Part C) will take place later. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the whole proposal for a naturalisation law (Part C) will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-30-54-plenair-ip043x.u106	We shall now proceed to the vote on the proposal for naturalisation laws, the articles of which we have just discussed. We will proceed to vote on the proposed naturalization laws that we have just discussed. Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-30-54-plenair-ip043x.u107	Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check his voice? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 3) Yes 129 Yes No. 1 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 130 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the proposal of naturalisation law (Part A). It will be submitted to the King for ratification. Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the proposed naturalization law (Part A). It will be subject to Royal Assent.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-30-54-plenair-ip043x.u108	Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check his voice? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 129 Yes No. 1 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 130 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the proposal of naturalisation law (Part B). It will be submitted to the King for ratification. Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the proposed naturalization law (Part B). It will be subject to Royal Assent.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-30-54-plenair-ip043x.u109	Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check his voice? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 5) Yes 127 Yes No. 1 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 128 Total Mrs Carina Van Cauter also voted in favour. Consequently, the Court adopts the proposal of naturalisation law (Part C). It will be submitted to the King for ratification. Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the proposed naturalization law (Part C). It will be subject to Royal Assent.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-30-54-plenair-ip043x.u110	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check his voice? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 6) Yes 129 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 129 Total Consequently, the Court accepts the rejection proposal. Accordingly, the board adopts the proposal to reject.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-30-54-plenair-ip043x.u111	We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for Thursday 7 May 2015. We must proceed to the approval of the agenda of the sitting on Thursday, 7 May 2015. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. (...): (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-30-54-plenair-ip043x.u112	Mrs. Lanjri, I really must disappoint you, it's too late. Ladies and gentlemen, may I draw your attention to one of our most experienced interpreters who is saying goodbye to us, Mrs Paessens. [[Long-term applause]] We thank her for the good services and wish her a pleasant continuation. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 7 May 2015 at 2.15 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Thursday, 7 May 2015, at 2.15 p.m.
