ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic069x.u1	Mr. Bonte's not coming.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic069x.u2	Minister, we believe that our pension system contains an injustice, which is also quite easy to eliminate. It is a result of the Programme Act of 28 June 2013. Article 91 provides for a ban on cumulation of retirement and survivors' pensions from the public sector with a replacement income. No exception was allowed. It is now clear that this scheme is not really in line with the situation of people who have worked in the system of workers and in the system of civil servants. More specifically, this creates a precarious situation for a person who combines a half-time employment in the private sector with a half-time employment in the public sector and becomes sick and permanently disabled, and should therefore fall back on a replacement allowance. Let me give you the example of a woman who is finally declared physically unfit by a severe cancer treatment. She has worked full-time throughout her life, albeit with two half-time contracts: half-time with the government and half-time as an employee. After being declared unfit and having applied for her retirement pension for permanent physical incapacity, she is informed that she must choose and that she cannot combine her pension with a replacement income. Firstly, do you recognise that this ban on cumulation is not sufficiently flexible for the cases where people find themselves combining two half-time jobs, in the private sector and in the public sector? Secondly, do you acknowledge that, despite their years of full-time contributions to both systems, those workers are de facto only entitled to a half-time benefit as a result of the ban on cumulation? Thirdly, what measures are you planning to take away this injustice? Fourthly, how many officials with a pension due to permanent physical incapacity received a suspension of a replacement income by introducing the cumulation ban? In how many cases are people who combined two half-time functions in the two systems? Finally, how many civil servants with a pension for permanent physical incapacity received a suspension of their invalidity benefit as a result of the introduction of the cumulation ban? In how many cases are these people who combine two half-time functions in the two systems?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic069x.u3	Mr President, Minister, I shall put my question to you. 1385 couples. My other question, No. 1213, was an old version of the same question. I agree with the question put by Mr De Vriendt, who has described the problem as well as correctly. I would like to add another dimension to that. By the end of 2014, PDOS sent a letter to the persons concerned informing them that the pension payments for 2014 will be recovered. However, there is a problem. After all, the programme law had effect from 1 January 2013, but the article in question did not take effect until 1 September 2013. The intention was to give the entitled persons concerned time to make that uncomfortable choice and thus to avoid, as Mr De Vriendt pointed out, that they would have to repay sums unduly paid. Both sickness funds and PDOS depend on the data provided by the Crossroads Bank. It should be added that, pursuant to Article 235 (1) of the Royal Decree of 3 July 1996, sickness funds must check whether a reduction is to be applied because of the combination of an invalidity pension and a pension. They therefore have that information and could possibly have communicated it. Mr Minister, first of all, do you believe that the PDOS has made mistakes in communicating the consequences of Article 91? Secondly, is there in some cases an error in the sitting of the right holders? Thirdly, from when did the PDOS become aware through the Crossroads Bank of which other benefits the beneficiaries benefited from? How do you estimate the role of the health insurance funds? Could they have known that before the PDOS and had to communicate about this? How will the further handling by the PDOS take place? I would like to ask these questions, on top of Mr De Vriendt's questions about the substance of the problem itself, which obviously also needs to be addressed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic069x.u4	The new cumulation rules, introduced by the previous government by the Programme Act of 28 June 2013, indeed impose a complete cumulation ban on pensions of the public sector with a replacement income, so that the pension is suspended during each calendar month in which the person concerned receives a replacement income, unless he fails to pay his replacement income. It's in Rule 91. In the case of a pension for physical incapacity, the complete prohibition of cumulation leads to undesirable situations in certain cases. The Public Sector Pension Service, PDOS, did not have any information on replacement income in September 2013, as the cumulation was allowed at that time. The service was therefore unable to notify the persons concerned immediately. It is only from September 2014 that the PDOS had the annual data of the 2013 replacement income available for the first time. The data were provided by the Crossroads Bank of Social Security. For this reason, I believe that the PDOS has not committed any error in the implementation of the measure. I have taken priority measures to put an end to the situation, because the application of the measure creates a social problem. Thus, on the one hand, I gave instructions to the PDOS so that the payment of pensions for physical incapacity could no longer be suspended in the future in the case of a cumulation with a replacement income and the reimbursement of pension benefits already paid is no longer claimed. On the other hand, I asked PDOS to urgently draw up a draft text to end the ban on cumulation with effect from 1 January 2013. The adoption of the text will lead to the re-admission of the cumulation of a pension for physical incapacity with a replacement income. It will also allow the pension amounts suspended in 2014 to be repaid without further disputes. The text will be submitted to the Chamber shortly. A specific question has been asked about the role of the sickness funds. I cannot provide any information on this, as the sickness funds belong to the Minister for Social Affairs and Health. At the moment, I cannot give definitive figures on the number of people in this situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic069x.u5	Minister, I am very pleased that you clearly recognise the problem and will resolve it with a legislative initiative. The case will therefore be resolved from 1 January 2015 with full retroactive effect until 2013. It is also a problem which the Pension Office has been aware of. There was no justification for such a situation. It has led to distressing situations among those concerned. It is therefore only the most normal thing in the world that the problem is resolved as quickly as possible, for which I am grateful.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic069x.u6	Mr President, I too would like to thank the Minister for the initiatives he has taken in this respect. Perhaps the issue is a good reason to consider whether the data of the Crossroads Bank cannot be passed on faster and more accurately. After all, we must not forget that the effects are now being reversed, but that right holders have been in this situation for a long period and may have borne financial consequences. In addition to these financial aspects, they have long been in the saddest knowledge that they should continue to live in this new situation. Thank you again, Minister, for your solution to that problem, with the cooperation of our Members of Parliament, whom we will be happy to provide. The problem must make us aware of the sometimes unpleasant side-effects of what good legislation can be.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic069x.u7	Mr President, Minister, you have recently given a number of interviews. Quite rightly, because the issue of pensions and pension reform is of course a matter for many. You stated on 12 January in La Libre Belgique that the National Pension Committee would enter into force in March or April. Our group believes that this is not too early. It is high time the bull was caught by the horns. I read in the government agreement that the National Pension Committee will be tripartite, made up of representatives of the government and the two social partners. Social dialogue will then take place within that committee. Support is also provided by a knowledge centre for pensions. The Federal Planning Office, the Study Committee for Ageing and the universities are to be closely involved. When discussing your policy paper, I have already pointed out that we must pay attention so that we continue to see the forest through the trees. Overinformation can cause indigestion. An important principle in our pension system is intergenerational solidarity. Without being reproached, because the situation is what it is, we find that, economically speaking, the generation that is now retiring receives more from the system than it has contributed to. It looks like it will be the other way round for future generations, which naturally puts pressure on our pension system as such. That leads me to three questions for you. Firstly, to what extent has cooperation between the knowledge centre for pensions and the other centres of knowledge already been established? What measures are being taken to ensure that the best use is made of know-how within the administration and that there is no duplication of effort? Secondly, the social dialogue within the National Pension Committee will have to consider transitional measures, the transition from one pension system to another and the harmonization of the different systems. Of course, you must wait for the social dialogue. That goes without saying, but can you tell me what the margin is for negotiation? What is the timetable for the consultation? What will happen if no agreement is reached? Thirdly, as far as intergenerational solidarity is concerned, it is perhaps not imaginary short-term thinking that pension policy in the past has been too marked by the fact that the social partners would propose measures that would not put the cost of ageing at the grassroots level right now, but that would move to the next generation, which would, of course, put a great deal of pressure on our pension system. To what extent will the government be able to ensure that solidarity with future generations is given sufficient attention?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic069x.u8	Mr President, Minister, Mr De Roover's question is a little more extensive than mine. I limited my question to the National Pension Committee. We have known the Committee on Pension Reform which has delivered its report and has itself proposed to make it a permanent pension committee in order to ensure the follow-up. That initiative was taken up in the coalition agreement. It stated that we must establish a National Pension Committee that will play a crucial role in monitoring the financial and social sustainability of our pensions. You have announced that this committee will be set up. A National Pension Committee is provided for, as well as the government agreement that a knowledge centre for pensions will be set up to take care of the services and know-how of existing pension institutions. The Federal Planning Bureau, the Study Committee for Ageing and the universities would also be involved in the operation. In addition, the Pension Reform Committee would be asked to act as a kind of academic council. Minister, I have a few questions about this. Firstly, how are the preparations for the establishment of the National Pension Committee going? Where are you on the composition? Which persons will be included? Do you already have a look at the agenda that you will provide? Or will you not? Which topic will you propose as a priority? I believe that this element is also important. There is also a demand for the composition of the knowledge centre. Will it be operational after the establishment of the National Pension Committee and go into consultation with it? How will that trio work with the National Pension Committee, the knowledge centre and the committee that has to follow things up? After all, these three bodies will have to coordinate for the future of our pensions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic069x.u9	Mr President, the draft texts are currently being prepared. At this stage, therefore, I am still unable to let you know which organisations will be represented or what the number of representatives will be. That's for the Group of Ten. You're being prudent. At this stage, it is too early to set a precise agenda for the National Pension Committee. In any case, I can tell you that I intend to have the file on the heavy professions evaluated as a matter of priority by the National Pensions Committee, as well as that on part-time or part-time pensions. Until the establishment of the National Pension Committee, I asked the Pension Reform Committee 2020-2040 to prepare the National Pension Committee's tasks on these issues. The Centre of Knowledge will be composed by experts with the necessary capacities to provide the expected support. It will start simultaneously with the National Pension Committee in order to be operational simultaneously. The measures laid down in the government agreement are precisely designed to take account of our intergenerational solidarity, since they encourage all our fellow citizens to work a little longer and this from today on.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic069x.u10	Minister, unlike the previous question, it was more general. I cannot therefore expect you to respond in detail. I have probably missed your answer to the question of what timetable you want to follow. Or maybe you didn't answer that. I would like to hear this on occasion, because there is a need for some haste. I trust that you will ensure that all information reaches us in a coordinated manner where it can be used meaningfully.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic069x.u11	Minister, I had also asked about the timing. I understand that you have submitted this to the Group of Ten and that the decisions will be taken on the basis of that consultation. I suspect and hope that this will happen in the near future. I think it is important that you put the heavy professions forward as one of the important issues to be discussed. It is difficult to begin with the demand for adapted tantiemes if the heavy professions are not included. There is also a demand for a shorter career due to a heavy occupation and to the criteria that are eligible for it. Will there be room for the people of the National Pension Committee to set priorities for themselves after mutual consultation? I can imagine that they would like to take other files with them. I am thinking, for example, of supplementary pensions. It is often said that they should be encouraged for everyone, including those who are not entitled to them now. This is an important issue for the weaker sectors. The point system will also need time. Good preparation is needed in this respect. It has never been the intention, through the point system, to achieve a reduction in the pension. There must be sufficient time and space to ensure that the point system does not prejudice certain people. We look forward to that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic069x.u12	Mr President, Minister, my question dates back to October last year. It was a bottleneck at the time, but I understand that a number of questions were answered in the meantime. However, you will understand that people are a little panicked when the government agreement announces a number of measures relating to their pensions, especially those that are not as far away from their possible retirement date as possible. Even now there are doubts and doubts about the diploma bonus, the tantiemes and the extension of the early retirement pension. Of course, people ask themselves questions. We then forward them to the pension number or to their services to ask for information, including for the files of the PDOS, where they have been told at some point that there is no more information. Diplomacy would then enter into force in 2015, meanwhile this was shifted to 2016. I ask this question to know to what extent this has now been fully resolved? Are there any gaps? Shouldn't that be communicated more clearly? There were bottlenecks experienced in the PDOS. Was it necessary to block all the files? I was told that all the files were simply withdrawn. Have any initiatives been taken on this? Is there social dialogue to reach agreements? We know that in the meantime some measures have been taken, for example the KBS. In what way are people treated who have asked for information and did not receive an answer? Are they automatically re-contacted if there is any clarity? In what way have these agreements been made? How will communication take place as long as there is no clarity on some issues?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic069x.u13	Mr President, I do not think we can talk about a blocking of pensions, since in practice no dossier has been blocked. The Public Sector Pension Service has merely postponed the dispatch of a number of pension decisions. The pension files themselves have not been blocked, they have always been treated. The messages in the press and the emotions of the citizens are the result of a far too broad interpretation of the measure taken. The PDOS wanted to take a measure that would protect officials from wrong information that could lead them to wrong choices. The PDOS, an institution that accepts its responsibility, has also wanted to protect itself in case it would pass incorrect information on to officials. In fact, certain pension decisions were not sent to the addressee from 13 October 2014. The shipments have been renewed since October 2014 following a consultation between the PDOS and myself. Since then, the situation has been normalized. The preliminary draft law on the abolition of time-bonification due to diploma, permitted work for the retired and the abolition of the pension bonus was adopted by the Council of Ministers on 7 November 2014. The texts were forwarded to the Public Enterprises Committee and to the A Committee so that social dialogue could take place in accordance with the usual procedures. Social dialogue at the A Committee is still ongoing.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic069x.u14	Minister, I am well aware of the problem facing the officials responsible for providing the information. I certainly don't want to blame you. They rightly do not want to give people the wrong information, because then there will be more problems. I understand that the period has been short. There are also people who have subsequently pointed out to me that they have received a very good answer to their questions. However, a number of things are not yet clear. People will accept that, too. However, I understand that the period of real blocking has been rather short, but also that the files of people who asked for information have been delivered to everyone and no one has fallen between the meshes of the net. I must therefore assume that the files have been followed up. It was once said that all 55-plussers would get information about their retirement. During the previous legislature, that information never came to everyone and was never made up for it. The reason I asked this question again was to make sure that everyone who had questions received an answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic069x.u15	Mr President, since this was the same subject, Mrs Cassart-Mailleux decided to withdraw her question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic069x.u16	I didn't have that information.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic069x.u17	Mr Minister, I tabled this question a moment ago, but it is still very topical. As you know, a proposal for a law from my political group is intended to provide legal cohabitants with the same life pension scheme as married couples. As a liberal, I defend the principle of free choice for every person. In order for this principle to apply, it is necessary to remove the differentiations that exist at the legal level, depending on whether a decision has been taken for completely private reasons. Moreover, this is a fairly large-scale social development. Indeed, a press article of which I have read indicated that the percentage of couples in legal cohabitation had increased from 3% in Flanders in 1991 to 12% today. The figures are probably similar in the rest of our country. Unfortunately, this proposal has not been implemented under the previous legislature, which is why I intend to resubmit it in this Parliament. It is in this spirit that I have read with great pleasure the passage of the government agreement on this subject. The text mentions a modernisation of the family dimension of pension schemes and an opening of derived rights to legal cohabitants, in particular with regard to the survival pension. Minister, can you give me more details on the government's project in this area? How do you intend to deal with it and on what timetable? Can you inform me about the legal differences that still exist today between the pension schemes of legal cohabitants and married couples? What measures will you give priority to?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic069x.u18	Mr President, Mrs Jadin, as you know, the modernization of the family dimension of the pension system is part of the government agreement. In the first half of 2015 – and I answer in part to the previous questions – the government will set up the National Pensions Committee (NPC) to deal with this and a series of other issues. The National Pension Committee will take charge of the reform as a whole and will try to better respond to changes in society. One of the topics that will be discussed will be the right of the legal cohabitant to a survivor's pension. As you have pointed out, society has evolved significantly in recent years. Thus, the Act of 23 November 1998 provides a legal framework in civil matters for legal cohabitants. It grants them rights and obligations similar to those of marriage. Other legislation has followed, particularly with regard to income taxes. The right to a survivor's pension for the legal cohabitant could not be realized in the previous legislature because of the budgetary impact of such a reform. In statutory pension schemes, therefore, being married remains the condition for the benefit of derived rights and being a legal cohabitant does not give rise to a right to a survivor's pension. However, recently, following two decisions of the Constitutional Court, the legislation on survivor's pension has changed somewhat. It now takes into account the duration of legal cohabitation when it is followed by a marriage to determine whether the condition of a year of marriage is fulfilled in order to qualify for a surviving spouse's pension. This measure has recently been implemented, in a law of 25 April 2014 for the self-employed, a law of 5 May 2014 for the employed and a law of 15 May 2014 for the public sector to take account of these two decisions of the Constitutional Court. The National Pension Committee will obviously have to examine this issue and examine the compatibility, in particular with budgetary requirements.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic069x.u19	Minister, I had the opportunity to ask the same question to your predecessor, who had also told me about the budgetary dimension of such regime alignment. However, this remains totally unfair, aberrant and no longer in line with the evolution of our society. The fact that the Constitutional Court has to decide is that the principle of equality is considered to be undermined. He's being questioned, and they're trying to correct him, as you exposed him to me. I hope that solutions can be found, especially money. I know this is a particularly difficult exercise for the government as a whole. Thank you, Minister, for your answers and for the accuracy of those answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic069x.u20	Mr President, Mr Minister, like those of my colleagues, my question is somewhat dated. It has lost its relevance, because I wanted to ask you about your meeting with the Ministers of Education of the three Communities last Thursday 20 November. I note that this issue was also on the agenda of this morning's Consultation Committee, which allows us to get back to the news. Moreover, we will certainly still have the opportunity to address this issue. As part of the pension reforms you are announcing, what will be the special fate of teachers? Of course, other categories of workers may also be involved. I am thinking in particular of the consequences of the abolition of the diploma bonus, the extension of the reference period and the inclusion of total or partial career breaks in the calculation of the pension. Mr. Minister of Pensions, I would like to take stock of this interview with you: what was the result of your interview with the Ministers of Education this Thursday, November 20? What commitments have been made by you? Do you have any projections of the consequences of the pension reforms announced with regard to the minimum career duration of teaching and the impact of the change in the calculation rules on their pension amount? In November, you announced that their career would be de facto extended, which deserves to be objected to. Is there an exception scheme for career duration, career interruption periods and the calculation of teachers' pensions?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic069x.u21	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on Thursday 20 November I met with the Ministers of Education of the three Communities; they were able to express their concerns. I have been able to provide them with a variety of clarifications on the real impact of the phasing out of the diploma bonus, which is an essential object of their concerns. Thus, I was able to confirm to them that the abolition of the diploma bonus will have an effect only on the career condition, to leave for early retirement, and that it will only occur from 2016. In relation to the government agreement, this is an amendment: the reform is postponed for a year, mainly for technical reasons which imposed this postposition. I have sometimes heard the reflection that teachers should work 6 or 7 more years. I asked the administration to object to this. The Commission therefore carried out simulations to measure the actual impact of the measures taken. In the current state of the proposals – but other proposals have been made to Committee A next Friday – I had a meeting earlier at 9 a.m. with all the governments of the federated entities and the federal government, and the pension component was dealt with at the request of the French Community. I was able to explain that the consultation with the Communities would take place both within Committee A and within the National Pension Committee. In fact, when teachers' pensions are discussed within the National Pension Committee, they will be discussed in a specific committee with the Communities, with the teaching staff under the supervision of the Communities, even if the pensions depend on the federal government. The definition of how to implement the abolition of the diploma bonus is therefore currently subject to social consultation. I hope that this week we will be able to reach a conclusion on new proposals, of which you have probably already been able to read in the press yesterday. The aim is to ensure that persons who were able to apply for a TBS in the Flemish Community or a DPPR in the French Community are exempted from this abolition of a diploma bonus. It is simply a matter of justice, for some have not asked for it and have remained active and we do not intend to punish those who have remained active. We are moving towards this measure. This is in any case what will be proposed to the social partners next Friday. On the other hand, another injustice has arisen. Those who had studied for two or three years would be impacted in full very quickly, 6 months a year. Those who had completed 2 years of study were going to do so in 4 years, while those who had completed 3 years of study were going to do so in 6 years, and those who had completed longer studies were going to be impacted in full later years. So we're looking at a way not to apply a six-month period for everyone. This includes a shorter period for those who have completed a two-year course and a shorter period for those who have completed a three-year course. Another proposal is to provide for exceptions based on the age of the persons concerned. You know that the government agreement provides for an exception for people aged 58 and 59. The former will have to work up to one year, while the latter will have to work up to two more years. We will try to put in place a measure for 57-year-olds who should also take up to two more years. Persons aged 55 and 56 should work up to three additional years. Indeed, on the basis of administrative simulations, I have always defended the idea that the impact of the measure on teachers would be one to three years. Obviously, anyone who has a very short career will be impacted a little more. But as far as "normal" careers are concerned, the additional period of work will be – I repeat – from one to three years. On the other hand, I would point out that there will be no negative impact on the amount of the pension. Even those whose careers are not complete and who will have to work longer will benefit from an increase in the amount of their pension. This is not an ideological choice, but a mathematical logic. With regard to the calculation of the pension, in accordance with the Government Agreement, career breaks will still be eligible in the future as long as they are motivated. In this context, an additional 12 months of eligibility is provided for under certain conditions which I will not recall here. You know them. However, career interruption must be based on certain grounds.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic069x.u22	Thank you for these first clarifications and for your openness to adjustments. You mentioned simulations carried out at your request by the services of the Pension Office. Are these documents accessible to parliamentarians? It would be interesting for you to pass them on so that we can objectiveise the debate. I take note of the adjustments related to what I would call potentially acquired rights, i.e. the rights of people towards the end of their careers, who could have activated certain rights but did not do so and who would remain in a position to do so. It is a form of smoothing in relation to specific cases. However, within the overall framework of the debate on pensions, and in particular the definition of heavier occupations, some teaching functions are more difficult than others, depending on the context, socio-economic context, level of education. I am thinking of maternal education or technical education. We are waiting for a finer approach. As far as the question of valuing career breaks is concerned, the debate is not just about teachers. It seems to us, and it has been pointed out by others, that the government is misguided, on the one hand, in relation to the objective that people work longer (to enable them to do so, it may be easier to adjust their working time) and, on the other hand, in relation to the problem of non-employment of young people. A teacher who takes a part-time career break frees up a place for another teacher, often younger, and allows him to integrate into the labour market. It's a way of sharing work time. You're also talking about the concept of part-time pension. We're curious to see it evolve. Agree on the adjustments. We take note of that. Good if there's an agreement on that. But overall, it seems to us that this reform does not take sufficient account of the specific nature of careers. We will have an opportunity to debate it again. If we can have access to these projections, I think it would be useful.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic069x.u23	Mr President, Minister, I had already asked this question at the end of last year. It keeps a certain timeliness because, again yesterday, an article in the newspaper Le Soir dealt with this subject. The current debate is who will guarantee the minimum rates of return on group insurance. Today, the saver is quite satisfied because his rate of return is guaranteed by law and varies between 3.25% and 3.75%. On the other hand, insurance companies are very concerned about this second pillar of the pension. Indeed, the insurers who have to invest this money must stay away from any risky investment and concentrate on safer products, such as government bonds and government bonds, which no longer yield a return similar to that guaranteed. This may eventually pose serious problems when paying premiums when people take up their pensions. Insurers may no longer be able to guarantee such returns. Minister, you have stated that everyone is entitled to group insurance. We can see that this is a certain success because, today, almost 75% of workers already have insurance through this second pillar. What is your perspective on this issue, knowing that the subject is under discussion at the National Labour Council? Do you already have a satisfactory solution in this regard, both for insurance companies and for their customers? Is it possible to balance the system over time? I would like to hear from you about this.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic069x.u24	Mr President, this is a crucial issue since the supplementary pension component (second pillar) is essential to ensure sufficient purchasing power for future generations at the time of their pension, on the one hand, to guarantee them a dignified life and, on the other hand, to enable economic growth in our society. The government's will is to generalize the second pillar. The rates of 3.25% for employer contributions and 3.75% for personal contributions are now totally disproportionate to the 10-year OLO rate, which is the benchmark in terms of insurance company investments. They cannot place everything in actions because this would create too much uncertainty in the constitution of reserves. The OLO rate is now 0.63%. If I'm not mistaken, it was still 4% in 2011. That is, the phenomenal speed of falling this rate. Perhaps the European measures of the European Central Bank will ensure that this rate is raised. I hope so, because we still need a minimum of inflation. To date, we are in any case in a major gap with the market. It is difficult for insurers to ensure a return. Moreover, they have reduced these yields. AG Insurance has announced that it is now 1.50%. But in the end, this mismatch mainly affects employers! They're the ones who guarantee the rate, not the insurers. It is therefore no longer in their interest to encourage the creation of second pillar pensions, since it is increasingly expensive for them. There is a real problem here. I therefore intend to submit a proposal to the National Labour Council. Indeed, I am not just going to ask him to work on the subject because this has already been done by the previous government; a lot of other issues have been examined such as the harmonization of the statutes, for example. I will very quickly make a proposal to link (not equal) the guaranteed rate of return to the market rate. Indeed, it is a matter of not having to introduce a new bill whenever there are significant variations. We'll try to find some automaticity of connection. However, a medium term must be found, since the worker must also have an interest in establishing a second pillar pension. If he is offered 0.63%, this will not satisfy him. An attempt must be made to strike a balance between encouraging employers to encourage the system and encouraging workers to register. We cannot, of course, remain at this stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic069x.u25	Minister, thank you. I note with interest that you will find a solution. I hear you're going to work on a long-term basis so you don't have to rethink the model every time a fluctuation occurs. I count on your inventiveness to find the solution because this second pillar is indeed essential for all.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic069x.u26	Mr President, Minister, in an interview you gave to La Libre Belgique, published on Monday 12 January 2015, you justify the abolition of pension bonuses by stating that this measure has mainly benefited high pensions. This was not a great revelation. You said it here in committee and in plenary. So I was not surprised by this statement. The reality is quite different, but I have already had the opportunity to mention it here in committee. Indeed, the latest study available from the ONP on the pension bonus shows that this bonus applies to all pension levels and, in the first place, to pensions of between EUR 1 000 and EUR 1 250 per month. This graph shows that more than a quarter of the pension bonuses concerned these pensions. In addition, in the same interview, you indicated that the government's goal is for a quarter of the population to work up to 66 or 67 years of age. At other times, however, you mentioned 10% of workers who were going to be involved in work beyond the age of 65. Minister, what source does it give you to say that pension bonuses mostly benefit high pensions? If, following the ONP study, you find that the information you previously had was incorrect, will you go back to this deletion? What are the government's objectives with respect to the proportion of the population it wants to work beyond the age of 65? 10 or 25%? Can you inform me of the elements that prompted the government to talk about objectives rather than estimates, and to review these targets upwards? If so, what steps will be taken to achieve these new 25% targets?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic069x.u27	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I thank Mr Daerden for his question, which will allow me to clarify things because I am the object of a disinformation campaign of which you know the origin. Obviously, it is sometimes difficult to maintain objectivity in the debate. First of all, your chart, which I studied but I already knew, is no longer relevant: it relates to the pension bonus as it existed before Mr Di Rupo and his government changed it. At that time, your chart was up to date. It is no longer so: the pension bonus was significantly reduced under the previous government. In fact, the old conditions allowed a pension bonus to be granted to someone with a very short career. It was possible on condition that it was still active after the age of 62. That's for the previous rule. It has been abolished and modified: now it is necessary to have a long career in order to get the bonus in the second frame. The situation has changed completely. Your graph no longer matches the news at all. Even if it was still, the columns are presented in absolute values; they do not indicate the proportion of people under a particular type of pension who receive a job bonus. The number is in absolute terms, so it has no purpose in relation to the debate we are dealing with, i.e. whether it is the high, the average or the low pensions that benefit the most. Obviously, sticks are higher for medium and low pensions: they make up the majority of pensions, which in no way indicates the proportion of beneficiaries of the pension bonus. I remember the reflection of our colleague Gilkinet, who started the debate on the subject, without me having mentioned it. In committee, he said that high pensions benefit from the pension bonus. This is the thesis of Ecolo, on which one may or may not agree. The truth is that, as modified by the previous government, the pension bonus applied only to long careers. From then on, it concerned many workers who had started a career very early, such as workers, surface technicians and others; despite the pension bonus, these people were not interested in working more, which we can understand. The pension bonus therefore had little impact on them. That is what I have explained and, of course, maintain. On the other hand, in short careers and in the lowest pensions, there was no possibility of pension bonuses. The fact that the pension bonus was an eminently social measure in its current version is not correct. It was an interesting measure, I don't deny it. But a government agreement is a compromise agreement and we decided not to do any malus because it was quite destructive about the purchasing power of pensioners. So we decided to delete the bonus-malus system as a whole. With regard to the number of people who will go up to this or that age, you have to think of cutting off the ducks' legs! The Administration of Pensions has given me very clear figures, we are less than 10% of people who actually work up to the age of 65. I'm not saying they're in the pension system, I'm saying "who actually work." I confirm this figure by less than 10%. Moreover, there is not a single expert who will say that this is not true and all existing publications confirm this! In addition, I have never spoken of those who will go up to 67 years of age. I said that those who would go beyond the age of 65 and 66 would make more or less a quarter of the population. It's an estimate because we can't probe people's intentions. It is likely that we will not have a major increase up to 67 years of age since we have not changed the reference career, which is 45 years of age. If we had put that figure at 47, there would have been a much greater impact. Not only did we not change career duration, but we kept exceptions for long careers. I therefore maintain my previous estimates.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic069x.u28	Mr President, Minister, as far as the first part is concerned, it makes me smile when you talk about the period before the last pension bonus reform, under the previous government, and the period after it. Indeed, depending on what suits you, you argue depending on one or the other to show that a system is interesting or not. I think, at some point, it is necessary to avoid playing too much with this. If this was changed, it was to make the bonus board more attractive. And if you want to rely on recent figures, take out the figures from the moment you took your reform, that is to say at the end of 2014, to say that the graph is no longer applicable and that it is in higher pensions that the bonus was above all profitable. Minister, do you have updated figures? I find it too intuitive to respond by saying that the reform has changed the chart. That's my reaction to your theory. Next, to say that binding the amount of pensions,...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic069x.u29	Mr. Daerden, do you accept the minister interrupting you?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic069x.u30	But of course, Mr President, we are here in a constructive dialogue.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic069x.u31	The only thing that I am asking for is that the question-and-answer session should not re-examine the debate that took place during the discussion of the general policy note.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic069x.u32	Mr President, I would just like to make a point. I understand Mr. Daerden's question. But, in fact, I would not be able to give figures on the new application of the pension bonus since it has only been in force since 2014. So, honestly, I have no figures yet on the effect of the restrictions imposed by the reform decided by the previous government, since it takes a year after the early retirement age. But, of course, since a longer career is required to take his bonus, my interpretation is fair and the objective figures will make me right.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic069x.u33	So you take a measure based on an a priori.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic069x.u34	No, we didn't take any measurements.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic069x.u35	But yes, deletion.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic069x.u36	That's not what I mean.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic069x.u37	And I understand that under a government agreement, sometimes less interesting things have to be conceded.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic069x.u38	No, I don't.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic069x.u39	And I understand that it wasn't really what you wanted.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic069x.u40	Not at all. I am talking about the reform of the previous government, I am not talking about it. I say that the effect of the bonus following the reform of the previous government only came into effect in 2014.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic069x.u41	I understand well, but before that, you were talking about a balance within the framework of the government agreement, namely that no malus was registered, but that the removal of the bonus was a necessity, that this measure was not necessarily so bad... I understand that it was not really what you wanted, but that you had to deal with the government agreement that was put in your hands, in any case with regard to the pension theme. I also have a consideration of absolute values. And the graph is set in absolute value. But the person receiving a pension of the order of 1 000 or 1 250 euros may give more importance to the few additional euros in order to maintain his standard of living and sometimes exceed the poverty line. Thus, euro also count differently depending on the amount that is collected and may be more important than daily life. Given Mr Gilkinet's thesis, you used it and reused it with your little paper at different times. I understand you're a member of his thesis. Personally, I do not adhere to his or yours in this matter! Let's be clear! As far as the pension bonus is concerned, I continue to say that its abolition is a bad reform. With regard to the 10 or 25 per cent, I understand that this is not an objective but an estimate. You think, on an intuitive basis, that the current 10% of the population working up to the age of 65 will become 25% who will work beyond the age of 65, up to the age of 66 and 67, and that your wish is to be able to reach these percentages, without changing the career duration of 45 years, which I am delighted to hear.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic069x.u42	Mr President, Minister, I have a question about the interpretation and consequences of the legislation that has been in force since January, which makes termination, farewell and dismissal allowances a wage. In what way is this charged in conjunction with the pension as a wage? The consequence for people who retire before the age of 65 is that this will be taken into account in view of the accumulation of a pension with a benefit. That is my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic069x.u43	Mr President, Mrs Becq, for the calculation of pensions, the termination, farewell and dismissal allowances, as you yourself say, are regarded as wages, spread over the period to which they relate. Since 1 January 2015, this principle of spreading the dismissal allowance is also applied at the end of the career. If you take up your pension, this leads to the accumulation of the pension with an authorised occupational activity. This means that if the amount of the salary taken into account is higher than the limit for authorised activity, the pension is reduced or suspended. If you do not take up your pension but wait for the period covered by the termination, farewell and dismissal allowances to end, the allowance is taken into account as a wage and registered as working days in the individual pension account. This means, in other words, that years are added to the career of the person concerned, which results in a higher figure rather than a lower amount of pension. Since 1 January 2015, this regime of authorised activity has been relaxed. The reduction in the pension will always be proportional to the excess. In addition, any 65-year-old pensioner and any person who proves a full career of 45 years may accumulate the salary unlimited with the pension, which means that the dismissal allowance cannot in any case mean a retirement delay for those persons.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic069x.u44	Thank you, Minister, for your clear answer. I think that it can also partly alleviate the concern by the way in which your answer has been formulated.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic069x.u45	Mr President, Minister, my question concerns the social dialogue that you had with the government unions on Friday, specifically on diploma qualification. In reply to another question, you have already said which direction that is heading. My question was to find out how you would deal with the calculation and entry into force of the diploma certificate in this consultation. There is, after all, concern that transitional measures can also be discussed in this consultation. The Diploma Certificate Scheme has now been decided to enter into force in 2016, with six months a year. That was the principle. This means that an official who retires within 10 years and has already completed a career of 30 years would lose that bonification completely because of a shorter transitional period. The following is a thought exercise, not in consultation with the unions. One could take into account the fact that someone has already completed half of his career and thus retains half of his bonification. This is also a possible arrangement which could be taken into account and which could be included in a transitional arrangement. Moreover, as career conditions for early retirement also increase until 2019, there is concern that longer work will be required. Thus, the combination of the reduction of the diploma bonus with the extension of the career will be easily achieved later. You have just referred to that rule of one and two years. People who are working on this and who are in such a concrete situation have also told me: if this diploma is coming and they have, for example, just reached the age of retirement, but if six months are deducted from it every year, then they are going to postpone the whole bonification period for example five years because they are always just chasing after it. The measure launched as a principle thus produces some effects. In doing so, it is necessary to examine in detail the consequences in the various situations. I believe that the trade unions play a very important role in this because trade unions and the social partners can bring forward cases in order to avoid, as we have seen in the past, having to come back to a number of things later because we had not meant them or had not seen their effect. You mentioned the measure, which provides for a restriction for 58- and 59-year-olds. You said there would also be a restriction for 55-, 56- and 57-year-olds. Can I assume that this restriction relates not only to early retirement but also to the cumulation of measures? If the age is moved forward because of the early retirement scheme, together with a diploma certificate and even a more favourable tantième, the combination of these measures would lead to a maximum amount. Can we then increase the amount for each measure? Are you prepared to discuss this government proposal with the social partners and create more margin?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic069x.u46	Mr. Chair, Minister, this Wednesday, January 21, following a demonstration, you received representatives from the public service unions. They are concerned about the government's willingness, translated into the terms of the government declaration, to align their regime with other regimes. I am thinking in particular of two elements. First of all, there is the abolition of the graduation bonus. Second, the "mixed" pension for the contractual period should no longer be treated as the statutory period, as is currently the case. At the same time, other changes are more or less announced. Nevertheless, the representatives of the civil service unions feared a reduction in the amount of public servants' pensions. I have already heard that the pensions of civil servants are too high and higher than those of employees. However, a 2009 study shows that when the second pillar is included, with the replacement rate, public pensions are no higher than those of private sector employees. In doing so, to say that the pension of public servants is too important is to send a bad message. Moreover, by reducing public service pensions, you make the public service less attractive, which will have a very negative impact on the competitiveness of the public sector and the quality of services provided to citizens. Minister, what were the protesters' demands? What was your position on these claims? Did you get a deal? Since then, I have had the opportunity to meet with various representatives of the unions who have informed me that they remain very concerned. How do you intend to guarantee the attractiveness of the public service? What about the alignment with other regimes and the measures envisaged by the government?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic069x.u47	Mrs Becq, thank you for your questions, which once again allow me to emphasise the importance I attach to the social dialogue associated with the government's pension reforms. On 21 January 2015, I received the syndicated representatives from the public sector, who expressed their concern about the planned reforms. As far as pensions are concerned, I have told them that it is my firm intention to continue the negotiations within the A Committee on the first series of reforms to be imposed. In this respect, I informed them that I had received the various questions that were put to me at the beginning of January and that I would, together with my colleagues in the government, examine to what extent we can give them a favourable outcome. That is how I intend to take additional transitional measures, which I mentioned earlier, in order to ease the reform of the diploma bonus. Mrs Becq is absolutely right. There are several measures at the same time. When taken separately, they have an effect x, y or z. On the other hand, when taken together, they do not have an effect x + y + z. That's one of the difficulties. A first measure is to modulate the implementation of the abolition of the bonus according to the number of years of study covered by the diploma. A second measure aims to limit the effects of this abolition according to the age reached in 2016 by the official or by the teacher. The third measure aims to ensure that all civil servants, including teachers who were able to apply before 1 January 2015 for pre-pension leave, will maintain their diploma bonus in full. The measures, together with other measures, will be discussed in the A Committee, which will meet next Friday, 30 January. The measures contained in the government agreement aimed at tightening age and career conditions for early retirement will be the subject of further negotiations. As regards the eligibility of the years provided for as contractual in the calculation of the public pension, social consultation will still have to take place in parallel with the establishment of the second pillar of pension in favour of public service contractors. With regard to mixed pensions, we are not going to drastically reduce the contractual pension without first introducing the second pillar for contract workers. This possibility already widely used in Flanders is much less so in Wallonia. The measures are parallel. We're not going to do one without the other. I would like to stress once again that the abolition of the diploma bonus will have no impact on the amount of the pension, since it concerns only the right to an early pension. On the contrary: those who will have to work a little longer will have the opportunity to complete their career and therefore to receive a higher pension. I would add, Mr Daerden, in relation to your last consideration, that I do not stigmatize one diet in relation to the other. I simply think that we need to move towards greater harmonisation, but that there are specificities that need to be kept. We are not going to remove the different regimes; we are going to keep their specificities. Today, however, we are entitled to ask the question of social cohesion between the different regimes. We need to find a system that simplifies things. That is the origin of the point system. It is a matter of achieving some harmonisation. The number of points will remain partly related to heavy trades, to the specificity of trades. All the specificities can be integrated into a single point scheme which will apply to the three schemes. But each regime will still retain a specificity that will be marked by the different accumulation of points.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic069x.u48	Thank you, Minister, for your reply and for your respect for social dialogue. It is a good thing that you want to negotiate to come up with good measures that can be digested by everyone, without all being passed on to the generations to come. We want to strike a balance in this respect. I would just like to comment on what Mr Daerden said about officials, both contractual and permanent officials. An important aspect is the fact that there is no supplementary pension for civil servants in the public sector. For some contractual employees at municipal level in Flanders that is a little bit. I think this is an important point. You touched that in your answer, too. You want to achieve simplification and harmonisation. We hope that the points system will help in this. In that sense, the link you made between a supplementary pension and contractual staff is important. It is important to bear in mind, however, that civil servants' pensions and employees' pensions are treated equally, that a large proportion of workers have supplementary pensions, which are currently denied to civil servants. That is an element that we will have to take with us.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic069x.u49	Mr President, Minister, I have some elements of your answer. First, on the aspect of the mixed pension. The overall reform will be linked to the second pillar. The sequence is very important, because one step does not go without the other. Even if, like you, I know that several communes in Flanders are already applying the system, you know as well as I do that communal finances are generally experiencing difficulties. I therefore wonder how it will be possible to finance the second pillar in many of our municipalities. This is a global reflection that should not be simplistic; it is not a trial of intent, but I am glad that both will be fully linked. Second element. I am pleased with your response and your willingness to maintain specific features for public service pensions. It's necessary and important. As part of your consultation, we will see to what extent you will agree to maintain them. I feel more open to you than some government statements would suggest. Nevertheless, I will draw your attention to the fact that, in absolute terms, it may seem interesting to simplify situations, but provided that this is not to the detriment of workers. Finally, with regard to the transitional measures for the upgrading of diplomas, we should remain very careful. If you want to apply it, it is certain that the transitional measures are preferable. Let's keep an eye on it. In addition, harmonisation should not necessarily be based on the least advantageous scheme, i.e. without any increase in diplomas, but perhaps on the contrary, i.e. a broader scheme affecting all workers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic069x.u50	Mr President, Minister, you know that the figures are important to public opinion. In the newspaper La Meuse du Groupe Sud-Presse of January 16, 2015, you said that current pensions account for more than 50% of our social security expenditure. We studied the figures transmitted by the Study for the Ageing of the Population Committee of the Supreme Council of Finance and published in July 2014. They seem to be a good basis for me to discuss. We have discovered figures other than those advanced. In terms of gross domestic product (GDP), in 2013, out of a total of 26.4% of social security expenditure, the committee gives us a figure of 10.6% for pensions. With our study office, we applied a rule of three to calculate the proportionality of 10.6 compared to 26.4 to try to see the actual percentage of these expenses. So we divided 10.6 by 26.4. We have reached 40.15 per cent, which is slightly lower than the 50 per cent reported in the press. Moreover, the Study Committee on Aging is also making a projection for 2019, 2030, 2040 and 2060. At no time did these projections reach the figure of 50%. Therefore, even replying to them is not correct. In 2060, for $30.6 billion, 14.7% is reported. Therefore, we are concerned. The report also states that the remaining 30% of social security expenditure goes to unemployment and activation policy. Moreover, social security expenditures between 2013 and 2019 would increase from 26.4 per cent to 26.9 per cent. I'm on page 6 of the report. Could you correct the figures in the press so that public opinion can have the exact figures?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic069x.u51	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Hedebouw, everything depends on the numbers we take as a reference. Your numbers are those of 2013. Mine are the ones from 2015. That makes an important difference. On the one hand, pensions have increased by a few billion since 2013 in the 2015 projection. On the other hand, the social security budget has decreased as a result of the transfer of family allowances to the Regions. The figures for 2013 are no longer correct, and I believe that we should refer more to the figures for 2015, which is EUR 41.5 billion if we take the whole pension sector. The social security budget is 70.6 billion. This is obviously questionable because it depends on what is put "in the package". The message, on the other hand, is quite clear. We've grown from 25 billion to 41.5 billion euros in nine years. We must therefore be aware of the importance of the problem. I am trying to show here that if we don't reform, that won't be the case. We need reform. The proportion of pensions in the social security budget continues to increase. Today we are at 41.5 billion euros. In Belgium, however, the social security budget, which includes everything, including family allowances, amounts to around €80 billion. So we're almost half the budget for social security. I'm holding it. I would point out that public sector pensions represent EUR 14.5 billion which are not directly in the social security budget but which still count, I believe. Otherwise, we don't have a good idea of the total pension budget. All decision-makers need to be alerted to the need for reform, given the rate of increase in pensions. On the basis of future years, European Commission statistics show that between 15% and 16% of GDP will be reached in the area of pensions. 1% of GDP is huge! That's 4 billion euros! We are the country with the largest increase. In France, the rate is very high but it has not increased in the same way and in Germany, the rate is about the same as at home and it will increase less. If we increase by 5% to 6% of GDP by 2050, that will be a package of billions and we will have to pay attention to it! That's the content of my message and it doesn't go beyond it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic069x.u52	Mr.Minister, we will speak immediately about the other figures that you are putting forward, but I take note of some flexibility with the reality. You withdraw the family allowance from the 50% figure. I look forward to the figures for 2015 because the report on which I based myself was from July 2014. It is important that all parliamentarians have access to the 2015 figures as soon as possible, certainly when there is a political battle over our pensions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic069x.u53	Minister, in De Standaard of 16 January 2015, you communicate that in Belgium work is stopped for an average of 59 years. That is one of the lowest figures in Europe. I found another figure in the European Commission's White Paper on pensions. On page 25 of the Dutch version of the White Paper, with the figures for the different Member States, I found the age of 61.2 for men and 61.9 for women in Belgium. Could you possibly give me some information about that difference, which is not nothing in the context of the pension debate? After all, there is a difference between the number you communicate in the media and the number Belgium sends to the European institutions. I also have questions about the relative aspect of the figures. This is not about the lowest ages in Europe. In Austria, women stop on average 2.5 years earlier than in Belgium, at 59.4 years. In France, men stop on average one year earlier, at 60.3 years old, and women stop on average two years earlier than in Belgium. In Luxembourg, men stopped on average three years earlier, at 58.1 years and women on average nearly five years earlier than in Belgium, at 57 years. Do you also want to correct those figures if necessary? You will understand, of course, that the relative aspect of the political debate has a certain interest in the political arguments if one wants to compare them with other countries.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic069x.u54	The White Paper to which you refer dates from 2012. I have another reference, that of 2013. You are based on the Commission's White Paper, which was drawn up in 2012. However, the figures I cited come from the 2013 OECD pension overview. As you will have noticed, I use as often as possible the same source. Indeed, when one moves from one to the other and one mentions figures, it is important to have a correct and honest approach. I therefore confirm that the average age at which people leave the labour market in Belgium is less than 60 years. The graphics are very clear, I can give you a copy. These are figures drawn from the latest OECD report. I do not yet have the next report on this subject. I would therefore like to make it clear that the publication of the report before me is more recent than the European White Paper. For the 60-64 age group, this is the same source. The OECD report, page 28, indicates 18%. This figure has increased slightly over the past two years, but it remains at half the average. The employment rate remains +/- 20% for the 60-64 age group and the OECD-Europe standard is 40%. So we're in half. That's the message! I want to fight with commas, but that's the message! We must not drown the fish, but go back to the essentials. The message indicates that we are leaving earlier than elsewhere in retirement. The employment rate is too low between the ages of 60 and 64. In addition, it is important to distinguish the employment rate from the participation rate. It is reality and deny it, obscuring it by a quarrel of numbers does not remove this reality!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic069x.u55	Mr. President, I'm a little worried. I do not yet know all the workings of the transmission of figures to the OECD. In any case, I know that the White Paper, at European level, is passed on to the European Union by your ministry. I'm worried. Could I imagine that two different versions of Belgian figures will be passed on to such respectable institutions as the OECD?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic069x.u56	The OECD really takes real activity into account. Sometimes the figures include people who are available in the labour market but who will never return to work. It's kind of like the numbers trying to figure out who's up to 65 in real activity or not. If we take the strict "board" figures, of course, we're over 10%. But many people do not have the status of a pensioner but no longer have a real status as a worker or an activity.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic069x.u57	But if we follow that slope, then all the numbers will become relative.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic069x.u58	That is what is important. There is a debate at the moment on the availability of pre-pensioners. We know that. The argument used by those who find it scandalous to demand availability is that pre-pensioners will never work again. It has always been so. Would these be counted as active workers? You have to be reasonable.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic069x.u59	The two points of difference that were really very important, you then attribute them to the category of pre-pensioners that is excluded from OECD figures?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic069x.u60	I didn't say that. The statutes in the various OECD countries are not the same. It is not possible for them to calculate in this way. The numbers they give of activity are those. That's all I can say.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic069x.u61	I find it important to take up the figures Belgium gives to the European institutions in the political debates. Otherwise, it will create public suspicion that the minister would choose the most favourable figures to conduct his debate. I really don't want that feeling going through public opinion on such a sensitive subject as the pension issue, minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic069x.u62	We use OECD sources because it makes it possible to project all industrialised countries, whereas the European Commission does not have countries outside the European Union, such as Norway or Switzerland, and countries outside Europe. I think it makes more sense to take OECD statistics.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic069x.u63	The next item is Question No 1499 by Mr Hedebouw.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic069x.u64	Mr President, Minister, in La Libre Belgique and La DH of 2 January 2015,...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic069x.u65	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic069x.u66	I'm gonna be short. We have seen the Eurostat figures. You may have the same scepticism about European figures, but I could not print the document to you because, as you know, the Eurostat tables are very large and I should have come with a large poster. According to Eurostat, figures introduced by Belgium to Eurostat, the figure is 20%. In recent years, there has been a change of around 23%. For the last quarter of 2013, there was even 26% and for the second quarter 2014, 26.5%. Can you explain to me this significant variation with the figures advanced?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic069x.u67	Mr President, I am sorry, but I have already answered.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic069x.u68	Minister, if I may. Mr Hedebouw, I told you earlier that there were two questions for you alone. That's why the minister interrupted you and asked you to continue. If you do not ask the second question, it must be considered that you have waived it or, in any case, that it is included in the first question. That explains the Minister's reaction when he says he has already answered your question. When I give you the floor to the next question, this is the item on the next item on the Committee's agenda. If you do not follow the committee's agenda, it will no longer work. I therefore come to point 12 of the agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic069x.u69	In De Standaard of 16 January, you say the following, Minister: 'For the first time, pension expenditure exceeds the cape of EUR 40 billion.' You spoke to Mr Daerden about this earlier. Ten years ago, that was 25 billion. This actually gives the impression that pension expenditure has doubled in ten years. These figures seem to mislead us a little: the comparison over time is generally not done in absolute figures. Absolute figures give a distorted picture because two important factors are omitted: inflation, on the one hand, and prosperity growth, on the other. Relative figures are often used. The Study Committee on Ageing, the official body in Belgium responsible for calculating the total cost of ageing, reports on this. The latest report dates from July 2014: it contains the full 2013 figures. In 2013, 10.6 percent of our prosperity went to pensions. Ten years earlier, in 2003, that was 9.2 %. In ten years' time, therefore, the share of our wealth we spend on pensions has increased by 1.4 percentage points. Relatively, this is an increase of 15%. Total expenditure on social security continues to rise to 2040. After 2040, when the baby tree generation disappears from the population pyramid, they fall back. Well, that makes sense, actually. By 2060 over 45 years, total expenditure on social security will be 4.2 percentage points higher than today, the same committee says. An increase of 4.2 percentage points over 45 years is about 0.1 % per year. In other words, if our economy is going to increase with a low fee of 1% a year, it is enough that one tenth of growth goes to pensions. In terms of inflation, there was around 21,49 % inflation between 2004 and 2014. At least 5.4 billion of the absolute figures you are putting forward are already caused by inflation. Minister, do you not think it is more appropriate to use relative figures in the debate rather than absolute figures?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic069x.u70	Mr President, I note that Mr Hedebouw confirms my figures: 25 billion to 40 billion; in the 2015 budget we are even 41.5 billion. Thank you, Mr. Hedebouw, for that confirmation. However, let me give you some details on the pace of this increase. Talking about 1.4% within 10 years does not fully correspond to the truth. In fact, the percentage remained relatively stable for a whole period; at one point, an acceleration occurred. Taking two extremes to conclude an increase does not mean a linear increase; it can follow an asymptomatic curve. The problematic aspect lies mainly in the baby boom and the papy boom. The rate of increase has been in recent years and is now 1.4 per cent. Before the pace was much lower, whereas now it has accelerated sharply, which is normal given the effects of the baby boom; people born between 1950 and 1960 are now the largest cohorts of pension applicants. In addition, 1.4% may seem harmless to the public, but this amounts to €6 billion. These are important figures. It would not be responsible to make people believe that the increase is negligible, if not insignificant; on the contrary, it is necessary to explain its importance and the urgency of reform of the system.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic069x.u71	Questions Nos 1500 and 1501 by Mr Raoul Hedebouw are attached.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic069x.u72	Mr Minister, we have just discussed the thesis that you put forward in La Libre Belgique and La DH, namely that one in four people will have to work after 65 years. I was not allowed to take the floor, because it was a question from Mr Daerden, but I see a big difference between the statement 'will have to work' and 'working today up to 65 years'. How do you look at these numbers? A few weeks ago, when the strike movement was in an increasing dynamic, you replied to me in the press that only 5 to 10% of Belgians will have to work until 67 years and that I was exaggerating again. On January 12th, you said it was 25%. I would like to hear from you how many people in Belgium will have to work for up to 67 years. I read two versions in the press. It's time to choose which version is the right one. You say that only 6.1% of employees retire over 65 years. Nearly 95% of workers in Belgium have therefore left the labour market before 65 years. You explained that in Le Soir on January 2, 2015. I think those numbers are wrong. A much larger proportion of the population retires at 65 years. I believe that you are methodologically excluding an important part, namely all those who are looking for a job and all those who have a job but are unable to work because of illness. This is also reflected in an answer you gave to Mr Frédéric Daerden on 10 December 2014. He's gone, but that was an excellent question. In our view, therefore, you use a misdefinition of the concept of "active population'. If we depart from the restrictive definition, the average number of active persons up to 65 years is, according to Eurostat, equivalent to 5.2% in the European Union if we interpret all statistics in this way. The figure of 6,11 % suddenly becomes a lot less spectacular. Can you give us a more detailed explanation? I read in your reply to Mr Daerden's question, on page 146 of the written questions and answers, that, out of a total of 29 846, 20 643 people retire at 65 years. That's what you communicated. In addition, my question is the same. If I divide 20 643 by 29 846 I get to 69 %. Mr Minister, perhaps you could correct some of this?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic069x.u73	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I confirm all the figures I have already mentioned, as well as all the statements about the current situation and the objectives of the government. As I said in La Libre Belgique, the government's objective is for a quarter of the population to work beyond the age of 65. Today, less than 10% of the population works effectively until the age of 65. The 6.11% rate was communicated to me by Sigedis and the Pension Administration. This is not about workers who take their pension at age 65, but about those who are still active at that age. It is regrettable, in my view, to have this kind of discussion rather than to discuss the substantive issues of pension reform. I would point out that the ONP figures indicate that 60% of those who retire at age 65 receive either an allowance from the ONEM (unemployment, pension, time credit) or an allowance from their mutual fund. The periods covered by an allowance are treated as work for the calculation of the pension, but the figures are not based on an actual period of work. For further details, I refer you to Mr. Daerden's written question No. 4. The answer to the latter contains all the details on this subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic069x.u74	Mr President, Mr Minister, as part of the reform of pensions, methodologically, the idea is to ignore all those who are unemployed or who receive compensation from their mutual benefit. Recognize, however, that you take great freedom from reality. Politically, you assume that all these people are hidden pensioners, not victims of the economic crisis. I would remind you that most of the departures to pre-board are, however, part of this framework. You also don't take into account people who are sick at the end of their careers. For my part, I am surprised at this use of figures. Like you, I think it would be better to have a calm debate on pension financing. But, please, let us base ourselves on correct and unorientated figures.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic069x.u75	Mr President, Minister, you have said that, on the basis of the example of the Scandinavian countries, in all the countries where it has been decided to delay the pension age, there is a decrease in the unemployment rate of young people. Some parties also share this allegedly undemonstrable truth. I'm astonished at that. Here I have a graph showing the unemployment rate in Sweden and the unemployment rate in Denmark. It is a question of comparing countries which are in the same economic context but which have applied a different policy. You are right to say that in the 2000s there was a rather radical reform of pensions in Sweden, extending careers. I'm making another observation than you. In Denmark, there was stability for 2000 and an increase in 2008, with the economic crisis affecting all European countries. In Sweden, there is an increase in the youth unemployment rate, almost doubling. There's really a break with the year 2000. On the Swedish labour market, the fact of having extended careers has had a real impact on youth unemployment. Minister, can you clarify to me the thesis that, in the Scandinavian countries, there has been a reduction in youth unemployment by extending careers?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic069x.u76	Mr Hedebouw, I did not say that. Don't make me say things I've never said! I am particularly touched that you have followed so carefully my various statements which, I hope, will eventually convince you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic069x.u77	I doubt it!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic069x.u78	I simply found that where the exit age was the highest, it was generally in countries where there was a lower youth unemployment rate than elsewhere. That's a simple finding. The graph is very clear, the two curves are almost parallel, although there are sometimes exceptions. The best evidence is that in Belgium, where the exit age is the lowest, namely 59-60 years, one of the highest unemployment rates among young people in Europe is found. It's a reality. You deny it. I don't understand. I'm worried about this type of analysis. Belgium is a striking case. In other countries, in particular the Scandinavian countries – I have not distinguished them – there is a different direction: the unemployment rate for young people is generally lower and on average lower than at home and the rate of exit from work is generally higher than at home. That's just what I said and I keep it. Everyone agrees with this finding. You're the only one, the exception that confirms the rule!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic069x.u79	Minister, on the one hand, that is not what you said. I understand politically the little jump. I have taken exactly the terms of your sentence. You are trying to demonstrate a causal link between the length of extended careers and decreasing youth unemployment. We are well in this political debate. You are transforming the thesis that in countries where we work longer, the unemployment rate of young people is lower than in other countries. I repeat your own sentence: "We see that in countries where we have decided to work longer, there is a tendency to reduce youth unemployment." You will recognize that it is not at all the same thing! I understand why you're making this little leap of reasoning. Politically, it is not really valid. On the other hand, if you want to have the debate on the cause and effect link which I think is quite relevant, you should not take the Eurostat chart you have in your hands. It does not at all demonstrate the cause and effect link. Many other causes could explain why youth unemployment is higher in us than in Scandinavian countries. If you were to be interested – personally, I am passionate about – in the cause-and-effect relationship, in the causal link between a political measure aimed at making people work longer and youth unemployment, then I can only encourage you to take a specific country, and to analyse, within this country, the change of cause-and-effect, the fluctuation. As a trained biologist, I love this scientific analysis: we change a cause and study its effect. Scientifically, this is the most interesting approach. I'll give you my chart because our studies show a negative link, a negative correlation. I believe that for many young people, learning that there is a negative and non-positive correlation could change the current societal debate because it is actually about intergenerational solidarity. We will have an opportunity to discuss the figures again. I think it is worth refining this debate more precisely.
