ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic105x.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, since many issues are on the agenda, I will remind you of the rules. You must ask your questions briefly: in two or three minutes. The answer and reply must also be short. In principle, each point must take up to five to six minutes. I'm not 30 seconds or a minute away, but try to follow these rules. It is possible to ask the Minister for a written answer, so that the oral question is transformed into a written question. If you choose this option, the Minister will give you the text of her response at the end of the meeting. I also warned her that if she receives questions that she has already answered and for which no new information has been provided, she can report it and refer to her answer. Otherwise, we won't get out! Ms. de Coster-Bauchau announced that she would be a little late, as would Ms. Detiège. Mr. Miller, your patience is still under strain, but it's coming. Mrs. Jiroflée and Ms. Lanjri are not here.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic105x.u2	Madam Minister, on 2 February, I read in the written press that doctors do not treat a number of patients if they do not choose a single room, for which they may, of course, charge pay supplements. That attitude was condoned by the president of the medical syndicate, Marc Moens. I find that disturbing. To refuse to treat patients on the basis of their income or on the basis of certain choices they make according to what they find affordable is not only illegal, but also totally against deontology or ethics. The medical syndicates should condemn this very transparently and clearly. The Order of Doctors should act against this. You yourself, quite rightly, indicated that you condemn that practice. Madam Secretary, what can or will you do against doctors who refuse to treat patients in double or multiple rooms? What signal will you send to the medical syndicates about that? Will you sit with them? What's the finality of that?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic105x.u3	Madam Minister, I will not repeat what has already been said. I share Mrs De Coninck's concern. I would add that these practices can lead to hidden waiting lists or a two-speed medicine. The rest has already been mentioned by my colleague. You said in the press that patients can report their complaints to the Order, the hospital or the sickness funds, but it is also your responsibility to do something about it, not just that of the patient. Will you investigate any abuses, or have you done so already? What sanctions will you impose on the doctors who refuse patients? Will you take any other initiatives to solve that problem? What measures do you take to dive and avoid a two-speed medicine?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic105x.u4	Minister, I would like to add to my colleagues' questions and to link up with the objectives of the articles adopted in 2013 to prohibit fee supplements in two-bed rooms. The purpose of the law thus amended is, in particular, to guarantee access for all to care, but also to take into account the evolution within hospitals which were increasingly renouncing the common rooms to develop single or two-bed rooms. The goal is also to ensure a better quality of care. It is therefore not a question of allowing an increase in the costs or billings of benefits in chambers alone or in the event of the non-convention of certain doctors. Today, it is noted that some hospitals remove a maximum of two-bed rooms in order to make them individual rooms and thus regain a freedom of honoraria. It is even a question of pressure from some doctors on patients. Minister, is there a need for further legislative changes to create a framework? There is also the question of ethics and ethics for physicians, but also of honour and dignity. In doing so, it may be appropriate to remind physicians of the need for quality care and respect for patients. Minister, could you share with me your analysis of the situation? What solutions do you envisage in order to remedy the problems I have just mentioned?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic105x.u5	Mrs Fonck being absent, I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic105x.u6	Colleagues, the patient can freely choose his or her doctor, but this freedom of choice is not absolute. Situations in which the patient's choice is not respected are conceivable, such as when the patient has specific wishes or when the desired doctor is not available or as a result of the organization of an emergency or on-call service. It should be noted, however, that the only reason that the patient does not want to opt for a single room and therefore does not wish to pay fee supplements is not sufficient to limit his or her choice. Such an attitude is therefore against the doctor's deontology and this is confirmed by the Order of Doctors in its opinion of 22 February 2014. The National Council of the Order states that it is contrary to the medical doctrine of duty that the doctor refuses to take care of a patient simply because he refuses to choose an individual chamber. The Order has repeated that advice, although a few days after the matter came to the media, yet again. I also referred to the hospital law. The most recent revision of the admission certificate, the document signed by each patient at a hospitalisation and the choice of room, has been completed. It is clearly stated that the choice of doctor should not be restricted by the choice of room. I have made it quite clear from day one: such practices are totally unacceptable to me. Each patient is entitled to the best quality of care and also to the same accessibility to care. The solution will indeed have to be sought in the context of the overall reform of the hospital landscape, which is the reform of hospital financing, nomenclature and royal decree No. 78 includes. Mrs. Dedry, it is indeed up to me to respond, but I can only respond if a fact is reported. If a patient suffers this kind of discrimination, I call on him to let him know, either to the sickness fund, either through the Ombudsman or the hospital woman, or through the Order, but it must have been reported, if we are to be able to act. I would like to discuss the solution to the situation of fee supplements in the framework of a serene consultation, together with the doctors' unions, mutual societies and hospitals. We will have broad support and develop a lasting solution. We have already sat together with the medical syndicates on the matter. It is, of course, a very important point. We see throughout Europe that more and more single rooms tout court are being built in hospitals. This is a trend across Europe. The question is how we deal with this situation, certainly knowing that hospital funding must also take account of that fact. I do not want to make any preliminaries, but it is clear that such practices will not be allowed, even pending our reform of hospital funding.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic105x.u7	Madam Minister, thank you. Colleagues, those who have asked their question now have the right to reply. Those who have not been able to ask their question and who have heard the minister's answer will also be able to reply if they so wish.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic105x.u8	Madam President, I will be brief, given the many questions on the agenda. Madam Secretary, you yourself say that the issue of hospital funding is extremely urgent. There are many problems on the verge of that story, namely the funding that will distort a number of systems. We have to work fast. It's not an easy file, but we need to put a rush on it so we can finish it. I also have a suggestion. In the Zorgbedrijf Antwerpen we said that a single room is the norm. A single room should be available to everyone. That's also a trend. However, if you choose a double room, you get a discount. However, the standard is a single room, but if one prefers to lie down with someone one knows or to have more contacts, one gets a discount. People turn logic around. I don't know if that's possible, but I'm just giving it as a suggestion. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic105x.u9	Madam President, Minister, thank you for your clear answer. I understand that in the hospital funding file there is a lot of connection. The only danger is that everything will be linked to everything and it will be very difficult to solve all these problems. I take note of the fact that we also see this coming back to your proposals on hospital funding and the amendments to Royal Decree No. 78.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic105x.u10	Madam Minister, in response to your answer, I would say that the change in hospital funding and probably some harmonization of physician salaries, regardless of the other hospital budgets and following the KCE's suggestion, could no doubt provide solutions. I would find it interesting to send information to patients. Indeed, many people do not know their rights. In the event of hospitalization, it is necessary to provide them with information on their invoice. Perhaps it would be interesting to ask mutuals to do so. Thus, as soon as a patient goes to the hospital, he or she would know that he or she is entitled to receive such information. It is only once he has been informed that he can effectively report a case or file a complaint.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic105x.u11	Madam President, Madam Minister, the rules are clear and well known, because it is obviously unacceptable for doctors to refuse to take care of patients on the grounds that they are not in a single room and that, therefore, they would not be able to charge fees. These rules are known ethically and must be respected everywhere. This is the point you must, with your services, be able to assure yourself. These unacceptable practices are denounced by the doctors themselves. Fortunately, they are very limited. It is important to avoid making it a generality. Clearly, this situation is indicative of the difficult financial situation of hospitals. Let us recall the Maha study, which is conducted every year and which reports that 60% of hospitals are in the red. These are elements that need to be taken into account in the forthcoming reform of hospital funding. They should be integrated and taken into account.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic105x.u12	Madam Chair, Minister, I have come in the course of my response. I have heard at least that you are aware of the problem and that every effort must be made not to create a two-speed medicine in hospitals and to ensure that a person who chooses a double room or a common room is not despised by either specialist, even if Ms. Fonck claims that it is a minority. I am not talking about the phenomenon in quantitative terms but I think that there would be only one case, that it would be too much! I also think we need to think about what Mrs Gerkens said. When you're in hospital, it's sometimes planned, sometimes not. Sometimes in panic, you don't always take the financial measure of the choice. Hospitals and hospitals should be much more proactive in this area so that patients know what they will receive as an invoice. These are often painful and often put a large number of families in difficulty.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic105x.u13	Madam Minister, contrary to the rule, since there were replies when the questions had not been asked, I give you the floor if you wish to add anything, but I will not give the last word to the parliamentarians.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic105x.u14	I have said from the outset that it is unacceptable and unacceptable. In addition, no one has been able to tell me clearly what the ambush of the phenomenon is. However, every time it happens, it is unacceptable. According to one it's common practice, according to the other it's very minimal. Again: each case is one too many. I have therefore asked the mutualities to find out what the appeal is and on what scale this is being done. This is a very important fact that is part of hospital funding. In the meantime, however, patients should be informed about their rights. We have made the law on patients' rights in this committee. That law is over ten years old. It was also the task of the mutualities... not only of hospitals..................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Indeed, patients may not be assertive and informed enough, but the law has existed for more than ten years. However, it needs to be revised in many areas. On another occasion, Madam President, we should review the law, examine the extent to which it is still alive with patients and what the new elements are, such as this practice, which is unacceptable.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic105x.u15	Madam President, Madam Minister, we all know that the execution of acts of euthanasia is the subject of very strict procedures laid down both by law and by implementing orders. Among these procedures, I am concerned with the procedure for euthanasia at home, which provides that the products used will be handed over by a pharmacist in his own hand to the doctor against a prescription which he himself has signed. Once the procedure has been performed, the doctor is asked to return the vials completely or partially empty to the pharmacist. Minister, is the Federal Agency for Drugs and Health Products taking into account, in a comprehensive survey, products that are consumed and/or returned in this context? Is this control effective? Were there any statistics on the return of these euthanizing products? Do you also have geographical data for these statistics? Indeed, in the analysis of the documents, it seems that there are fewer statements in Wallonia. Is there any explanation for that? Finally, what types of checks are carried out to ensure strict compliance with the relevant legislation?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic105x.u16	Madam President, Mrs de Coster, federal drug legislation does not specifically regulate drugs used in euthanasia. All patients who use or do not use medicines that are delivered through pharmaceutical clinics as part of home palliative care may, at any time, bring back to the pharmaceutical officer their expired medicines not used for destruction, in accordance with Article 13 of the Royal Decree of 21 January 2009 on the instruction of pharmacists. In the case of public officials, the traceability of euthanizing products is ensured by the obligation of the pharmacist to keep for five years the commercial documents justifying such purchases and for ten years the prescriptions on the basis of which he issued them. The physician should not legally report the excess lethal product after euthanasia, even if the pharmacist must collect and dispose of outdated or unused medicines used by patients. That is why we do not have statistics on the return of lethal products.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic105x.u17	Minister, thank you for your answer. As I understand it, the doctor doesn't have to report the surplus?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic105x.u18	No.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic105x.u19	I thought that was part of his obligations. Thank you for your explanation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic105x.u20	Mr Miller, do you agree that Mrs Jiroflée and Mrs Lanjri are asking their questions together and that we then go to yours, whether or not Mrs Detiège joins us?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic105x.u21	Madam Secretary, quite recently, hallucinatory figures have been published in the media in connection with partner violence. Let me give you those numbers. In 2013, there would be no less than 162 deaths in relation to partner violence. In that year there were 39 746 reports of partner violence in absolute figures. That would mean that gross modo every two days someone dies as a result of partner violence. Nine out of ten victims are women. Women still do not indicate such forms of violence at all: in 2010 it was estimated that only 13.9% of the victims complain. The Institute for the Equality of Women and Men has been working for years, together with many women's organisations, to report partner violence. The Institute is also committed to helping the perpetrators and calls for the training of professionals, including the judiciary and police, who have taken significant steps in the right direction in recent years. It is also asked that the general practitioners react in a good way. General practitioners are often the first point of contact, but sometimes they do not appear to be alert to indications of partner violence. The Institute would like to provide a number of tools to help general practitioners detect and combat partner violence more easily. Another problem is, for example, that general practitioners often do not know when to violate their professional secrecy in order to refer their patients to the treatment. Complaints of anxiety, insomnia and depression often point to domestic problems, but once again the alertness of the general practitioners is often lacking to deal with them. Madam Minister, are you taking measures on the training, training or continuing training of general practitioners, learning to respond more adequately to indications of partner violence?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic105x.u22	Madam Minister, as our colleague has already pointed out, these are indeed very high numbers. We know that this is the tip of the iceberg, that many women do not dare to complain or find their way. These problems need to be recognised and resolved, as 40 000 people, especially women, are already reporting and many deadly victims are being counted. It is striking that the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men also mentioned the fact that doctors, especially general practitioners, do not always know that they are not bound by professional secrecy to take the step to the prosecutor or to refer the victims to the aid. Firstly, what measures have been taken in this area? What guidelines have been issued on how to tackle partner violence for doctors, whether they are hospital doctors or general practitioners? Are there any directives at all, or are you only counting on what the sector itself does? Secondly, what measures do you intend to take to improve the approach to partner violence? Thirdly and finally, partner violence is also a competence of Secretary of State Elke Sleurs. Have you two had any discussions? What measures will you take together? Is there a new plan of action?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic105x.u23	Mrs Jiroflée, Mrs Lanjri, the general practitioner is, of course, an inevitable confidant, who can provide advice and help to victims of partner violence. I know that the committee is very gender sensitive, but it is not just about violence against women, there is also partner violence against men. When one speaks of equal opportunities, they are involved. For several years, under the supervision of the FPS Public Health, Food Chain Safety and Environment, regular actions are being undertaken to inform, sensitise and train doctors and hospital staff. Among other things, emergency care personnel will be made aware of this. For example, about ten years ago, a guide was drawn up for the general practitioners on domestic violence, involving partner violence, child abuse and elder abuse, with decision-making trees and practical sheets. In recent years, the two scientific associations for general practitioners in our country, the Société Scientifique de Médecine Générale and Domus Medica, have also drawn up recommendations for good practice. The practical guidelines on partner violence, child abuse and abuse of the elderly were finalized and training was also organised in the context of continuing training of the LOCs or local quality groups and of the Dodéca groups. In addition to these training courses, awareness campaigns have been organised in hospitals since 2013, through posters in the waiting rooms to encourage victims of partner violence to confide in their treating physician. The same initiative was also launched through general practitioners and posters and leaflets were also delivered to the general practitioners. I would like to emphasise that general practitioners' training, including in the field of partner violence, has been the competence of the Länder since 1 July 2014. Moreover, the measure in this area is already included in the draft of the future multiannual National Action Plan 2015-2019 to combat partner violence and intra-family violence. This is important because the interdepartmental working group includes representatives from the various bodies involved, the Interior, Justice, Equal Opportunities and also the Länder. The activities of the working group are coordinated by the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men. Preparations for the 2015-2019 National Action Plan have started. The national action plan for adoption will then be submitted to the Inter-Ministerial Conference on Integration in Society. Once approved, of course, everyone must implement and implement their share of the measures. It is indeed a work in different areas of competence, but preparations have already begun.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic105x.u24	Madam President, I would like to thank the Minister for her excellent overview. We have been working on partner violence for years. However, every year, when looking at the figures, we have to find that partner violence remains a problem and that a task should be taken up by the doctors. I call on the Minister, in addition to the Institute for Equality, to continue to follow closely the implementation of the 2015-2019 Action Plan so that all measures, firstly, are sound and efficient and, secondly, are implemented by the Minister himself.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic105x.u25	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. I look forward to the preparation of the new National Action Plan, of which Secretary of State Sleurs is the leader. Of course, that concerns many ministers, including your department. In this respect, I would ask you to strengthen the initiatives taken in the past on your competence in health care, in order to increase the willingness to report. An entire group doesn't even take the step to the aid, the doctor or the police. That is a first point, which certainly needs to be addressed. Of course, we must also continue to inform doctors and aid workers about what they should do and how they can contribute to this.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic105x.u26	Madam President, Minister, I would like to return to this dossier, which has often been discussed in this committee in the past. As a result of the recognition of psychologists, orthopedagogics and psychotherapists, we also included the clinical sexuologists in our exercise. In the end, they were killed in the final proposal. This was mainly due to two reasons, namely the fact that the courses in French-speaking Belgium and Flanders were very different and the fact that access to the master's degree in clinical sexuology often concerns non-health calls, which led to KB No. 78 contained little room for that recognition. However, that does not solve the problem. But then eight hundred graduate clinical sexuologists at KU Leuven are very active today on the field of work. There too, we see that the demand for recognition continues to exist, especially from the assessment of the protection of patients. It is about specific, scientifically based treatment, and we want to ensure that the patient is given the best care and does not fall into the hands of people who have not received the right training. Madam Secretary, I suspect you're aware of the problem. Can you take an initiative? That doesn't have to happen within the Royal Decree No. 78, although you clearly have the intention of reviewing this within that KB. It may also happen in the context of the special professional titles, as happened for the psychotherapists. In order to protect the often vulnerable patient, I think it is necessary to obtain recognition in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic105x.u27	Madam President, I am not going to be very long since the subject of my question is the one that our colleague has just developed. I, too, regretted that at the end of the previous legislature, while various provisions had been adopted for the recognition of psychotherapists, it was not possible to associate the status of sexologists with them. At the time, I did not understand the arguments that this association of statutes was impossible. I believe that there is a real need today, first of all for the reasons that have been mentioned by our colleague, namely that for those who have received training, the absence of a status is harmful. Conversely, patients are not protected from being cared for by people who have not received ad hoc training. I should like to add a point to what has been said. It seems to me that the evolution of our society makes it really urgent to give a status to these people who have undergone the training of sexologist. Indeed, there is a decline in contraception among young people. There is also an increase in the use of abortion as a contraceptive method. There is also a sexual distress among young people in the face of the cultural diversity of our society – we are going to say so – and in the face of the omnipresence of pornographic images on the Internet. Madam Minister, there is a very important issue before us, and I am counting on you to find a solution.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic105x.u28	Madam President, Minister, I have already referred to the recognition of the clinical sexologists as a result of a question concerning the implementation of the law on psychotherapy. At that time, you were able to report that you thought the extension to sexologists was premature. At the same time, you thought it was an unpleasant prospect that anyone could call themselves a sexologist, including those who did not receive the training. In practical terms, those who were not properly trained are still able to treat people without any hesitation today. I now call for a system for the recognition of clinical sexologists and this by analogy with the psychotherapy scheme. The most useful thing is to expand this scheme and add sexologists. In consultation with Parliament and this committee, this can happen very quickly. I'll come to my questions. Will you shortly develop a legal regime for the clinical sexuologists? Indeed, most of the patients are extremely vulnerable. I therefore believe that they are entitled to good guidance from persons with the necessary expertise.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic105x.u29	Madam President, Mrs Muylle, Mr Miller, Mrs Detiège, questions have indeed already been raised in this committee, particularly at the meeting on 13 January. Also then was asked for a possible recognition, quickly and well, of the sexologists. I did not say that this was premature, but I did say that I would not make a preliminaries for the major revision of CSR No. 78, by quickly settling something for the sexologists, who at the time were excluded from the parliamentary agreement in the last tenure. I replied at the time that, in my view, according to priorities, an extension to sexologists is currently premature. Mrs Detiège's remark that anyone can place a ‘sexologist' plate on her façade will be taken into account. I will take this with me and I will also have further research on the extent to which it could lead to dangerous practices. The correct answer to this question was given at the committee meeting on 13 January, and I still support it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic105x.u30	Madam Secretary, you are right to say that it has been lost in the final pens of the proposal. The main reason was, and this is still a concern, that those concerned could not be recognised through KB No. 78, but not through the hatch psychotherapy. Why? Because today everyone can start the master's programme at KU Leuven, regardless of whether he or she has followed law, family science, psychology or what else. People with non-medical pre-school education can also start that master's programme today. It also caused us concern that someone should be recognised in the exercise of a health profession without that person having followed a basic training course for a health profession. We have therefore ensured that this did not occur in both documents. I'm gonna stand behind that. Of course, eight hundred sexologists are already active on the premises these days. It is clearly necessary, and I suspect that the need will only increase in the coming period. The patients are vulnerable, and we must avoid abuse. As far as psychologists are concerned, for many years we had to have a certain degree in order to be able to carry the title. It might be a good idea not to refer to those involved as health workers in order to address the problem in the short term. I continue to share the concerns of my fellow Members on the ground that something must certainly be done to prevent vulnerable patients from falling into the hands of charlatans. Recently, however, I have been getting echoes again that this happens sometimes. It is not always meant to be evil, but people often start an initiative from such groups. The question is always whether they have received sufficient pre-training to do such business.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic105x.u31	I thank the Minister for her response. I will return to the answer she gave in committee on 13 January. But I maintain that there is an urgency given the state of this problem in our contemporary multicultural society.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic105x.u32	Madam Minister, the fact that I repeat the question shows that I think they are really urgent. I've had conversations with a number of sexologists and they say that it's very often about people with small or large sexual problems, but also about people who were sexually abused, which has a severe impact on them. The fear of the sexologists is that they are approached or treated in a wrong way. It is therefore my job, Madam Minister, to call on you in this House to do this quickly and to rectify a number of issues.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic105x.u33	I note the urgency of this dossier. I just want to say that everything I am asked to do, both in the numerous letters, e-mails and conversations, is experienced as a matter of urgency.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic105x.u34	I also followed this file. One of the arguments put forward was that clinical psychologists, as well as psychotherapists, could specialize in sexology or focus on sex therapy. In doing so, they could claim the title of a clinical psychologist specializing in sexology or a psychotherapist specializing in sexology. This issue was put on the table during the discussion of the law on orthopedagogical clinicians and psychotherapists. I invite you to read the report of the debates that took place at the time. You may find additional information that may provide elements of a response.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic105x.u35	Madam Minister, we took a number of initiatives during the previous legislature, including the adoption in 2011 of a resolution on the recognition of phybromyalgia syndrome and a better, comprehensive treatment of the phybromyalgia patient. That resolution was the result of a round table with a number of fellow Members of Parliament. I think even with you, Madam Secretary. The resolution asked the government to take a number of important measures for patients. Two and a half percent of the Belgian population is affected by phybromyalgia syndrome. Unfortunately, more and more young people are developing the disease. It is worrying and problematic that the disease is still not recognised. A clear cause for the disease has not yet been identified, but the symptoms are clear: increased muscle tension, a shortage of nutrients and enzymes, a reduction of 30% in the amount of growth hormones, psychological factors, infections, oxygen deficiency, sleep deprivation, nutritional allergies, etc. The condition often leads to occupational loss and social isolation, despite the fact that many of these patients are keen to work. Madam Minister, I would like to repeat a number of questions that we put together with a number of Members in the resolution. Where is the study on the treatment of chronic pain? Has it been published yet? What are the recommendations? Were the recommendations implemented? What is the status of the chronically ill population? Any progress there? Has the system been improved yet? Is that still in use? Have doctors and/or specialists evolved in their dealings with patients suffering from phybromyalgia? Can we find good practices here that we can also apply to other chronic diseases? What's the progress on the phybromyalgia campaign with the experts? Is there more attention being paid to this? Is the knowledge also given to the health insurance examiners and the RIZIV, who have to screen patients about their ability to work or not?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic105x.u36	Mrs Detiège, I have indeed taken note with great interest of the open letter from the universities about CVS or, otherwise called, myalgic encephalitis. This open letter particularly advocates the need for scientific research on CVS or myalgic encephalitis, and that is, of course, the competence of the Secretary of State for Science Policy, the various Ministers of Education and the universities themselves. CVS and fibromyalgia, according to several meta-studies, are still not sufficiently known and therefore there are different views about the cause, nature and treatment of the diseases. So there is still a great deal of need for scientific research that explains the aetiology of these diseases and which is the basis for new and better curative treatment. It is not only a research domain for the Belgian universities, but also researchers abroad are working on it. Nevertheless, in our country for many years there have been more favourable methods of reimbursement for kinesi therapy, because of the beneficial effect of gradual practice therapy in some of the CVS patients. Cognitive behavioral therapy has also been reimbursed for some CVS patients for years through the former CVS reference centres. The new diagnostic centres for CVS would normally be able to re-refund cognitive behavioral therapy. In addition, the plan "Priority to the chronically ill" achieved goals that could also benefit patients with CVS and fibromyalgia. I am thinking in particular of the agreements for the multidisciplinary centres for the fight against chronic pain, which were concluded on 1 June 2013. The report "Tenload of the chronic pain patient, past, present and future" proposes the guidelines for the evaluation and treatment of chronic pain based on a biopsychosocial model. The report is a reference work for healthcare professionals confronted with pain patients. It also clarifies the bottlenecks relating to training and training. I also invite the Communities concerned to fill those gaps. At present there are no formal guidelines for counsellors for the care of CVS and fibromyalgia patients, but they can also call on the manual to evaluate the incapacity for work in that condition. A working group was also set up at the Technical Medical Council and the RIZIV Benefits Service to establish guidelines for, inter alia, CVS and fibromyalgia. A draft text will be presented at the next plenary session of the Technical Medical Council in early March 2015. If the Technical Medical Council approves this guidance, it will then be proposed to the High Commission of the Medical Board on Invalidity and then to the two Management Committees of the Benefits Service and the Medical Service of the RIZIV. The RIZIV will then draw up a communication plan. Finally, I would like to take a number of measures that benefit all patients with severe chronic illness. In November 2013, the plan "Care for the chronically ill" was drawn up at the National Conference. At the moment, the various administrations are turning into concrete measures the recommendations that should better frame the chronic patient. The same applies to CVS and fibromyalgia patients.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic105x.u37	Madam Secretary, thank you for the answer. I feel like you're taking the chronic patients seriously, a group that's been in the cold for years. This was also the main message in Parliament to listen to those patients. The recommendations on chronic fatigue will be discussed in a few weeks' time. I suspect that we can have more interaction and coordinate.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic105x.u38	I get a lot of questions about CVS, fibromyalgia, chronic fatigue, lymphoma and chronic lymphoma. I'd like to break that up. Those are all different diseases. The evidence-based research is very diverse. In the interests of patients, we must avoid throwing everything on one table, because it does not benefit them. Most patients take a very long time to know their diagnosis. That's when the battle begins. It is better to admit to the patient that one does not know the nature of the condition yet, but that one is searching. Don't say it might be Lyme disease, maybe CVS or maybe fibromyalgia. After all, the patient is completely lost to the north and is really sent from the cabinet to the wall.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic105x.u39	Madam Minister, I can reassure you, because the split-up took place a few years ago. When we started discussing fibromyalgia, CVS and later Lyme disease in 2011, we deliberately opted for the split-up. CVS patients may suffer from fibromyalgia, but it is a different condition. That is why we have always drawn up separate resolutions. Today I'm doing the split-up again. We will continue to have debates on chronic diseases. It is characteristic, however, that patients are having a very difficult time because they are not taken seriously. In that sense, fibromyalgia, CVS and Lyme disease are unfortunately similar. Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic105x.u40	By examining our order of business with my two co-chairmen, Mrs Van Camp and Mrs Muylle, it appears that we could already begin work on resolutions on chronic fatigue next week. I propose that those who have tabled texts should be ready for 10 March. This is one of the priority proposals selected.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic105x.u41	Madam President, in order to ease the work of the committee, I would like to turn my question No 2634 into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic105x.u42	D'accord, j'en prends acte.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic105x.u43	Minister, in 2010, we created the Medical Accidents Fund to make up for the slowness of the courts and allow injured patients to be compensated more quickly. About 20 people work there. To date, 2,513 files have been sent. However, according to my information, only a dozen cases have been closed to date. The result is even more slow than in the courts – that is, little – when our intentions in 2010 were to deal with all cases in less than a year. Of course, we are aware of other similar cases. We can therefore speak of a major failure, which is worrying not only the professionals in the sector, but also the patients who should be the first beneficiaries of this initiative, which I consider commendable. My questions are quite simple, minister. Can you confirm to me the figures I have just quoted? How can we explain that so few files have been processed? Secondly, it would appear that the Fund's framework is expected to increase from twenty to forty people in the near future. However, according to the Chamber of Physicians, the Fund would find it difficult to recruit doctors and lawyers because of financial constraints. What do you say?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic105x.u44	Madam President, Madam Minister, I have many similar comments, so I will not repeat everything. The Medical Accidents Fund was indeed launched in 2012. The aim, as my colleague has also said, is to speed up compensation for victims of medical errors, because they used to have to wait a very long time for a ruling and therefore also for their money. I found the same figures as my colleague in an article. What worries me even more is that the latest annual report on the site appears to be only about the first seven months of its operation, while the report should cover a full year. No figures were released for 2013 and 2014. At the same time, I read that the influx of new applications is enormous. It would even be about a hundred files a month. There is nothing to be found on any files that have been processed. Madam Minister, I would therefore like to ask you whether you can tell us how many files have already been submitted and at what stage in the process of dealing with these files. How many files have been processed? How much is the average amount paid out? How many of these payments could be recovered from the insurer of the doctor concerned? What budget does the fund have? With this question, I share my colleague's concerns as to whether there are sufficient resources. What about the obligation to publish annual reports? Unless you have a very good answer, do you agree that the fund should be thoroughly evaluated and if necessary adjusted? The introduction of this fund was a good principle and a very good idea, but I wonder if everything is working as well at the moment.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic105x.u45	Madam President, we have all seen the history of the Medical Accidents Fund here. My parliamentary predecessor, Yolande Avontroodt, has knocked on that nail several times. When the fund was set up and became operational in 2012, we thought that the most difficult delivery was over, but now it appears that there is still a follow-up to it. The Medical Accidents Fund received 2 583 files between its operational start in September 2012 and February 2015. Of these, 365 files, or 14%, have been dealt with. The RIZIV will therefore continue to bring the operation of the fund to its cruising speed in the course of 2015 in order to overcome the backlog. It is important for the patient, who is gradually finding his way to the Medical Accidents Fund, that this is happening and it is also a good thing, because patients can now tell their story in very difficult, delicate situations if something has gone wrong during medical procedures. With regard to the decisions taken, in 136 of the 365 files currently closed, it was decided either that a care provider is responsible for the medical accident or that a medical accident occurred, but that no responsible person can be identified. Of the 136 files, 10 are subject to a procedure for the award of damages. The 229 other files were closed, usually after they were declared inadmissible. Nine of the 2 583 files were ordinary requests for information. It has already been said that the Medical Accidents Fund was established by law of 1 April 2010. From that moment on, the Medical Accidents Fund will be competent. However, it took until September 2012 for the Fund to start operating and the necessary implementing decisions to be published. It has taken much longer to complete the staffing framework. It has proved particularly difficult to set up the network of experts, given the wide range of expertise needed within the fund. Doctors who are highly specialised, such as neurosurgeons or gynecourologists, hesitated to act as experts. That is now solved by having the specialists work together with doctors who are used to carrying out expertises. These bottlenecks have delayed the operation of the fund, but the RIZIV is making every effort to further supplement the staffing framework so that in the future about a hundred dossiers could be dealt with every month. The fund now has 30 staff and is currently recruiting 15 new employees. The 2013 Annual Report is finally expected to be issued in March 2015. The 2014 report will be delivered on time, namely by the end of June 2015. These reports will provide a full update on the average processing time of the files. As I have said, INAMI is making every effort, despite a difficult budgetary framework with the result in terms of staff, to enable the Fund to meet the challenges of social insurance and public service missions through quality processing and efficiency, in a more timely manner that is more compatible with the high expectations of potential applicants and claimants. In view of budgetary needs, recruitment is within the overall financial envelope allocated to the Fund. This envelope indeed contains both the means for the mission and for the operation of the fund. The evolution of the mission, i.e. the volume of external expertise, the level of compensation granted, the speed of handling dossiers and so on, is also the subject of continuous monitoring to analyse budgetary needs. It's been said. People have started to lag behind. It was a very difficult delivery and the fund has gone through a lot of serious childhood diseases. I think that the biggest ones are now behind us, that we can begin to catch up and reduce the waiting time for decisions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic105x.u46	Madam President, Minister, my question was "The failure of the Medical Accidents Fund". Thank you for your clarification. Thanks to the chronology you established, we understood that it was not obvious to make it operational after it was endorsed by the Council of Ministers in 2010. I have heard that the first financial contributions and the first measures of operability were only possible in 2012. I can understand that. I am very pleased with the completeness of your answer. I am well placed to testify that it is complex for a non-initiated to appoint highly specialized experts for each type of medical accident that may occur. So it took a certain amount of time. I hear today that things have been put in place and that resources have been found, which is why I thank you. A cruising rate has been found since this year not only with regard to the absorption of late files but also the prevention in the future of too long delays in the processing of cases. Madam Minister, following your clarifications, I will obviously be very careful, but I am also reassured that you are paying certain attention to the follow-up that will be given to them.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic105x.u47	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. Do I understand correctly that no compensation has been calculated at this time? So those ten files are running. If I have heard correctly, there are 136 cases in which a ruling was made, in the sense that it is about a medical error, whether or not it is with a fault of the care provider, and 229 cases that were declared inadmissible. I continue to like the idea of the Medical Accidents Fund. I can understand that it is difficult to put together the staffing framework and that there is a delay in that regard. I do wonder whether raising the cruising speed to 100 dossiers per month is realistic when we see how many files have been dealt with now, but it is certainly a good target.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic105x.u48	Mr Jadin, your question No. 2634 about rare diseases is a combined demand. Therefore, it cannot be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic105x.u49	Madam President, Minister, you announced a dynamic medical cadastre for June 2015, which will provide us with information that will help us better understand the reality of physician benefits and their territorial coverage. Knowing that the Public Health FPS is working on the development of this new cadastral tool and that the way it will work will be crucial to assess the number of doctors needed and meet the needs, it would be interesting to now identify the meaningful data we want to have. I would therefore like to ask you about the nature of the investigations that will be pursued and that will certainly have been discussed between the SPF and you. What data, by specialisation, will the Planning Commission be able to have at least? Some information is obvious, others may be less obvious. Is there information on age, sex, number of consultations? It is important to have information on the number of hours spent in consultation work but also on the time spent in other medical activities, such as ONE, Kind in Gezin, school disease, family planning, health promotion, etc. It is also interesting to know the places of activity, to know where the doctor takes part time when he works both in hospital and in private practice. It is useful for this cadastre to resume if it is two half-time or a three-quarter time and a quarter time. In the same way, does it take place in isolation or in a grouping? In a medical home or in an isolated office? It would also be interesting to have projections between one and three years of the changes physicians are considering as to the nature of their activity or their working time. I take the example of a doctor who wishes to stop his activity because he arrives at retirement age and wishes to take it in one or two years. It may wish to reduce its working time, so that it can also anticipate changes in the short-term medical supply in the region in which it operates. This would allow us to cross and correlate these different data to organize the provision of care. Minister, what questions will be asked? What data can be collected to establish a real dynamic cadastre for physicians?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic105x.u50	Mrs Gerkens, the cadastre for active doctors or enriched cadastre, will indeed be available in mid-2015. It consists of an anonymous linkage of several databases: firstly, that of the federal database of health care professionals; secondly, that of the INAMI services and, thirdly, that of the data warehouse "labour market and social protection" managed by the Social Security Hub Bank. The formation of such a coupling was initiated more than a year ago. A detailed request describing all data and sources was submitted to the Social Security and Health Sector Committee of the Commission for the Protection of Privacy in October 2013. This sectoral committee has had to decide on the variables requested and has sometimes made adjustments to ensure anonymity of the data. Thus, in practice, the ages of professionals have been grouped into five-year categories and the nationalities have also been grouped into major groups of origin, i.e. north, south, east and west of Europe, in order not to be able to identify professionals in analytical tables with too small numbers. Of course, the variables obtained are also dependent on the data recorded in the different original databases. We were only able to obtain the variables that were well recorded in the main database of these different organizations. The latest raw data were received by the SPF in July 2014. An important data preparation (control and coupling) and analysis work has been carried out since then. At present, my administration is drafting the linkage reports in close cooperation with the Working Group on Physicians in the Planning Commission. Each of the thirty-seven recognized medical specialties will be the subject of a detailed report, including the age pyramid, gender, nationality, country of origin, province of residence, different sectors of activity and their full-time equivalents. Analyses are carried out by gender, age, region of residence, nationality, country of graduation, sector of activity (in or out of INAMI, in or out of hospital). In the case of places of activity, they are not geographically established. Only the "place of residence" variable allows for the geographical distribution of health professionals. However, by way of distribution, we have their INAMI activity between the hospital and the outpatient sector. In addition to this, we can also determine the wage activity of professionals and the related sector. In collaboration with INAMI and the Intermutualist Agency, my services are currently developing a methodology to improve the examination of health professional practices in order to integrate this data into a permanent coupling system to be defined. The objective is to be able to observe the workforce in the health sector and to base planning on these accurate data. We will also be able to determine the cumulation of activities and the share of full-time equivalents to be charged in these different sectors. You then ask me about the possibility of projecting changes in working time over one to three years, depending on the type of benefits. These are data of a completely different nature. To know them, investigations would have to be conducted at a cost that would be disproportionate to the use we could make of them. The cadastre of active doctors consists of a detailed photograph of their activity in Belgium, describing the current situation and its historical evolution for the period 2004-2012. In order to consider the workforce in the future, we have developed a specific methodology. The cadastre of active physicians serves as a basis for future scenarios using a mathematical model used by the Planning Commission. It allows for projections of the evolution of the labour force. The scenarios envisaged take into account demographic changes, the ageing of the active population, but also the population in general and the resulting change in the consumption of care. These assumptions are developed within the Working Group on Physicians of the Planning Commission and constitute the work to be carried out by this group and the administration after obtaining the cadastre. For your information, I would point out that the same work is under way for dentists, with a delay of a few months. For this specialization, it may be a little more complicated. In total, there are more than thirty-seven medical specialties. The work must be done for each specialization, so it is immense.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic105x.u51	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. It is true that the work is immense. Moreover, it is quite surprising that no attempt was made to organize the data earlier. Indeed, the idea of a cadastre was issued some ten years ago, it seems to me. I remember asking a written question – I think it was the first of its kind – between 2004 and 2006. My question was to get a medical record by commune. At the time, I had to wait six months to get an answer because it required a common search per commune. Having said that, I am pleased that things are moving forward. On the other hand, I note that today we are talking about more complete and cross-referenced data. Nevertheless, there are some things that cause me to be astonished. Indeed, a cadastre is the photograph of the existing situation. But if it is to be a dynamic tool, it must also make it possible to anticipate and organize. You have stated that mathematical models that will integrate different data will be used and that future needs will be taken into account. However, practices are changing. It is known that a large number of doctors are over 55 or even 60 years old. It is therefore important to know whether they intend to stop at age 65 or whether they intend to continue their activity until they can no longer do so. It is also important to know whether they intend to reduce their professional activity and finally to pass on to younger doctors. This data seems essential to me if planning is to be in line with needs and if a real organization is to be carried out. In addition, it seems important to me to know the places of activity. Knowing the place of residence is not enough. The place of work is all the more important in the context of the reorganization of hospitals, for example, the use of specialist doctors who do not live in the area of the hospital where they are called upon to carry out their activities. What interests me is not to know where doctors live, but where they practice, where they provide care. I think it's a data that should also be available, but I know that some doctors are opposed to the link between their place of activity and their home. It seems to me that these elements are missing. I would like a clarification. You say that INAMI activities and activities outside INAMI will be taken into account; that is good. From there, these elements will be translated into full-time equivalents. Will this full-time equivalent be calculated as INAMI did recently, based on the average number of physician visits after X years? Will a physician who has given half as many consultations be considered a part-time practitioner? It is again a mathematical model that does not come from the reality of the field. Or will the definition of full-time equivalent take into account the individual practice of physicians based on the data listed and collected in a file? Your answer contains positive elements; but in my view it lacks the elements I have just mentioned. My motion of recommendation is simply to request that this data be included in the cadastre. You meet some of them; others are missing and you have given your reasons. I really wish they were there. I will table this motion for a recommendation. Perhaps you would like to add something about full-time equivalents?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic105x.u52	I can only tell you that such a methodology has never been developed; I think it will be a very different way of calculating. It's a very big job. At the moment, when we are almost finalizing things, I am not going to complicate the work by saying that another variable has to be added. It's been a really big exercise. Many opinions have been sought. One of the members of the Planning Committee has told me that she has never been able to process and combine so much information. I think it is important now, also in view of the urgency I have been referred to for a few weeks, to find a long-term solution for the transfer of French-speaking students. Some of them had a hundred liters of blood of some origin on the façade of the Financialists. I can understand that, although it may still be a bit dignified. One has the right to protest, but to haggle a hundred gallons of blood on a sidewalk, I find it. All in all, this work must continue and be carried out, and then we can engage further in the discussions. The needs and the ageing of both the medical corps and the population will be taken into account. We know that these are variables that we will face in the future. I think that we have never got this far and that we must now give confidence to the methodology, to the work of the Planning Committee and to all those involved.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic105x.u53	In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. A motion for recommendation was tabled by Ms Anne Dedry and Ms Muriel Gerkens and reads as follows: The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Mrs Muriel Gerkens and the response of the Minister of Social Affairs and Public Health, asks the government that the list of doctors expected by June 2015 should contain at least the following data, by specialization,: that these data can be correlated and that they are dynamically and permanently up-to-date: - age, - sex, - number of consultations, - time (in number of hours) spent on consultation work as well as other medical activities such as the Office for Birth and Childhood (ONE) or Kind en Gezin, school medicine, family planning, health promotion or other activities, - place(s) of activity and the corresponding part time: one or more offices, hospital, combination hospital-cabinet, medical home, etc., - projection within 1 to 3 years of changing working time and/or the nature of benefits and/or change of place of activity in order to anticipate such changes, such as retirement or a slowdown in activity, The aim is to improve knowledge of the provision of outpatient and hospital care by geographical area. A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Anne Dedry and Mrs Muriel Gerkens and reads as follows: The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mrs Muriel Gerkens and the reply of the Minister for Social Affairs and Health, asks the government that the physician's register, which would be ready by June 2015, would contain at least the following information per specialisation, that those data can also be correlated with each other and can be updated on a continuous basis: - age, - sex, - number of consultations, - time spent on consultations (in hours) and other medical activities such as activities for ONE or Child and Family, school medicine, family planning, health promotion, etc., - place of activity and the corresponding parttime activities: one or more practices, hospital, combination hospital and practice, health centre, etc., - look forward to three years of change in working hours and/or the nature of the benefits and/or the place of activity in order to anticipate such changes - such as retirement or a reduction in activities - with the aim of increasing knowledge about the provision of care in hospitals and the provision of outpatient services by geographical area." A simple motion was tabled by Nathalie Muylle and Yoleen Van Camp and MM. Dirk Janssens et Richard Miller. A simple motion was tabled by the ladies Nathalie Muylle and Yoleen Van Camp and by Mr Dirk Janssens and Richard Miller. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic105x.u54	Madam President, Madam Minister, the unit pricing for reimbursed medicines has been programmed to start on 1 April 2015. Close to its implementation, however, we hear the alarms of distressed pharmacists who contact us. Although the pharmacists absolutely agree with the underlying idea, we are confronted with the fact that the design on the table today is somewhat contrary to the reality of the workplace. All risk derivatives are currently with the pharmacist. Financially, therefore, there is a great deal of concern. Representatives of the RIZIV, the insurance institutions, the APB and OPHACO reviewed the drafts. The designs do not seem to really succeed in transforming unit pricing into a compensation system that is both practical and financially feasible for every pharmacist currently supplying a residential care centre. The main problems are as follows. There is, first of all, the withdrawal of medicines. What is being done with the surplus? The pharmacist has a problem with that. There is also a problem with the possible reuse of existing stocks at home. Short stays are difficult because people can fall outside the system because of the fast rotation. There are also questions about the fee mass which, according to the calculations, may not be sufficient. In that respect, we are getting disturbing reports. Apparently, such agreements are also produced in a strange way. There seems to be some consultation between a number of parties that are reaching an agreement. The democratic parliamentary process is actually being bypassed. For the Minister, however, such an agreement often suffices to push through what has been agreed. That is why I have the next, obvious question for me. You have already been informed of this problem through a number of channels. What action will you take, given the power that lies with you? Do you choose to push through the current plans and/or will you listen to the complaints of the people on the field?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic105x.u55	Thank you, Mr Vercammen, for your question. You know that my predecessor had already made a decision on this. It has passed between two ministers. The practical arrangements for unit pricing of compensatable proprietary medicinal products with an oral solid form delivered to RVT and ROB residents by the official pharmacist were therefore worked out by consensus in the Committee on the Agreements on Pharmacy and Insurance Institutions, which is the consultative committee to which you referred, as well as in technical working groups with representatives of professional associations of pharmacists, insurance institutions and tariff-fixing services.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic105x.u56	The dossier was also discussed in the meetings of a Joint Working Group of the Committee on Veterinary Insurance and the Committee on Health and Consumer Protection and the Committee on Health and Consumer Protection. At my request, next week, RIZIV, in cooperation with the representatives of the Advisory Committee on Pharmacy Insurance Institutions and my staff, will organise an information activity for all the people from whom we have received questions, i.e. for pharmacists as well as for those from the residential care centres. We will bring them all around the table and explain the implications of the measure and then how we will proceed with it. The objective of the measure is to avoid the reimbursement of medicinal products whose intake has stopped. Short stays are excluded from the scope of the measure. The starting value of the average fee per week and per patient was calculated by the RIZIV on the basis of the most recent data available, with a correction for the evolution of the data based on a trend analysis and the application of two additional correction factors, in order to approximate the correct value as best as possible. There is a commitment to re-evaluate the fee for the fee by September 2015 at the latest. That undertaking was entered into and included in the amendment clause to the agreement between pharmacists and insurance institutions. The re-evaluation will be carried out in accordance with the same methodology used for the initial determination of the amount at the above fee, valid from 1 April, but on the basis of more recent data, which we will receive through Farmanet and the Inter-Mutualist Agency. A shorter-term review is not actually possible. We must have at least the figures for April, May, June, July and August. The figures for those five months may be representative. There'll be fluctuations in that. Then we can treat prices according to the same methodology, but on the basis of more accurate figures. I agree with you. That's why we called all these people around the table. The invitations for next week are already on their way. If you still know people who want to participate, they can also receive an invitation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic105x.u57	Madam Secretary, thank you for your detailed explanation. We will follow this dossier closely. In any case, I would like to thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic105x.u58	Madam President, Madam Minister, the Royal Order of January 10, 1991, provides for the intervention of INAMI in the rehabilitation of language development disorders in the absence of an intelligence disorder (total intellectual quotient of 86 or more, measured by an individual test). This limitation of arbitrary intellectual quotient deprives many children of the necessary logopedic treatment. These include children with Down syndrome or autism. According to professionals and actors in the field, the logopedia is quite suitable and indispensable for children with cognitive problems in order to remedy or correct these problems. These children need a logopedic support to acquire the basics of language and communication. Minister, is the removal of the intellectual quotient limit for access to logopedic services currently under consideration by the convention commission? If so, can you take stock of the issue? If not, do you intend to ask for this issue to be included in the consultation bodies?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic105x.u59	Mrs Thoron, in answer to your question, I would like to inform you that the need to prove a total intellectual quotient of at least 86 applies only to certain so-called monodisciplinary logopedia services, which are exempt under Article 36 of the health-care system. This is the logopedic care given to patients by a logopede outside an institution where care is provided in a so-called multidisciplinary manner, in consultation with providers of several medical or paramedical disciplines, including logopedia. In addition, in monodisciplinary logopedia, the intellectual quotient limitation applies only to certain disorders, namely disorders of the development of oral language and dysphasia. For other disorders covered by this nomenclature, there is no requirement for proof of a certain intellectual quotient. If this criterion of access is set for these disorders, it is precisely because patients who do not fulfil the condition fall within the competence of the multidisciplinary institutions mentioned above, in particular the outpatient rehabilitation centre, formerly known as the oto-rhino-laryngological centre. Patients are treated by different providers because their disorder has aspects of different disciplines and it is appropriate to treat them together. In conclusion, the abolition of the limitation on the basis of the patient's intellectual quotient for the disorders to which this condition applies is not in fact on the agenda of the committee of convention between the logopedes and the insurers competent for legislation on the nomenclature of monodisciplinary logopedia.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic105x.u60	Madam Minister, thank you for this very interesting clarification.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic105x.u61	Madam Secretary, an interesting study of the Independent Hospital Funds of 3 February 2015 shows that general practitioners rarely refer to a fellow specialist. Fourteen percent refer to geriaters and only 1% to cardiologists. It was a search of 2 million members. In fact, it turns out that 19% of general practitioners never refer to a specialist. In addition, a referred patient should pay less brake fees to the specialist than 5 euros, or 2 euros for persons with increased allowances. The study shows that this is not the case and that only one in 100 patients consulted received the increased reimbursement. That so-called echelon ring might be a little too soft. I use those words because you used them in Parliament in 2008 and they are still on your website. This very soft echelon ring has apparently not become established in patients, nor in referring doctors. Aborting or adjusting, so that's what my questions are based on. First of all, are all general practitioners aware of the so-called soft echelon ring? Secondly, how are general practitioners informed about this? Thirdly, do you see possibilities to make the system user-friendly and enforceable? Fourthly, is the generalisation or obligation of a global medical file a solution? Fifth, can't it be administratively simpler? There is a proposal in the study of the Independent Hospital Funds to mention only the number of the prescriber. Do you follow that proposal? Finally, as a Home Secretary, I would like you to take further steps in the echelon ring. As a Member of Parliament, you saw it as a soft echelon ring, and as a minister-in-house doctor you may take more steps in that regard. I believe that this will benefit a sustainable reform of health care. Or do you see it differently?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic105x.u62	Madam Minister, first of all, do we maintain the measure and can you do so in an administratively simpler way? Secondly, even more importantly, I think that 19% of the general practitioners never refer to the second-line assistance, which amounts to one in five general practitioners. This means that patients should take initiatives themselves, because their doctor does not refer. What's your reaction? What's your plan of action?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic105x.u63	Madam Minister, I would like to bid on what my colleagues have said. I'm going to link up with the first issue that we're dealing with, that is, the information that patients have about their rights. In this case, this is a measure that must promote access to care and reduce costs. Either some general practitioners consider it too complicated, or they do not know that they can resort to this way of referring to a specialist colleague and allowing a lower cost. Perhaps it is high time to take steps on both simplification and information, in order to have a system to which the doctor and the patient adheres with complete intelligence. If we succeed in making it effective, could its application not also be considered at the level of dentists? The dentist may, from time to time, have a person to return to a specialist.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic105x.u64	The measure to reduce the patient's personal share of the consultation with a specialist if he or she has been referred to by the GP indeed dates back to 2007 and has never had the effect expected in the context of the soft echelon ring. My question dates from that period and no, I do not remove any old questions from my website; I am not ashamed of the explanations I made at that time. It is true that the measure is only in very few cases known to the general practitioners, or is in any case carried out by the general practitioners, by the specialists and by the patients. We will therefore ask the RIZIV to bring the measure back to the attention of the doctors in one way or another, with the information that has come out of this useful study. The measure initially served to facilitate access to the second line financially and also to encourage the opening of a general medical file to the general practitioner, since the patient had to have a comprehensive medical file before he or she could be referred. By the end of the legislature, the government agreement provides for the obligation of an electronic patient file, which will integrate the global medical file. In addition, the patient is also encouraged to choose a reference physician. In this way, it will in any case already be much easier to verify whether the patient has been referred by the general practitioner or by other care providers, such as dentists, as suggested by the study of Free Mutualities. The study certainly contains a number of elements on administrative simplification and scope which I will discuss jointly with my departments. For the time being, I do not think that it is necessary to take further steps in staggering if there is good communication between healthcare providers via a patient file, preferably electronic. We will therefore include this point of concern in all measures, including the implementation of the electronic medical file. This is already covered in the Medicomut and Dentomut agreements. We call for a regular general practitioner, a regular pharmacist and a regular dentist. In this way, an electronically accessible patient file is possible for each patient. I believe that we should show patients the usefulness of this. The patient's dentist knows what medication he or she is taking and knows his or her background records. The whole history then becomes visible, which can have consequences for certain decisions. We take that pain point without wanting to return am Symptom through this or any one-off measure. In the future, the return and return must be made daily.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic105x.u65	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. I wish you every success with your intentions, given the difference in the landscape and the evolution of the global medical record between the north and the south of the country. In Flanders, many more global medical records have already been closed on a voluntary basis. If you move towards an obligation, you will have to step up in the south of the country.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic105x.u66	I will go to all directions, for there are also differences between the west and the east. It's gonna be necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic105x.u67	Madam Secretary, I think your decision to look at everything in an integrated way is correct. Maybe we will get the right figures on the non-directives. I can't assume that one in five general practitioners never refer. In some cases, non-attestated referrals are likely to be referred to avoid red tape, with the result that these referrals are not detected. When everything goes through the electronic patient file, it has many advantages. We are in favour of introducing this as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic105x.u68	I fully agree with you when you talk about the need to generalize the use of the computerised global medical record. We, as Francophones, must support this data collection. However, this highlights the fact that patients will consult specialists directly without going through their general practitioner, sometimes when this does not prove necessary. This is an interesting element that needs to be taken into account. This brings me back to the need to improve information on devices. Still, I have your intention of simplifying the procedure through the use of the medical file, even if I do not think it will be enough.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic105x.u69	Madam President, apparently I've been a busy bee for the past few weeks. Madam Secretary, I attended the FLIECE Congress on palliative care in January of this year. There it was confirmed through research results what we already know, namely that 95% of people like to be cared for at home and preferably want to die at home, but that 55% still die in a hospital. So there is still a lot of work on palliative home care. By starting that care for everyone in a timely manner, not only for cancer patients, by systematically discussing early care planning and by raising awareness and training among caregivers, including carers, we would be taking a lot of steps forward. Of course, our legislation must follow the new scientific insights and, in my opinion, our definition of palliative care, as well as the participants in the FLIECE Congress, must be renewed and revised. Three Flemish universities, the VUB, the KU Leuven and the Ghent University, have advocated an extension of palliative care. Ecolo-Green has tabled a resolution on this matter and a legislative proposal, which has already been considered. Your colleague, Secretary of State, Mr Sleurs, has already said that she is wondering whether the law on palliative care is in need of revision. Madam Secretary, I have three questions. Firstly, will you take into account the recommendations of the FLIECE Congress? To what extent do you agree with the recommendations? What action will you take? Secondly, do you support the bill that we have tabled? Do you think that we will be able to tackle this important issue together across party boundaries in a constructive way? Thirdly, the sector is asking for a very wide-ranging State-General with all the care providers and professionals involved in the broadest sense of the word, including educational institutions, patient associations, carers and so on, to draw up the lines of long-term policy on palliative care. Are you fond of that idea? Will you answer that question?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic105x.u70	Madam President, Mrs Dedry, first of all I will say what has already happened and then it is up to you to know whether a State-General should also be organised. It concerns the recommendations made at the FLIECE Congress on the topic of "How to improve palliative care in Flanders?" But I assume you agree with me that it can be improved anywhere. Of course, I will take these recommendations into account, especially because they are in line with what is currently being prepared around the plan for integrated care for the chronically ill. In particular, Recommendation No. 3 of the FLIECE report, which states that palliative care should be accessible to all patients regardless of their diagnosed disease, indicates this importance. In addition, life-end choices are an essential part of the prior planning of care. Consequently, palliative care is part of this integrated care. The vision paper and the proposal of this plan are currently in preparation and it is intended to reach agreement on this at the Inter-Ministerial Conference. This year the results of the study on the Palliative Care Indicator Tool, which was also referred to during the congress, are also expected. The Federal Evaluation Cell Palliative Care and the FPS Public Health fund and direct this research. The aim of the research is to identify the need for care in relation to the extent to which someone is palliative. With regard to the discussion of the proposal for a resolution by Ecolo-Green on a better definition of the concept of "palliative care' and the improvement of the mentoring of persons suffering from a severe, chronic and incurable disease and thereby having a lower life expectancy, I think it is appropriate to await the final research results of the PICT project. The aim is to allocate the funds already allocated today in a more targeted way. My proposal is to improve and strengthen the role of the Palliative Care Evaluation Cell. In the first instance, this cell will define its specific assignments. In any case, the Communities and the Regions should also be involved, because the palliative care associations were transferred to the Länder. The integrated care policy for chronically ill can then take into account the biennial reporting and recommendations of this Evaluation Cell within the range of available resources. You know that we are now working on all transfers in the light of the sixth state reform. That is a very great work, which comes at the top of the government's declaration. It is in it and so we carry it out. This should also be taken into account in the further evaluation and consultation process. This must always be done in consultation with the Regions and the Communities. That is also the case here.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic105x.u71	Madam Secretary, I look forward to the results of the research on the PICT scale. On this basis, we will have additional figures to calculate the costs. However, we can determine the definition, in accordance with the World Health Organisation, independently of the cost. However, I believe that our opinions are not so far apart, quite the contrary.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic105x.u72	Madam Minister, the Law of 21 December 2013 on strengthening the transparency, independence and credibility of decisions and opinions in the areas of health, health insurance, food chain safety and the environment will enter into force on 1 February 2016. For this purpose, implementing acts are provided for. It came to my attention that these implementing decisions are simmering a bit. People don't get ahead. However, it is a very important law, because it also provides for the introduction of a general declaration of interest for experts. This is very important for all the experts from the authorities responsible for public health, for example. In the context of increasing transparency and independence, I would like to ask you what is the state of play in the transposition of the law. Are there any obstacles to implementing decisions or are the decisions coming? Have any initiatives been taken by you, your colleagues or the administration? When can we expect these implementing decisions?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic105x.u73	Mermaid Dedry, the law amending the Law of 21 December 2013 to strengthen the transparency, independence and credibility of decisions and advice in the areas of health, health insurance, food chain safety and the environment potentially aims at a wide variety of bodies. Several agencies, committees, councils and advisory bodies are involved in the fields of public health, health insurance, food chain safety and the environment. Some of them still deal with federal matters, others belong to the Communities. It is therefore necessary to allocate more time to the implementation of the law in order to put in place an optimal system and to avoid any conflict of interest within those structures. A study is needed on the practical implementation of the various measures required and their feasibility, including in order to avoid, as mentioned above, conflicts of interest between the structures in the implementation of that law. We will therefore have to propose postponing the entry into force of the above-mentioned law. In the meantime, further work and consultations are being carried out with the relevant authorities. We will follow this issue closely, but at the moment the work is not sufficiently advanced to be able to implement that law.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic105x.u74	Should I conclude from this that you think 2016 is not feasible?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic105x.u75	We still have to get to work on that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic105x.u76	Madam President, Minister, according to the Royal Order of January 12, 2006, certain nursing activities may be carried out by nursing assistants, including those related to food aid and oral rehydration. However, there is an exception in cases of probe feeding and swallowing disorders. Food aid for people with swallowing disorders cannot therefore be provided by home helpers. Some people in need of food assistance and with this disorder are not always fed by probes or simply do not want to be. Madam Minister, at a time when alternatives to hospitalization are increasingly being sought, what solutions can be offered to those people with swallowing disorders who wish to preserve some form of autonomy? It seems that the food aid for these people is therefore solely the responsibility of the nurses. Is there a refund of these benefits from INAMI at present or is this only for the treatment of enterral nutrition? In the context of the reform of the nomenclature and with the adaptation of the specific training courses, do you envisage measures to improve collaborations between the aid and care professions, between home helpers and home nurses? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic105x.u77	Mr Frédéric, thank you for the brevity of your question. The problem you raise is not new. Several ministers of health have looked at it. It was the subject of many discussions during the previous legislature as part of the Interdepartmental Public Health Conference between federal authorities and federated entities. These discussions have resulted in memoranda of understanding that better regulate the relations and collaboration between health professionals, of whom I have the competence today, and aid professionals, who are in the competence of the Regions. The more specific protocol for the sector, signed by all the federated entities on 24 February 2014, provides in the specific case that you raise that the aid professional who finds that his beneficiary suffers from signs of swallowing disorders informs the attending doctor or nurse at home of the latter. This health care professional assesses whether the recipient needs the services of a health care professional to be able to eat. Otherwise, the aid professional is free to continue to carry out the tasks assigned to him by the various regional decrees in this field, such as helping the beneficiary to feed himself. If a health care professional assesses that the recipient needs care from a health care professional, then he or she offers it to the patient and takes the necessary steps to ensure that it can be done. Therefore, if a non-health professional performs the care, the activity consists of an illegal activity. You can therefore observe that your reading of the legislation is too restrictive. The activities reserved for health professionals by Royal Decree 78, such as feeding a patient with swallowing disorders is reserved for nurses or treating a swallowing disorder is reserved for a logopede, first requiring that the person be a patient, i.e. that a health professional and identified as such has assessed that he or she needed these services, otherwise food aid is part of the activities of daily life for which support professions may intervene. This is the first path to be followed by these people you talk about in order to maintain their autonomy at home. In response to your question on the nursing nomenclature, if a nurse is to intervene in this type of patient, who is heavily dependent, there is no specific nomenclature to give him or her food, but a package for all the nursing care required during the day. To fully answer your question on this subject, there is also another act in the nomenclature among nurses that allows reimbursement of nursing care related to the feeding by enteral probe if the patient benefits from it. As you read in my policy note, I am prepared to review certain principles, sometimes too rigid, defined by Royal Decree 78. I don't forget the relationships between healthcare professionals and aid professionals. This is why work on this subject will continue within the framework of the Interdepartmental Conference on Public Health. My administration is following this closely and is making every effort to eliminate the delay. They shall meet at regular intervals with the administrations of the Communities to discuss several points, including this one. A permanent group has been set up for this purpose, as also provided for in the health care protocol which regulates the transitional period.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic105x.u78	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic105x.u79	Mrs Lahaye-Battheu is absent.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic105x.u80	I worked in the E.R. myself. So I can testify that aggression against ambulances and enlargement against care workers is a problem. Last month, the Union for Flemish Ambulanciers issued a cry for help in the media. There are many examples. For example, an ambulanceman was strangled by a drug addict. Another ambulanceman appears to be incompetent after an attack by an aggressive with a samurai sword. Madam Secretary, do you know of the problem? Do you have any plans to take action in this regard? The sector also faces financial problems. My question is therefore whether you will discuss this with your fellow Members, for example, in order to reform training? Will there be a statute for paramedics? Are you planning measures or would you like to discuss them in order to better protect paramedics, for example when they call on the police? Are there any conversations on the subject? Or when can the paramedics expect it? I have heard that they are asking for this, but they have not yet been invited.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic105x.u81	The problem of aggression against aid workers has been raised many times in the committee in the past. We have already taken important measures in cooperation with the administration. For example, in the provincial training institutes, training is indeed organized on how to deal with aggression in aid. They must provide emergency workers with a number of tools to deal with potentially dangerous situations and to identify unsafe situations. When confronted with aggression, emergency workers can use a kind of emergency button on their portable transmitters. For example, a communication line is immediately opened with the auxiliary plant, so that it can monitor what is happening on the ground and send out urgent assistance. In addition, the federal health inspectors regularly consult with the public prosecutors and police forces in order to take preventive measures in consultation and strengthen the prosecution policy on aggression against aid workers. A direct result of these contacts was to increase the penalty for aggression against aid workers. The federal health inspectors will fully assist the aid worker who was the victim of aggression in the context of the procedures to be carried out.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic105x.u82	Madam Minister, I have not really received a reply on consultation with the sector. I hope that you will take to heart the question of those concerned to be heard and to develop measures relating to their status, their training, their protection and their financial situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic105x.u83	That is another problem. We must conduct this discussion in cooperation with the Interior, because only the medical aspect of urgent medical aid is within my competence. Contacts are already taking place. If you ask that question to my colleague, Minister Jambon, he will answer you that our two cabinets and our two administrations are already working on it. That really is a very great work, so the work has begun. If there is cooperation in the government, that can also be mentioned!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic105x.u84	Madam Secretary, that sounds good. I'll pass it on in a minute. Thanks.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic105x.u85	Madam President, Madam Minister, the fact that people are living alone or living alone is a sociological and demographic fact that has progressed in Flanders in recent years. In the major city center cities, including Ghent, Antwerp and also my own city of Leuven, almost half of all households are single-person families. This is also apparent from the recent study report of the Flemish Government's study department. Single people and single residents have a lot of problems, but they are particularly vulnerable to financial consequences and are not always self-reliant. Especially when they become ill, single people cannot rely on family care and/or family care. In the light of this problem of single people who become ill and find it difficult to contact family or friends, the care home in Ostend was established in 2009. That's a shelter for cancer patients to recuperate during their oncological treatment. Its purpose is to give those single people a warm place where they can relax without having to deal with practical concerns, such as going to the shop, because they are usually unable to do so themselves during that difficult period. In the meantime, a nursing home was also established in Ghent, but that stops it. The referral to these care homes is always made by a doctor and an oncologist. A refund is currently provided by the RIZIV for the stay. The initiative of the care homes, which is based entirely on volunteers, is a very good example of how extra attention can be paid to the growing group of people living alone. Unfortunately, the concept of the care home is almost unknown in medical circles and patients are rarely referred to by doctors or specialists, while there is a greater demand for it. The proof of this is that the care home in Ghent has a pressing capacity problem. Better dissemination of information to doctors, specialists and mutualities could speed up other initiatives such as this in Flanders. Madam Secretary, are you familiar with the concept of the care home? Do you believe that the concept should be encouraged by medical stakeholders? If so, what initiatives do you have in mind? Do you have a timetable for this?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic105x.u86	Madam President, Mrs Hufkens, any initiative to support patients and their environment deserves our attention, especially when these initiatives are being launched around vulnerable people. The care homes may not be very well known. This is an ordinary house, located in a quiet residential area, where up to four guests can be accommodated during the toughest days of their oncological treatment. These private initiatives should not be confused with the respite homes for children and adolescents. These care homes were developed under the programme "Priority to chronically ill people" and the RIZIV provides €2.1 million to ensure the care and supervision of patients with various long-term diseases, as well as general operational costs. The construction costs are borne by the Regions. The care homes focus only on cancer patients and offer limited care. As regards the conditions of the care homes in Ostend and Ghent, the volunteers do not take care and/or nurse actions. There are also no nurses present in the care home. If the candidate guest needs help with washing, dressing, etc., or if specialised care is required, a home nurse should be requested to do so. In short, these care homes are actually outside the programmes and the funding by the RIZIV. As a result of the sixth state reform, it should be noted that if there is a need for a specific recognition and promotion of these aid structures, particularly care homes, they must be developed at the level of the Länder.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic105x.u87	Madam Minister, I have also had this question put at Flemish level. We are also working on this. However, as Minister of Health, you can send an important signal. I am therefore pleased that you think it is important that additional initiatives are being taken and that they are being looked at for this vulnerable group of single people, which is only increasing. In that sense, I welcome your answer. I hope that the Flemish Region will pay more attention to this and that this initiative can be followed up in other cities.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic105x.u88	Madam Minister, in the context of the International Day against female genital mutilation of 6 February, the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men supports the Groupe pour l'abolition des mutilations sexuales feminines and the non-profit organisation INTACT. Together they have proposed a first toolkit to prevent female genital mutilation for professionals. According to World Health Organisation estimates, more than 130 million women and girls worldwide are victims of genital mutilation and three million more would be added every year. According to the latest prevalence study, the number of women and girls in Belgium from countries where female circumcision is still carried out is estimated at some 48 000. Of those 48 000, 13 112 are likely to be circumcised and 4 084 would be at risk of being circumcised. A total of 17 000 women and girls are involved. Genital mutilation has long-term physical and mental consequences and may in some cases lead to death. They are a form of inhuman and degrading treatment which deprives the most fundamental rights of women and girls. Genital mutilation is denounced by a large number of international conventions. In Belgium, genital mutilation has been specifically prohibited by law since 2001. The prevention kit of both organisations was developed for health professionals, as well as for social workers or legal professions, who are often powerless and insufficiently trained to deal with delicate cases of female circumcision. In addition to the toolkit, these organisations have also made five major recommendations for the ministers and professionals concerned. In our committee we have to look at the first recommendation, namely the importance for the various sectors of the prevention kit for female genital mutilation. This requires a strong commitment from the sectors concerned and from the relevant ministers, we believe. Basic training for professionals should also be provided. Madam Minister, have you taken note of GAMS Belgium's recommendations and the INTACT association? Are you prepared to take those recommendations into account? What specific measures are you taking in this regard?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic105x.u89	Mrs Jiroflée, I have taken note of the five main recommendations. My predecessor, Mrs Onkelinx, has been working well with GAMS Belgium for several years, just as I have when it comes to the care and support of young women in our shelters. The aim was to sensitise doctors and midwifes of the services concerned and to provide training so that we can have a network of reference persons. I therefore intend to continue this project. We have also worked well with GAMS for the special framework of those maimed women, as well as for the detection of the problem they had fled to our country, within our administration of the Commissioner-General. Mr Sleurs, as Secretary of State for Equal Opportunities, is now preparing an update of the Action Plan to combat partner violence and other forms of intra-family violence. This is therefore an action plan for 2015-2019. Special attention will also be paid to female genital mutilation. Given that she's a gynecologist of formation, I don't think it's gonna be much of a surprise for her. In recent years progress has been made in many areas through qualitative and quantitative studies, the development of a guide to multidisciplinary intervention aimed at professionals, the dissemination of information tools, the provision of training by associations and numerous awareness-raising measures for the specific target area. The policy pursued is strengthened, with particular attention to the strengthening of the effectiveness of the associations working in the field, the support mechanisms for women who have been victims of genital mutilation, the conditions of reception and training of the parties involved in the problem. As far as I am concerned, I am prepared to continue the project for the sensitisation and training of the hospital staff concerned. The use of the prevention kit in training seems to me to be a good initiative. The target audience consists of hospital staff, midwives, doctors and nurses of the material and emergency services. Sensitization in schools is unfortunately not my responsibility. There too I must refer to the role of the Communities.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic105x.u90	I am particularly pleased that you want to continue the cooperation and that you want to use the toolkit. It is a particularly useful instrument, so that is very good. I am also pleased that genital mutilation will be mentioned separately in the action plan. I will continue to monitor the matter at Mrs Sleurs' level. Thank you for your answer, because we must all continue to pay attention to this.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic105x.u91	Question No 2039 by Mr Daniel Senesael is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic105x.u92	Madam President, Madam Minister, I have already asked you about the shortening of maternity leave after childbirth. As a reminder, on the basis of a 2014 KCE report, you decided to increase the maternity stay, which is today on average from 4.5 days to 4 days. In this context, a first stage planned for 2015 was to be followed by a second stage in 2016. In examining the budget, I drew your attention to the fact that the KCE report provided for the use of the budget to develop an important policy on post-natal care for mothers and newborns who should leave maternity more quickly, but who should be supported by a team of midwives at home. We know how important the first days after birth are for both newborns and mothers. At the time you told me that you would study the matter, which is why I would like to know what is happening today. In addition, you mentioned a savings of 11.7 million euros for 2015. However, it appears from the information I have provided that this savings would in fact amount to EUR 18 million. Such a larger than expected economy is, of course, on the backs of hospitals. Let's be clear! Minister, what will be the impact of this economy on hospitals? Are you actually going to impose a saving of EUR 18 million on the latter? As I said before, the financial situation of a very large number of them is very difficult because of a lack of structural financing.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic105x.u93	Mrs Fonck, in response to your first question, I would like to point out that the objective of the savings measure is to encourage hospitals to reduce by half a day in 2015 the average length of stay charged for all APR-DRG deliveries (540 caesarean deliveries and 560 vaginal deliveries) of severity 1 and 2, i.e., in principle non-complicational stays. The aim is to empower hospitals with a longer stay than the national average. I draw your attention to the fact that this measure does not affect patients. Indeed, if the latter stay longer in hospital, it is the latter's funding that decreases but, for patients, it does not change anything in terms of reimbursement of care. With regard to the difference in amounts you mention, it must be understood that the savings of 11.7 million correspond to the economy in the health care budget, but the budget of the hospital's financial resources is financed at 77.23 per cent from the health care budget and 22.77% from the alternative financing budget to cover, in particular, patients who are not affiliated with an insurer body. In addition, there is a usual billing delay of two months. As a result, the measure of 11.7 million amounts to a total budget of 100 per cent equivalent to 18.7 million. With regard to your question about the reinvestment in the 2015 budget of part of the amount of savings achieved by the reduction of half a day of the average length of stay for severe births 1 and 2, I confirm that this measure must be carried out without a portion being reassigned for postnatal care by midwives at home. However, a budget margin is available to launch a call for projects to look for an alternative approach to childbirth with a shorter average length of stay. The objective of the project could be a better prenatal education of the mother and her entourage through the organization of a care path with necessary agreements set out in a care plan between all the providers and the future mother in order to guarantee optimal perinatal care at home to the mother, the newborn and her family. I have asked my FPS Public Health and INAMI administrations to prepare a call for projects.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic105x.u94	Madam President, Minister, there is good and much less good. My information was correct: it is not 11.7 million, but more than 18 million euros that you will save on the backs of hospitals, although you had committed yourself to 11 million euros of savings related to the shortening of the length of stay in maternity after delivery. I can only continue, Madam Minister, whenever necessary, to sound alarms at these repeatedly imposed savings in many areas, including successive measures on hospitals. Let me remind you of the Maha study: 60% of hospitals are in red. On the other hand, I thank you for responding positively to this proposal I made, namely, to launch a call for projects to support midwifery teams that will help supervise the young mother and baby at home after leaving maternity.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic105x.u95	You say it's about savings on the hospital hood. It is about bringing the billing time into line with the time that the ladies have actually stayed in the hospital. I have explained this more than once when discussing the budget and my policy paper. The billing time of the hospitals at this kind of childbirth was always half a day too much. I'll just put them together. It is only right that one invoices how many days one has taken care of mother and child. One has to say things the way they are. I don't think you should categorize this as savings on the hospital hood. I think it's only right. When I go to the hotel, I pay only for the nights I sleep there, not for the nights that follow.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic105x.u96	Minister, will hospitals receive just over €18 million less? The answer is yes. You said it would be $11.7 million. That's not the case. That's a lot more, more than 18 million. This is the second problem that I point out elsewhere today. Did you lack transparency at the time? Did you make a mistake in your calculations? I don't know, but the fact is that it was announced 11.7 million in 2015 and that the reality is quite different since it is more than 18 million euros.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic105x.u97	Madam Minister, at the end of January, the municipal councils of Hasselt, Diepenbeek and Zonhoven discussed whether gas fines could be handed out to persons using nitrous oxide or nitrous oxide. The decision forced itself into those municipalities, after nitrous gas gradually became more and more established at parties and student events. Laugh gas is also used in the food and automotive industry. Especially because of the low cost and easy availability, nitrous oxide becomes a popular drug among young people. Its intake can cause hallucinations, nausea and reckless behaviour. Long-term use and ingestion may even cause brain damage. Are you aware of the problem? What measures do you propose to take to prevent the spread and use of nitrous oxide? Are you thinking of stronger regulation and distribution standards?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic105x.u98	Mrs Hufkens, as regards the competence of the Federal Agency for Medicinal Products and Health Products, the marketing authorisations for a medicinal product for human use based on nitrous oxide were issued as anesthetic. So we are talking about nitrous oxide as a prescription medicine. This can only be made available to the patient through a pharmacy. In addition, the Committee on Medicinal Products for Human Use believes that the proper use of an anaesthetic nitrous oxide can only be guaranteed in a hospital. It therefore advises that delivery is limited to hospitals. Therefore, the reimbursement in Belgium has always been limited to the hospital environment for safety reasons. Therefore, abuse of nitrous oxide in the form of a medicinal product seems to me to be very limited. Lach gas, however, is not available on the market as a medicinal product, but in the form of, among other things, whipped cream patterns. They do not necessarily fall within my jurisdiction. Nevertheless, I will have my administration examine whether we can find more information on this matter. However, I would like to emphasise the importance of the responsibility that everyone bears to use only products for which they are intended.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic105x.u99	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. Of course, products must be used for the purpose for which they are intended. Abuse leads to nitrous oxide, which can really be dangerous, when a new drug comes onto the market. In that respect, I believe that you have the authority to do so. I am therefore pleased that you will commission more research; I am curious about the results.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic105x.u100	Question No. 2114 by Ms. Van Camp is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic105x.u101	Mr. Senesael is absent.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic105x.u102	Madam Minister, the general call number 1733 for waiting services is being introduced at different stages. We have discussed this before. Full operationalisation was rightly postponed with some caution until June 2016. After all, there are still a number of unanswered questions that deserve a solution first. That's what you said at the time. I therefore think it is a good choice not to choose the hasty introduction of the song, but to opt to take more time to prepare the project. After all, we share a number of concerns from the sector. For us it is very important that the triage leads the patient to the right care at the right time and by the right care provider. That is what it is intended to do. That's in the best interests of the patient and the caregiver. The result should not, for example, be that triage weakens first-line care and increases patients' visits to emergency services, quite the contrary. There is a chance, for example, when the patient's question of care is considered to be a non-urgent and he or she is not immediately referred to a general practitioner, while the patient can, of course, go to the emergency service without any problem at that time. How will the operation of the watch and emergency services be optimally coordinated? How will the triage help patients to reach the right care provider and not turn to the emergency service unnecessarily? I do not believe that either of us wants that effect.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic105x.u103	Mrs Van Peel, in the context of the meeting of the National Committee on Medicine and Health Funds of 22 December 2014, it was indeed agreed that GPs should draw up an appointment plan with emergency services from their region by the end of 2015, in order to improve the streamlining of the use of guard services, sentries and emergency services. By 31 March 2015, the National Commission on Medicine-Sickness Funds will draw up a model of such integrated agreement plan which will include guidance on a referral policy. Such an agreement plan will also apply from 2016 as an explicit financing condition for all partners concerned from the first, second and third lines. To this end, the necessary regulatory adjustments will be prepared with the partners concerned. The introduction of the number 1733 means that, in addition to the use of a national call number, a medical regulation and a triage of calls are carried out on the basis of scientifically validated protocols which accompany the dispatchers in the handling of calls to the GPs. These calls via number 1733 are answered by the dispatchers in the 100 and 112 centres who first have to undergo six months of training. Another measure introduced together with the call number is the recording of calls, which will also allow for an evaluation and improvement of the system. The aim of this measure is to increase the quality of the responses to the calls during the watchkeeping period, so that the patient is given the most appropriate care as soon as possible. At present, there is no guarantee that the calls will be accepted by persons trained to handle such calls, as the calls are often accepted by the guard's secretary or sometimes by the GP's husband or wife, at best. I know from the past, when my husband had to answer my calls, that this is not always easy. A research proposal has been made proposing, firstly, to study the epidemiology of the calls through number 1733. Secondly, a validation and permanent adjustment of the protocols used by the dispatchers is proposed, including an evaluation of the operation of the dispatchers. Thirdly, it is also proposed to consider the consequences of a telephone triage via 1733 on the workload of the aid workers concerned in the region.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic105x.u104	Madam President, Minister, I understand that I am actually a little early on with the question, as the model is still being developed by the end of this month. However, you will agree with me that it is certainly a very important point of attention. I do not know whether you can be more specific. What are the possibilities of avoiding the problems outlined? What can one do to prevent a patient who is told at the triage that it is not so urgent and that he has to wait until Monday, from going to the emergency service? A link should almost be established to share this information with the emergency services in the area. That's gonna be a pain. I do not know to what extent you yourself have a specific proposal or are really waiting until the end of this month? Then I will gladly ask the question again.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic105x.u105	Those are agreements that need to be made in that plan. If it is said to go to the emergency services, should the emergency services be notified? And then, of course, there's the reverse scenario, if one says not to go to the emergency service. What are we gonna do with that? There is no way to avoid patients driving to the E.R. after all. We will have to evaluate these matters on a permanent basis.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic105x.u106	I am only afraid that the evaluation will show this and that perhaps we should consider in advance how we can avoid this, by making a certain link in one way or another. I will ask the question again next month.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic105x.u107	It's also about knowing how far we have control over what people do.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic105x.u108	Question No 2212 by Mrs Temmerman is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic105x.u109	Madam Secretary, every week 45 teenagers are brought into the emergency wards of hospitals in an advanced state of alcoholic intoxication. Almost 2 400 young people aged between 12 and 17 end up in hospital every year because of excessive alcohol intake according to the figures of the Inter-Mutualist Agency. These alarming figures also show an increasing curve. So it's not a marginal problem at all. Some experts claim that the sensitisation actions of recent years have not brought any relief and that there is a need for a large-scale alcohol plan, even prohibiting the sale of alcohol to under-18 year olds. The same experts point out that such a ban already exists in 20 out of 28 European Member States. They say that in a number of countries this actually pays off. Whether it is or not, I'll leave it in the middle. I was surprised at your reaction in the press, Madam Secretary. At first, it seemed as if you were completely opposed to the figures; you would not do anything against them. Then you improved that claim. Of course, newspapers do go crazy once in a while. In any case, I would like to make this quite clear. Firstly, will you or will you not address the problem in the short term? What exactly are you up to? Secondly, you believe that monitoring on the basis of current legislation should be properly addressed. I fully agree with that. At the same time, however, we hear that the FPS Health Control Service would be understaffed. I would therefore like to know how you will resolve that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic105x.u110	Madam Minister, I am partly in favour of Mrs Jiroflée. Indeed, alcohol problems are detected at an ever younger age. The alcohol consumption is also feminized. That's what we need to take with us. You stated in Latest News that you still had to refine your position. That is why I have the following question. What is your position on the matter? I share Mrs Jiroflée's request for stricter monitoring of compliance with the alcohol advertising law. Do you share our opinion on this? Will you make more funds available to the inspection service? Can we expect an alcohol plan? I do not share Mrs Jiroflée's view when she joins the experts in saying that the introduction of an age limit would be the solution.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic105x.u111	I said I'd leave that in the middle.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic105x.u112	Good communication and appropriate guidance are very necessary. However, we must now concentrate primarily on the problem of producers. That is also the reason for my questions in that sense.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic105x.u113	As I have already pointed out in committee, the excessive use of alcohol is an important problem in our society. However, different measures are needed to address their use. In this area, too, there must be consultation between different competent authorities. It is therefore a problem that will be dealt with during a consultation in the General Policy on Drugs at the Inter-Ministerial Conference on Health. After all, the debate must be brought to the fore. Substantial efforts will also be needed to change knowledge about the dangers of alcohol, the attitudes of young people and the behaviour of alcohol consumption. Unfortunately, such a change is not only the task of ministers or governments. She demands a daily commitment from each of us. I have therefore called for help, instead of laughing and walking away, when someone sees a young person or an adult who is in a drunken state. Unfortunately, that is not always done, with all the consequences. I have also taken note of the figures of the Inter-Mutualist Agency. The authors themselves say that this exercise is about estimates. If we compare the figures with the minimum hospital data for alcohol intoxications transmitted from the emergency services for both classical recordings and daily recordings, we see great differences. In any case, whether it is ten, a hundred or a thousand cases, the problem remains the same and needs to be addressed. However, I would like to make some reservations about the figures given by the Agency, which it itself says are estimates. The agreement on alcohol advertising, which provides for an auto-regulatory system and has been agreed by the alcohol producers, distributors, catering federations, the advertising sector and consumer organisations, has been revised in 2013 and provides, among other things, that advertising should never address younger people. The Jury for Ethics Practice is responsible for monitoring compliance with the covenant. In this respect, therefore, as a minister, I do not have any direct instruments to respond to possible inappropriate alcohol advertising. That's what the Jury for Ethics Practice is doing. The Public Health Office closely follows the implementation of the covenant. An evaluation report on the application of the Covenant since 2013 will also be made. As far as the control of alcohol sales is concerned, the Tobacco and Alcohol Control Service of the Public Health Office has 24 full-time inspectors at its disposal today. They carry out about four thousand alcohol controls every year. I have now asked for that to be increased to 5,000 checks. In addition, the Tobacco and Alcohol Control Office wishes to focus this year on intensified controls during possible peak periods of infringements, i.e. after the end of exam periods, during so-called baptismal periods of students and around one hundred-day celebrations, i.e. at the predictable times for students. He also wants to focus on youth parties and festivals and carry out targeted checks in night shops near schools and exit neighborhoods or party rooms where young people often meet, such as youth homes. Finally, the FPS wants to make a strong commitment to raising awareness and working together with all stakeholders: organizers of parties and events, youth associations, local authorities, local opposition, etc. This cooperation and awareness-raising of the various partners is seen as an added value by both the administration and those partners. I would like to point out that people are supposed to be and are even obliged to help someone who is sick or in need because of excessive alcohol consumption, medication or something else. Call the 100, call the emergency services, call the parents or whoever they want, but see that someone takes care of that person and not just let him continue to suck, with all possible consequences.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic105x.u114	Madam Secretary, I am glad that you are clearly concerned about the problem. I have two comments to make. Firstly, we all know that alcohol advertising should not be directed at young people. However, the alcohol industry is increasingly targeting young people and offering products that can seduce them. It's not about advertising, it's about the product itself. Secondly, I did not receive an answer to my question as to whether or not the inspection service would be understaffed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic105x.u115	I have said that there are 24 full-time equivalents, which are now doing four thousand checks. We will ask for 5,000 checks. There will have to be an adjustment within these services.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic105x.u116	That's good.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic105x.u117	Madam Secretary, I have no reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic105x.u118	Madam President, Madam Minister, unlike the last few years, the number of smokers aged between 12 and 18 years is no longer decreasing. The Flemish League Against Cancer also complains about this and blames it on the fact that the tobacco industry would really target its advertising to that target group. In the case of checks carried out by the health services, it appears that one in six shops violates the rules of the tobacco law. These infringements usually take the form of the sale of cigarettes below the price and the display of too much tobacco advertising. Serious fines are imposed on infringements, and we naturally welcome that. However, the penalties, which are increasingly directed at tobacco manufacturers rather than at sales outlets, do not immediately impress those manufacturers. According to the control services, the most crazy loopholes are sought to advertise only at the limit of legal and permissible tobacco. Madam Secretary, that is why I have the following questions. Do you intend to step up checks on compliance with the tobacco law? Do you also intend to increase the fines in the event of infringements? Now only tobacco manufacturers are fined and not the outlets. Are you considering imposing fines on the sales outlets themselves, in order to put more pressure on them not to deal with the orders of tobacco manufacturers? Do you intend to impose a total ban on the display of cigarette packets in the shop, the so-called display ban, which would completely wipe this problem off the map?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic105x.u119	Madam President, Mrs Van Camp, the Tobacco and Alcohol Control Service of the Public Health Office carries out a thousand checks on tobacco advertising legislation every year. In 2014, 31 minutes were recorded for a thousand checks. The marketing strategy means that several possible infringements can be committed. For example, a wide range of types of packaging can be used. Cigarettes are sold in packs of 19 to 38 pieces and roll tobacco is offered in packs of 30 grams but also in buckets of 500 grams. Often the consumer is rewarded when buying the largest packaging with a price reduction of up to ten percent. Also, more and more advertising slogans or other elements are connected to the brand and are thus displayed. I also mention the advertising of tobacco in newspapers, which have evolved into comic bookshops, grocers and neighborhood shops as a result of diversification. In my opinion, the current fines are important enough, because they range from EUR 60 000 to EUR 600 000. I will therefore not take any initiative to increase those fines. I can mention that anyone involved in the distribution of tobacco advertising can be punished. Points of sale may also violate tobacco advertising legislation on their own initiative. Then only they will be banished. The Public Health Office is still working on the transposition of the Tobacco Directive, which focuses on consultation with the mandatory transposition measures and, on the other hand, any additional protection measures for public health. These consultations shall cover all additional possible measures. The final choices will always be tested against the contributions they can make to improving public health.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic105x.u120	Madam Secretary, that sounds good. We therefore hope for feedback after these measures have been agreed. When can we expect that?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic105x.u121	I didn't get any timing, but they're still working on it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic105x.u122	Madam President, Minister, I will talk about mental health care and, in particular, the accessibility of mental health care. The reason for my question is the figures from the Health Survey of the Scientific Institute of Public Health. This shows that Belgium is the leader in the swallowing of psychopharmaceuticals. Both sedatives and antidepressants go smoothly over the counter. With 75-plussers, the usage is unfortunately enormous. For example, 26% of men and 40% of women take medicines. Moreover, we also know that a third of Belgians who are long-term unemployed are unfortunately incompetent because of psychological problems. Many people then resort to medicines, while a good conversation with a psychologist often brings more solace. This is not only better for them, it also costs society much less. However, as long as psychotherapy does not become cheaper, the consumption of medicines will continue to increase. The taboo to seek mental help will stand. I have three questions for you. At what time do you want the reimbursement of the mental health care round? In March there will be a budget check. Do you then envisage a first step towards reimbursement for the most vulnerable group, in other words for the people covered by the increased allowance? When do you plan the reimbursement of psychic care for all groups?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic105x.u123	Perhaps it would be nice not to have a chat room out loud here. The point is, however, to listen to the questions and answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic105x.u124	Madam President, Mrs Detiège, this is a question that has been raised several times. I agree with the importance of mental health care in a non-pharmacological way. It is indeed my objective to improve the accessibility of mental care in the future. As far as new measures are concerned, it seems logical to me that a role should be given to those providers recognised in application of the law of 4 April 2014 regulating mental health professions. That law came to an end at the end of the previous legislature and you also know that it was then decided to allow it to enter into force on 1 September 2016. That was also incorporated into the law. It is not for nothing that such a long period has been laid down. After all, many of the provisions of this law still have to be laid down in CBRs and, moreover, substantive decisions and regulatory work still have to be made. Before any regulation on reimbursement can be drawn up, consideration should also be given to the place that is given to the new providers in the landscape of existing structures and caregivers and to the bottlenecks that already exist. In this context, I am thinking of the many applications to the mental health centres. To investigate this, the Federal Knowledge Centre is conducting a study on possible models of organisation and reimbursement for clinical psychology, psychotherapy and orthopedagogy in Belgium. In the light of this study, the Knowledge Centre will question the various stakeholders. Therefore, it seems premature to me to ask for funds for new measures at the time of budgetary control in March, as it is already certain that this law will not be implemented until mid-2016. I also believe that no distinction can be made in the need for reimbursement between persons with or without increased compensation. For this last group the legislative work has yet to be done. The question of whether one needs psychological support does not depend on the income, but simply on the state of mind. If you need mental health care, you must also have it, regardless of the statute.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic105x.u125	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. I see that you are following this theme closely. What you are saying is true: if there is a need for mental health care, it must apply to everyone. That is why restructuring is a good thing. When I look at Flanders, where Minister Vandeurzen has huge waiting lists, there is a need to work very hard and to make improvements. However, that is not your area, as I know it. Furthermore, I believe that the accessibility of care, by which I mean reimbursements, is a federal competence that should be high on the agenda. You say that new initiatives can be launched on 1 September 2016. I hope that this will happen effectively and that, if necessary, a reform will start when you have the data from the Knowledge Centre. That part, i.e. not only the reform or the structural part, but also the financial part, must be taken into account. The accessibility of care forms a whole. I understand, however, that you want to do so. I see you nodding. I will follow this matter closely and I am confident that you will appreciate the importance of the matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic105x.u126	Question No 2272 by Mrs Muylle is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic105x.u127	Madam President, Minister, it appears that over 12,000 NIPT tests were carried out in our country last year. Thanks to this blood test, a non-invasive risk assessment for down syndrome can be made early during pregnancy. However, the test is pricey and costs between 450 and 600 euros. I understand that the reimbursement is only applied in high-risk situations, which amounts to about five thousand reimbursed tests per year. The test also predicts Down in low risk pregnancy. The phenomenon that we see in this is that good families also pay for the test outside the high risk situations, whereas that is not evident for families that are not so broad. With the current combination tests, one fifth of the fetuses with Down are missed every year. As a result, we risk making Down a syndrome that occurs in the long term mainly or exclusively in children from lower classes. The NIPT test is also by far preferred for other invasive tests, which result in about 50 involuntary pregnancy breaks every year. It would be unfortunate if the cost resulted in the use of more risky tests in mothers of lower classes. The currently proposed amount for reimbursement is 460 euros. In the autumn, the Belgian company Multiplicom would put a test kit on the market at the price of 250 euros. The KCE proposed to switch entirely to the NIPT test, especially if the price would fall to 150 euros. That is why I have the following questions. Firstly, why is the combination test not carried out on all women? In De Standaard we read that only 100 000 of the 128 000 pregnant women receive the test. Secondly, are you considering making the NIPT test mandatory for pregnant women? Will this apply to all women on a voluntary basis or only to high-risk women? Will this happen at the current price or if the price drops? What is your consideration based on? Thirdly, are you considering repaying the NIPT test as a triage after a positive screening or as a primary screening? Fourthly, would you consider lowering the threshold for reference to the NIPT test in the event of a drop in prices to EUR 250? From what price are you considering replacing the combination test with the NIPT test? Finally, how are negotiations on a refund of the NIPT test in case of high risk pregnancy?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic105x.u128	Madam President, Minister, you are currently working with the RIZIV on a reimbursement of the NIPT test and you are choosing to do so for women at risk. I support you in this for two reasons. In this way we avoid some miscarriages due to an amniotic puncture, but we also do not do overshooting. Not for every woman, but for risk groups, which is absolutely in line with our vision. My colleague has already told the story about the cost, but in the meantime another test has come up, the NIFTY or non-invasive foetal trisomy test, which can be performed from the tenth week of pregnancy, without risk of miscarriage and with a correct detection in 99,5% of the cases. The NIFTY test is already cheaper, with 395 euros, safer and more accurate. That NIFTY, however, does a little more. He can also find other genetic abnormalities, at no extra cost, and a number of things, such as sex determination and abnormalities on the sex chromosome. Madam Minister, on the basis of this additional information, I would like to ask you the following questions. Do you think the NIFTY is better and more reliable than the NIPT test? Are you working on that? What is your position on reimbursement? In your opinion, is it desirable for pregnant couples to be able to identify the sex of the foetus, among other things, so early in pregnancy? We probably do not want to evolve into Chinese situations. I'd like your opinion on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic105x.u129	Madam President, Mrs Van Camp, Mrs Dedry, thank you for raising this delicate issue. I only have data relating to the reimbursement of benefits in kind. The NIPT test has not been reimbursed so far, so I have no knowledge of the number of NIPT tests carried out so far in pregnant women. It is not my intention to make this test mandatory, but to provide, where appropriate and fully in the spirit of the coalition agreement, for an accessible, affordable and high-quality test. I asked the Technical Medical Council of the RIZIV to make a proposal for reimbursement, taking into account the recommendations of the reports. Taking into account the various scenarios analysed in this context in the report of the Knowledge Centre and the current price of the test, we will not be able to offer them immediately as part of a generalised screening exercise. We'll be able to introduce it under certain conditions. I am thinking of high risk pregnancy or an abnormal test for Down syndrome. This test can then also be reimbursed in the second line in case of high risk pregnancy. That could avoid 50 miscarriages per year by invasive tests such as punctures. I haven't asked for an investigation on the NIFTY test yet. I shall perhaps do this again, because this is an even more recent one. There was also a question about the Dutch patients. I cannot prevent them from having such a test carried out in Belgium. This concerns cross-border care and is covered by a European directive and regulation. Of course, they can't get a refund here, but I can't forbid them. There have been conversations. Prices have already fallen, as they come from over EUR 800. However, I cannot allow the tests to be repaid at this price. However, we have had a proposal put forward to use them in the second line.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic105x.u130	Madam President, Minister, thank you for the answer. I still miss an answer to my first question about the classic combination test. I have read that this test is only carried out in 100 000 of the 128 000 pregnant women. I have not received an answer to the question as to why this test is not carried out in all pregnant women.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic105x.u131	This is actually covered by the normal examinations for each pregnancy: three ultrasound examinations and that test. I can only imagine that some people refuse to do so because they do not want to make a decision if the test is positive. Some people don't want to know, because an abnormal result wouldn't encourage them to stop pregnancy. However, the test is part of the usual pregnancy procedure.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic105x.u132	That is clear and I have received a good answer to the other questions. We are, of course, looking forward to the outcome of these negotiations.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic105x.u133	Madam Secretary, I understand that you cannot know everything and cannot have examined everything directly. The NIFTY test indeed concerns very recent medical information. However, it seemed to me very interesting information. You say you're going to investigate. We'll probably get another answer, won't we?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic105x.u134	I'm gonna have to ask.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic105x.u135	Madam Secretary, for those who have had a road accident and who, for example, have a chronic whiplash, a long and hard legal battle often begins. Insurance companies freely determine which doctor they work with and courts try to appoint independent experts. In practice, it appears that certain doctors who have already worked several times for an insurance company can act as experts in another case in order to defend the victim's interests, i.e. in fact against his former employer, who is the opposite. Victims are therefore right to question whether they have a fair chance. Hoven and courts have the legal capacity to draw up lists of experts, but so far they have no objective standards. There is also a limited range of doctors and specialists who want or can take the work to court. The Ministerial Decree of 22 January 2007 establishes the recognition criteria for the medical specialists, internships and internships for the specific field of insurance medicine and medical expertise. As early as 1998, a working group of magistrates, the court and the Bar Association decided to draw up a royal decree setting out the rules for drawing up a list of experts or experts. The qualifications, the appointment procedure, the assessment of experience and so on could be included. Do you have any knowledge of complaints regarding the perception of the impartiality of the experts? Has the number of complaints increased over the past five years? Can a circular containing directives or any other legislative initiative solve the practical problems, on the one hand the scarcity of experts and, on the other hand, the feeling of victims that their physical complaints are not being considered impartially? Finally, could you raise the issue with the Minister for Justice, Mr Geens, and possibly work out a solution together?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic105x.u136	Mrs Claerhout, I have no knowledge of an increasing number of citizens' questions about the independence of experts. The publication in the Belgian Official Journal of 19 December 2014 of the Law of 10 April 2014 establishing a national register of legal experts aims to further develop a quality expert study in our country. For the future, the requirements of professional competence and relevant experience are set as conditions for inclusion in the Register and that is additional to the existing provisions of the Code of the Court which, inter alia, pursue objective guarantees. The new legislative initiative may give rise to further consultations between Justice and the various sectors, including insurance medicine and medical expertise. I will therefore refer this to my colleague, the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic105x.u137	Madam Minister, thank you for that and I look forward to hearing more of it after you have raised the issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic105x.u138	Questions Nos 2286, 2290, 2354 and 2357 by Mrs Yoleen Van Camp are transformed into written questions. Question No 2294 by Mrs Karin Jiroflée was withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic105x.u139	Madam President, Madam Minister, in recent months there has been a shortage in Europe of the BCG vaccine of Calmette and Guérin, used to fight tuberculosis and also against bladder cancer. This phenomenon affects several countries in Europe, including ours and France. In Belgium, the two companies that market this medicine, Organon and Lampero, are no longer able to produce it and distribute it in sufficient quantities. The press reported shortly that three patients had been forced to stop their treatment in Belgium. In order to clarify this situation and to prevent the worsening of such a situation, I would like to ask you a few questions. What interim measures have been put in place to address this shortage? What about other possible solutions? What about the communication between the Federal Agency for Drugs and Health Products and patients, physicians and pharmacists in this regard? Does the Agency have more information on the shortage and on a possible solution that will emerge soon? Are any initiatives taken at European level to find a solution to the problem of the supply of this medicine?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic105x.u140	Madam President, I thank our colleague for letting us pass before her. Minister, I am not going to repeat what my colleague has said. One of the two companies he mentioned has to deal with production problems, while the other does not have the capacity to produce. This logically results in a shortage of vaccines. Other countries are involved. So we can't afford it. I would like to associate myself with the questions that have just been asked, and I would also like to know whether we know when a solution will be found. Is there a European scheme?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic105x.u141	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the introduction was made. I shall confine myself to questions, especially those that have not yet been asked. I'd have opened up the subject a little more. BCG is of course a specific problem, where sometimes it also fails when preparing the medication. It's coming to our attention now, but those stock breaches also occur with other medications. These are sometimes very common cases and crucial medications, such as Solu-Medrol, Myacalcic and certain cytostatics. What I particularly wanted to know is what should happen to the patients if that medication is no longer in stock. Are there any guidelines? Who gets priority? How come the information from the FAGG doesn't always match that from the firm? For example, in the specific case of BCG, conflicting information was displayed. The pharmaceutical companies, wholesalers and pharmacists have legal obligations regarding the correct supply of medication. They are also obliged to report the unavailability and the reason for it on the website of the FAGG. How often did the FAGG detect infringements in the past year? How many files of that were sent to the courthouse? What are the main reasons for the unavailability? As I said, for example, in the case of BCG, it can also be about problems with the production of medication by the hospital pharmacists themselves, while the hospital pharmacists themselves may, of course, be concerned with commercial interests. Can that be established? How often does that happen? What solutions do you provide for such problems? Are you thinking of making uniform price agreements with other countries, so that the difference in revenues is flattened? A second possibility is the creation of larger stocks. Do you still see the benefits of standardising certain treatments, for example oncological treatments, both nationally and internationally, which require great efforts on the ground and which apparently does not always lead to the desired benefit of continuity of treatment?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic105x.u142	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your questions. There is indeed a situation in Belgium, as well as in other countries, of the unavailability of this type of medicine. Due to the unavailability abroad, the standard approach, i.e. import, is virtually impossible. The AFMPS published a press release on its website for patients, physicians and pharmacists regarding the unavailability of Bacille de Calmette et Guérin (BCG)-based drugs. In order to optimise the use of the available stock, the AFMPS offers the health professionals concerned, especially urologists and oncologists, the rational use of stocks of OncoTICE and BCG-Medac which would still be available on the Belgian market. These recommendations are also available on the AFMPS website. It is recommended that the medicine be used only in patients for whom this treatment is indicated according to clinical guidelines such as, for example, the guidelines of the European Association of Urology. It is also recommended that the medicine be used only for the persons for whom it is recommended, hoping to continue with the stock present. In addition, the FAGG asks the health professionals concerned to contact it, to report supplies of medicinal products which would still be available in hospitals or which would still be in certain hospital pharmacists. Finally, the FAGG suggests alternative therapeutic approaches according to clinical guidelines, such as hyperthermia induced by microwaves, and the electric motor administration of medicinal products. By the way, the FAGG has advised the company to send a Dear Healthcare Professional Communication to the health professionals, oncologists and urologists involved. OncoTICE's availability is expected to end on 15 March 2015, according to the company debt holders. We shall see whether this is the case. These dossiers will be closely monitored at both national and European level. Therefore, the firms concerned shall make every effort to make the medicines available as soon as possible. Mrs. Van Camp, it's not just a matter of stock. Sometimes there is also a break in a production line. In this case, there are too few medicines sooner or later, knowing that vaccines also have a limited expiry date. An excessive stock supply is therefore equally dangerous, because of course a decayed vaccine cannot be used. You also ask very detailed questions about figures, for example about the number of times a supply problem has occurred. Unfortunately, I have to request that information in writing, because it could not be collected by my administration within the answer time. I would like to point out that it takes a great deal of work to look up all this through the administration and through the FAGG. As you know, there aren't thousands of civil servants out there. I would like to get those figures for you, but that will take a little more time. In any case, the problem also arises at international level. In case of stock breaks in medication, we must be able to play briefly on the ball. We will certainly continue to discuss this with all European countries. However, there are several possible causes at the source of potential stock breaches.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic105x.u143	Madam Minister, thank you. I hear everything could get back in order after March 15th. This will be important for all those patients who are in urgent need of this medication. We will remain attentive to this problem in the coming weeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic105x.u144	Madam Minister, thank you. I also keep an eye on this because patients are in a particularly serious situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic105x.u145	Mrs Van Camp, you are turning certain elements of your question into a written question, since it requires research.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic105x.u146	Madam President, I will put the rest of my questions in writing. I believe that it is important in this story to nuance and to find out exactly where the problems are.
