ParlaMint-BE_2015-08-19-54-commissie-ic229x.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, I have allowed myself the freedom to convene the Subcommittee on Nuclear Safety on full vacation because of the incident in Tihange on 13 August and the lack of clarity about its precise cause at any given time. Mr Bens is available to us today and has arrived in the meantime. He prepared a presentation which was distributed to the members. I have heard from the services that no rapporteur should be appointed because the people of the integrated report are here today. I therefore propose that we listen to Mr Bens' statement.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-08-19-54-commissie-ic229x.u2	I would just like to see how our report will be organised and when, since we do not appoint the rapporteur, it is put in the context of regular monitoring of the work. When will the report be available and accessible?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-08-19-54-commissie-ic229x.u3	It will be at the disposal of the committee members very soon.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-08-19-54-commissie-ic229x.u4	Therefore, we do not expect to have the whole or other elements.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-08-19-54-commissie-ic229x.u5	No.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-08-19-54-commissie-ic229x.u6	Thank you, Mr President, for the invitation. We haven't had time to translate slides into both languages. That is why they are partly in Dutch and partly in French. Hope that's not a problem. I also hope that everything is readable. Then I can start with the explanation. The presentation will be in 3 parts. First, the events that took place between April and July 13. On 13 July, a warning letter was sent to the Tihange power plant. The second part will deal with events between 14 and 29 July. On August 3, we sent them the Pro Justitia. The third part concerns the emergency stop on 12 August, which is a much more isolated incident than the rest. I'm going to describe some of the incidents that happened in this period. This is not an exhaustive list, but it is the most typical incidents that demonstrate why we had to act in this way. On 12 April, Tihange 3 stopped at the water treatment plant. A pit had to be flushed. In it, there are the sludges that are decanted and the water is released. When the water from a nuclear power plant is released, the radioactivity of that water is monitored before it is released. They must ensure and verify the availability of the radioactivity measurement before releasing. Following a succession of human errors, the release was carried out without the radioactivity measuring device being checked for availability. This is an incident that has been classified at INES level 1 and has been placed on the Agency's site. A few days later, another incident occurred: an infringement of the technical specifications. These specifications do not represent the details of an order as is commonly used in nuclear jargon. It is a catalogue of instructions to monitor the availability of safety equipment. There are two parts to this one. The first aspect concerns instructions when safety equipment is unavailable. These technical specifications indicate what needs to be done and within what time frame to do so. The second part sets out the monitoring measures that must be taken in operation to see if all the equipment is actually available. This is a very special concept in the jargon concerning nuclear power plants. I'll come back to that in my presentation. On 18 April, changes were being made to the fire-extinguishing circuit, i.e. water pipes. These specifications say that this tip of pipe could be unavailable for fourteen days. The work was planned to be completed within fourteen days, but it took a little longer: three more days. No one reported or requested an exemption. Normally, what is expected of an operator when it is about to derogate is that it warns the authorities and asks for a derogation, possibly with compensatory measures. This was not done; it was also an offence, which was classified as INES 0, because there were no major consequences. We're on the 9th of July. The technical specifications repeat what to do when safety equipment is unavailable. On the other hand, they indicate the monitoring measures that must be taken to attest to the availability of the equipment. It was found in the sprinkling circuit of the enclosure that these monitoring measures were not taken for a sufficiently long period of time for a sensor labeling problem. We checked some other equipment, but not the one we had to do. It is also a violation of technical specifications. A situation somewhat similar to that discovered on 9 July was discovered. These are tests on the fans of nuclear buildings: a signal detects if there are explosive gases in the atmosphere. If so, we're not going to take them to the building; we're stopping the ventilation. It's in the design of the power plant. Regularly, this protection must be checked to ensure that it is operational. On the same date, it was found that the transposition of this requirement into operational procedures was not good and that, over an extended period of time, these tests had not been carried out. So, again a violation of the technical specifications.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-08-19-54-commissie-ic229x.u7	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-08-19-54-commissie-ic229x.u8	Mandatory monitoring measures. Excuse me, sometimes it gets a little technical. I'm trying to avoid it as much as I can, but... On July 13, the Agency said that the level of comments needed to be raised. We have written a rather strict warning letter indicating that there have been many violations in recent times, particularly with regard to non-compliance with technical specifications or their measures. Tihange was told to put things in order, or we would have to take tougher measures. The letter was sent on 13 July. Lack of luck, on 14 July, another incident, an untimely closure of an isolation valve of the reactor building enclosure. The function of this building is to ensure that the radioactivity remains inside in the event of an accident, but also in normal operation. It's full of circuit penetrations coming in and out. There is also ventilation and therefore valves, valves that isolate these circuits when necessary. In normal operation, these circuits are open because the reactor building needs to be ventilated. One of these isolation valves closed inadvertently. This hinders exploitation. We tried, from the control room, to reopen the valve, without success. It was then deliberately blocked in the open position, without taking into account the technical specifications for operating this valve. It's a voluntary breach of orders. The valve was no longer available to perform its safety function. It's become an INES 1 On July 27th, Tihange 1 is the one who is stopping. In the intermediate cooling circuit, therefore an internal cooling circuit at the power plant, there are measurements of radioactivity. This must be done to verify that there is no radioactivity in this type of circuit. This chain was rendered unavailable as a result of work on an electrical board, and this almost unconsciously for the consequences it had. This is again a violation of the technical specifications, again an INES 1. I'm getting to the last technical incidents. For non-technicians, it's almost over! On July 29, 2015, two days later, again, a reactor building insulation valve was unavailable. Actions are planned and must be taken within four hours. We tried to handle the valve, but it didn't work. We assumed that the valve was available without really checking it out. And we have waited 30 hours to correct the defect effectively: thirty hours instead of four, it is still a rather significant infringement, especially on real safety equipment that must perform functions in the event of an accident. It was at that time that at the Agency, we said, "It is the drop that makes the vase overflow". We then took two coercive measures. We have taken two enforcement measures. The FANC Act provides for our nuclear inspectors to take those measures. The first is that we should signal the violations of a royal order in a pro-justitia, which is sent to the court for the follow-up it intends to give to it. The second measure concerns coercive measures imposed in a FANC decision, which should lead to the restoration of a potentially unsafe situation. I'll explain a little bit more about those two things. The projustitia explains the infringements in the most recent event. That was a deliberate breach of the existing rules. We have already formally questioned a number of people in the framework of pro-justitia. The case is now in the hands of the Hoei parish and so I cannot give much details about it, as is the case with all the files dealt with by the public prosecutor. What other measures have we taken to rectify the situation? Firstly, we have withdrawn from some of the operators and their hierarchy of Tihange 3 the company licence their permission to operate the plant, it can be compared to a driving licence. Those people must not stand on the buttons until the necessary remedial measures have been taken. This could be an additional training, an additional demonstration of the awareness of the importance of the specifications, that the safety culture is in order. We have already received a plan from the operator, which has been approved. This is now being implemented. Secondly, we have imposed less short-term measures on the operator, in particular to carry out a thorough analysis of all events, not only the few events that I mentioned and which have received an INES rate, but also to analyse what has happened over a period of one year: what are the root causes; what can be done about them? First, therefore, an analysis of the incidents must be carried out. Improving measures must then be taken, first and foremost in the area of farm workers. That's about the guys on the buttons. This is mainly aimed at training. We do not doubt their technical knowledge, but rather the cultural aspects. In English people speak of complacency, a kind of sustenance that is installed and which is absolutely out of the question if one wants to work with such installations. Both in terms of training and improving safety culture, we refer to a large number of international practices in this area. As far as the actions are concerned, the action plan will be extended not only to the company staff, but also to all the staff working at the plant. Everyone has to make their contribution to the operation. Even the subcontractors and the staff of third firms that are going to work there must be aware of what they are doing and of the measures to be taken to do the job well. Discussions are still ongoing between the Agency and the Tihange plant. By the way, I was in Tihange this morning to talk to the board. I have also spoken with a number of workers' representatives to answer their questions and to remind them of the importance of all these actions. The action plan is therefore in full swing. There are now clearly large movements in Tihange to substantially improve the safety culture. A little explanation about the recent emergency stop. There is an incident of August 12-13, which, as I have said, is somewhat separate from previous events. Now it's getting a little technical. There are the control rods that shut down the reaction. If the reactor works, it'll be kept out of the core and held with electromagnets. If the reactor has to be switched off, the power supply of the electromagnetic devices is cut off so that they are loose and the control rods fall into the core. There are two ways to supply that electrical power. On August 12th, one of these power supplies went out somewhere because of a malfunction. It's okay. The other one has the job insured. One will of course fix that faulty power supply. That happened on August 13th at night. In the execution of the free switch, in the jargon: the consignation, so that people can work safely on the installations and in this case are not electrocuted, a switch-off of the second power supply of the rods has also taken place. An electrical or electronic failure ensures that the control rods no longer see any voltage; they fall down into the core resulting in an automatic stop of the plant. A few minutes after the stop, the pressure in the secondary circuit dropped rather sharply. At that time, people didn't know why. The reason appears to be that there was a large steam demand from another user who still took off steam while the reactor was actually no longer working. As a result, the pressure below the alert threshold has fallen and the safety systems have entered into force. There has been an isolation of the reactor building. The phenomenon I have just spoken about works as follows: all valves are closed and the reactor in fact protects itself and shuts itself out so that there is no way of getting radioactivity out. At that moment, the pressure has begun to rise again, as planned and has stabilised. At that point, the heat still needs to be removed from the core. The problem with a nuclear reactor is that heat is always present, even when the reactor is still. That heat needs to be removed. This is done by vaporizing steam, blowing to the atmosphere. Two valves of the secondary system are used for this, but those valves have not been opened. This problem was addressed by the safety valves. The cooling of the reactor has always been assured. There was no problem in that respect. Examination of the two valves that have not worked shows that one valve was not controlled because there was a metal inclusion in the oil circuit, the other valve did not work due to an electrical failure on the steering mechanism. Eventually this was solved and the unit was completely stabilised in what is called hot standstill, at nominal pressure and temperature but without making power. Then there's been a little confusion about how long the stop would last. One or two days later Electrabel decided to do maintenance work on the primary circuit. Those maintenance works were planned a while ago. It was about the monitoring of a safety valve, which can only be done when the plant has stopped completely cold, so completely cooled. One would stop Tihange 3 for those working in October, when Tihange 1 would be completely on the net again. It is not unusual for a sudden, automatic and unforeseen shutdown to check whether planned works cannot be carried out at that time. Electrabel has decided to carry out the relevant works now; the works will last until about the end of next week. Mr President, I think I have covered the events of recent days, of recent weeks. I am now at your disposal to answer the questions of the members of this committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-08-19-54-commissie-ic229x.u9	Thank you very much, Mr Bens, for your statement. Who asks for the floor for a reply or additional questions? Mr Wollants has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-08-19-54-commissie-ic229x.u10	Thank you very much, Mr Bens, for your speech. I think this gives a clearer picture of what has actually been going on over the past few days and weeks. I think that, with the questions that we can ask here today, we should be able to see how they all went on the human side and what lessons can be drawn from them. I think it might be important at the end of our sitting to see whether or not we want to give Electrabel the floor on this basis. This will, of course, depend a little on the extent to which steps have already been taken. First of all, I would like to ask you to explain to us how exceptional these findings are. Has this happened before, or is this actually one of the first times that such sequence of facts occurs in a power station? Is it also true that it is purely about Electrabel's own staff? When it comes to a revision, there are a lot of externals active on the site. This could also happen for certain repairs. Was this the case here or is it purely about Electrabel's own staff? At the same time, a parallel could also be created. There's Tihange's site. I notice that almost all units of Tihange have been covered here in the overview. Have there been any findings in Objective pointing in the same direction? You spoke about the safety culture. Do you see a difference between both sites there? Should we intervene in both areas, or is that not necessary? You also intervened from the FANC. Here too, the question is how exceptional that is. We do not read every day in the newspapers about the preparation of pvvs for operators. Have such measures been taken before in Class 1 nuclear facilities? Has this happened or is this really an exceptional situation? In addition to the actions of the FANC, it is of course also important to know to what extent Electrabel has already taken steps. As a result of the measures taken by the FANC, of course, a number of cases were imposed on them. You spoke at some point about things that have already been done and others that still have to be done. I can also imagine that through this incident they have already taken steps themselves to ensure that such matters do not happen again. You yourself mentioned that things are already moving in the field of safety culture. Can you be more specific about that? How exactly is this going? Can you give us some examples of this, so that we can assess it in a good way? The technological factor is also associated with the human factor. We know that at a nuclear power plant, we're always dealing with a defense in depth. Have the parallel systems always reacted normally or should we note that in a number of cases there has been a succession of failures? You might be able to tell us a little bit more about that. I have also seen a reaction in the press in which Mr Vande Lanotte made the connection between the age of the power stations and the incidents. This was one of the better plants. So with the other one, things are much worse. It is not clear to me that the incidents you mentioned are related to their age. Is there really a link between these two aspects and what can we learn from them? Or is this mainly about the human factor and should we consider whether it is a cultural fact? You have outlined a route with a number of steps. Have you also set out a longer-term path, for example with additional controls and other measures? These four licences have been withdrawn, but in view of the fact that a number of incidents have been spread over the three units of Tihange, I can imagine that it will not remain with those four people and that there will have to be some sort of safety culture, followed up by the FANC. If you could tell us more about that, we will certainly be able to learn some things from it. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-08-19-54-commissie-ic229x.u11	Mr President, I would like to thank Mr Bens for his presentation, which was quite didactic. I don't think we can blame the Agency for the last few weeks. I think you've done everything you need to do. The attitude, the way the Agency works in relation to incidents, is quite reassuring. On the other hand, what is not reassuring, of course, is the multitude of incidents. Let's not even talk about the last two months, let's talk about the last two years. You have already come to report on incidents on several occasions. I find that the number of incidents we have known for months is exceptional. I have been a member of this committee since 2007 and I do not remember that in the first years of work there have been so many incidents, even minor ones. Incidents are always headlines in the press, worrying the public, parliamentarians. As a citizen, I am also worried. We have come out of very long debates on the renewal of the operation of the oldest power plants and there we have incidents in a less ancient power plant, Tihange 3 being not the oldest of the reactors. You describe very well the worries, the incidents, but you do not explain why, the cause of these incidents. Why is there so many? I share Mr Wollants' concern about a possible human problem in the control of subcontracting operations. I think it's important. But as far as the old facilities are concerned, is it to be questioned or not, according to your opinion as a nuclear sector gendarmerie in our country? On the other hand, I would not ask myself the question of whether to audition Electrabel. I think that the operators should be heard at this stage. The facts are serious enough for us parliamentarians to be asked to audition the operators. I therefore ask the President to do so, and I hope that my colleagues will share this concern. I would also like you to come back to the suspension or withdrawal of the approval of the four persons. In what context has this been done? Finally, would it not be useful to hear representatives of trade union organisations in this committee?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-08-19-54-commissie-ic229x.u12	Mr President, I will not repeat myself by asking all my questions again. However, I would like to add three points to the debate. I've been trying to figure out how many incidents there have been every year over the last ten years. Can you confirm my numbers? From 2004 to 2012, there are no or one incident each year and 2 in 2012. So no incident or incident was the rule. According to our count there were 5 incidents in 2014 and in this year there are 8, of which 7 incidents in one month. Those are very high figures. Either our account is incorrect and those 0 or 1 figures are not included. That's what I'd like to hear. So how did the number of incidents per year evolve? I assume that the FANC did its job properly in 2009, 2010, 2011 and 2012 not now, suddenly started working today. An increase in the number of incidents must concern us. It would be expected that there would be more incidents in the oldest nuclear power stations, which would make sense. This does not seem to be the case here. Most incidents have occurred in recent months and not in the oldest plants. That raises additional questions. How is it that a younger nuclear power plant is constantly having problems? Seven incidents in one month is incredibly much, because if that weren't a lot, you wouldn't have responded with a pv yourself. We had auditions in April, including about the cracks. Then Professor Bogaert explained to us that those cracks could be specific. This was contradicted by Mr van Walle of the SCK who did not regard Professor Bogaert's theory as exotic. That was all insane. Professor Bogaerts also said, although I cannot repeat his exact words, he was a little involved in the evaluation of the cracks planned by the FANC. He made it clear that he could probably come and say his thoughts but that it would remain so. Meanwhile, cracks were discovered in Switzerland in July. Many thought that the cracks here in Belgium were caused by an error in production. The fact that cracks were also found in Switzerland is a cause for concern. My question is as follows. Will the entire theory put forward by Professor Bogaerts be investigated within the FANC? Does he wish to be involved in the work on safety? After all, the find of cracks in Switzerland is far from reassuring. I'm sure you're aware of that. Can you give me your opinion on that?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-08-19-54-commissie-ic229x.u13	Mr President, I am very much in favour of this. None of the incidents have had any impact on humans, the environment or the environment, but the sequence of such incidents does raise questions about the safety of nuclear power plants. It must therefore be clear that such incidents can no longer be tolerated by human beings or manipulation or action. In November, the FANC would take a decision on Objectives 3 and Tihange 2. In this context, it is therefore essential to have reliable staff, especially since the judicial investigation of Objective 4 has not yet been completed. I would therefore like to ask a number of questions. A number of fellow Members have already done so. Firstly, the FANC has followed the incidents closely and, in view of the fact that I know that the procedure is that the warning had no effect, has lodged a complaint with the prosecutor's office. The main problem is therefore that problems were not reported in time and that the operator handled the safety culture very loosely. I would therefore like to ask the question of a plan of action. Can there be some kind of quarterly follow-up on the actions to be taken? This concerns not only Tihange's units, but also Doel's units in view of their lifespan. Secondly, what about the training update? You are asking for a training programme, which means that there was no such programme. How are updates given? How can staff remain alert and how does the company cope with incidents? That question is therefore about transparency because of Electrabel. Should there not be any more sensitising of staff? It would, I think, be only natural for a comprehensive programme to be unraveled in order to optimise the safety of power stations and minimise incidents caused by human acts. I believe, Mr President, that such a plan should also be followed up in your committee. In addition to the question of whether the word is given to Electrabel, we should also make an agreement in committee that, when such a plan is presented, we should periodically, for example quarterly or six-monthly........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ Thirdly, in view of the recent problems in the power stations, more than ever, there is a need for a thorough control of the two oldest power stations. That suggestion was also made. When does it start? I would also ask that Parliament be given an explanation of all the dysfunctions of Tihange 1 and 3, particularly as to why the various disfunctions are involved. Didn't it take too long before the FANC sent a letter of notification? Is it true that this did not happen until 13 June, when three incidents had already occurred? This is a questioning session. I would also like us to reach an agreement at the end of our committee on the follow-up of this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-08-19-54-commissie-ic229x.u14	Mr President, Mr Bens, I would like to ask you questions of various kinds. Some agree with those already put forward by some of my colleagues; others deal with other aspects. Having said that, I would like to say a few words about the context. Indeed, the multiplication of the incidents that have occurred has cause for concern. Beyond the majority-opposition divide, the questions asked by most of the colleagues present here reflect their concern. Indeed, we are concerned about the evolution of the safety culture, which has become a culture of profitability. Speaking in this way, I use your own words. Remember your famous interview that reflected the facts, even if no one questioned you at your previous committee hearing on this subject. In any case, we can now see a proliferation of incidents. Earlier, you started your speech by giving us a list of the multiple incidents that have occurred in the last few weeks, while letting us know that this list was not exhaustive. Could you tell us what problems were not addressed? Indeed, many incidents occurred in a few days. But could you tell us which ones are not yet on the site of the Federal Nuclear Control Agency and which are not on your Powerpoint? Does the Agency have statistics on the evolution of the number of incidents? I'm not just talking about the incidents listed here. Mr Vande Lanotte referred earlier to the question of the evolution of the number of such incidents. At the site, only INES 1 incidents are found, although INES 2 and 3 incidents are also discussed. Can you provide us with information on the evolution of the total number of incidents, beyond the list published on your site, as you stated that this list was not exhaustive? Secondly, I would like to know more precisely what the pro justitia you have tabled is about. We also know the context in which this is going on. In a few days, a few weeks or at the latest in a month or two, the Agency must take a decision on, on the one hand, the extension of Doel 1 and Doel 2, and, on the other hand, on the thousands of cracks in the Doel 3 and Tihange 2 plants. In this context, it is a good thing that the Agency is showing a little bit of teeth. That's clear. Probably you're going to tell us earlier that the pro justitia deposited is a first. I'd like to know exactly what he's on. Some journalists say it deals exclusively with an incident. Now, you seem to say that in fact, in pro justitia, you have a list of several elements. I wanted to know what the various incidents were in the pro justitia you filed with the Public Prosecutor's Office. The third dimension to my questions, the Agency has intervened and you have imposed a series of measures. In the slides, and in the absence of error, the list of measures is not exhaustive in any case. You are talking about an action plan, but you have not made a statement of the measures you have either imposed or proposed to Electrabel. However, in order to be able to carry out the evaluation, and I already fully agree with colleagues, and particularly with Mr Dewael, who referred to the need for regular monitoring, we must also be able to know what measures have been requested and how they should be carried out in such a way that our assessment can be relevant. In particular, it was confirmed yesterday that one of the owners of the Tihange plant was not dismissed but at least probably transferred to another site of Electrobel or the parent house. Is this one of the measures you asked for, desired, mentioned? Or did you, as a federal agency, learn it yesterday from the press? Is this the first time that we have talked about Mr Moreau's problem in order not to mention him, or is he in any way one of the main culprits of this multiplication of incidents? Has the Agency raised this more personal issue with Electrabel officials in recent days? On the one hand, can you send us the list of measures submitted to Electrabel and, on the other hand, is there any connection with this departure? Like Mr. Dewael, I also go back to the Federal Agency's deadline for communication. Now I don't understand. I come out of Tihange's problem here and I come up with the Agency's communication problem. You are the guarantor of transparency and information to the general public. Why, as the incident occurs on July 29, 2015, to take this one, do you only contact yourself eight days later on your website on August 6? Is it due to the holidays? Why is it necessary to wait eight days between the general public's communication about an incident that took place on July 29, 2015? You're dubious, but I've got your site in front of you. And if we look at the previous incidents, your site reports on August 6th about an incident that you point out as having occurred on Wednesday, July 25, 2015. There's no Wednesday, July 25. It's Tuesday, whatever. That's not what's important. What is more important is that your Powerpoint presentation does not mention the Tihange 1 incident of 25 July. You're pointing it at July 27th. Is this an additional incident that is not on the list? That's possible, since you said you weren't exhaustive. Or is it the same date from another date that is not the right date because Wednesday July 25 does not exist and it is a Tuesday? I'd like to make it clear. Beyond that, if the date of 25 July 2015 is correct, it is still 12 days between the time of the incident and the time of the communication on the website. Do you find that normal? Is this the Agency's traditional internal procedure? If we go back a little further in the previous incidents, to the July 14 incident, the date goes between the one mentioned on your website and your Powerpoint file, but for this incident, it took the Agency 16 days to communicate. What confidence can we have in the fact that the Agency is the guarantor of transparency and public information in relation to the proliferation of incidents? People are thinking, maybe in a month, we'll learn that there's been a whole series of incidents again. Why, for example, does not your approach already dated 13 July, a kind of warning mail, appear anywhere? At that time, nothing was officially communicated. However, it is an important warning and it seems to me that, in terms of safety and security, what prevails is to inform, even if only parliamentarians – as you do when coming here – but also via your site, so that citizens, associations, residents, workers can also receive the information. As you can see, I also have a whole series of questions about your own communication in this kind of situation. Technical question now: did the July 14th incident trigger the implementation of the valve operating test on July 29th? Is there a link between the two incidents? It is known that the operating test was not conducted correctly, in any case in relation to the standards. In addition, Electrabel has procrastinated regarding the recovery date. As a first step, she had announced a revival on Friday, or even last Saturday. Then it was learned that the revival would take place on Saturday, August 28 to anticipate the checks and usage updates scheduled for October, I think. This seems to us to be consistent; criticism does not relate to the fact that there is anticipation but to the fact that there has been a procrastination in the communication. Is it a board of the Agency? Did you intervene about this recovery date by advising them to carry out the work? Did this work include the replacement of the tank lid?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-08-19-54-commissie-ic229x.u15	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-08-19-54-commissie-ic229x.u16	You'll tell us what's going on. With regard to the very last incident, the one that caused a total cessation of production in Tihange 3, the Agency's reaction was to say that it was statistically normal, that this type of cut occurred roughly once a year, that it was quite different from other human-scale incidents, although we know that there was also a technical dimension in the other incidents. Can you now confirm that, statistically, each plant stops on average once a year, no more, because of a problem such as the one encountered on August 14. In your communications – not on the site, but in response to journalists – you also mentioned that an administrative fine was being considered. Did you bring this measure into force or do you keep it under your control for the next incident(s)? In short, what could this fine be? How important would it be? Have you ever brought it into force? And then, like Mr Vande Lanotte, I will end with a few questions in connection with the fissures file at the Tihange 2 plant. When we received you on 8 July, a little over a month ago, you told us that Electrabel was putting the final hand – these are your comments in the report – to the writing of his safety case. We're here a month later. Unless I am mistaken, there is no information on the site about the filing of this document. Can you tell us where that is? I was already wondering at the time about the fact that the board of international experts which had met at the end of April had still not submitted its report. This is very particular, because these experts had to meet urgently for two or three days in Brussels. However, we are almost at the end of August and this report has not yet been submitted. However, this is a step prior to the publication of a safety case. I suppose we will still wait for the report of the experts, who must position themselves on the methodology, to see if the tests that are being carried out are the right ones. So, what about the publication of this report? That's my second question about cracks. What is the most optimistic timetable? I am not asking you what the real timetable will be since I know very well that you will take the time to analyse it. We know that the experts have not yet submitted their report, that Electrabel must then return its safety box, that you must analyze it, etc. Still about the cracks, I wanted to know if you had any contact with your Swiss counterpart. Indeed, in Beznau, they also discovered that there were cracks in that power plant. Have this information changed the Agency's thinking? The main assumption is that it was the fault of the company RDM (Rotterdamsche Droogdok Maatschappij) that had delivered the tank to Tihange 2 and Doel 3. However, in Switzerland, the company that delivered the tanks is not RDM. So the main hypothesis is no longer on the road. How did you integrate this dimension into your analysis? Will this require further analysis? Could you confirm to me that there is a common point between Beznau 1, the Swiss power station, and Doel 3 and Tihange 2? All 3 operated with MOX, which is not the case for the other plants. Would these cracks not be related to what I have already called the "MOX hypothesis" at the time in the use of fuel in power plants. Could you tell us how this MOX hypothesis is analyzed as part of the fissures file on Tihange 2 and Doel 3?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-08-19-54-commissie-ic229x.u17	Thank you, Mr Bens, for being here again on our committee. You are beginning to become a permanent partner of our committee. I am pleased that you are always prepared to explain yourself here and that you are communicating transparently, not only in Parliament, but also on the website we always find all the information. I've already found a lot of information on the FANC's website about the incidents. So the FANC is doing its best. We are indeed in a special situation at the moment, as the President said. Collaborating a subcommittee, in the middle of the parliamentary recess, about the incident, as you called it, is exceptional. I keep wondering, I have not received an answer to this question so far, whether the situation really is that exceptional. I think we can distinguish between two aspects. The first is not so much about the incident, but rather about a sequence or sequence of a number of technical incidents, in a fairly short period of time, on one site. All incidents vary and have an INES code from 0 to 1. I won't talk about the content of every incident in itself. It has already been sufficiently explained. However, I keep wondering whether this is an exceptional situation. Like Mr Vande Lanotte, I have already made some enquiries about the number of incidents on that site in recent years. I have looked at the annual report and I come to different figures than Mr Vande Lanotte. That's why I'd rather ask you the question. Can you give me an overview?I understand that you don't have the figures today, but you can give us those maybe later on about the number of incidents in the past 5 or 10 years on the Tihange 3 site? Can you also mention the INES code? We are only talking about INES codes 0 and 1. I believe that a comparison with other sites can also be interesting. Can you also list what happened on other sites? Were there many incidents there? Can you also compare it with similar plants in other countries? The INES codes are international, allowing for an international comparison. There are similar nuclear power plants in other countries. It is important that we can make that comparison, to determine whether or not we are effectively in an exceptional situation. A second aspect is the nonchalance and infringement of legislation. Nonchalance on nuclear safety is absolutely impossible. The rules must be respected. The FANC must remain vigilant in this respect. You have shown your alertness by immediately drawing up a pv and an action plan. But here again my question is: is this exceptional? Has the FANC in the past had to draw up pvvs of this kind or take such actions with other operators on other sites? I also liked to get an overview of that. Many questions have already been asked about the measures you have taken, so I will not go into them further. What is missing is the further timeframe of the action plan. Could you possibly be more specific about that? Those are pretty much my questions. It is very important to continue to be vigilant about nuclear safety: we must remain alert, but also watch over it so as not to cause panic. With me, the question remains whether this is exceptional or not. I hope to get an answer to that today.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-08-19-54-commissie-ic229x.u18	Mr President, in my turn, I would like to say that we are concerned about the events reported, so it was important to meet today in this regard. But unlike others, I would like to congratulate the Agency on the controls it has carried out and the transparency with which it has worked on this issue, as well as on the concrete measures that have already been taken. I would like to stress the efficiency of the work. Like colleagues Wollants, Vande Lanotte and Dierick, I think we need to put these incidents in context. There are obviously the number of incidents, but also their seriousness. A succession of small incidents is not as important as a large incident on the INES scale. Having figures on the number and severity of incidents seems important to me to allow us to assess the situation. We can also compare with international standards and see in other countries – in France, for example – the number of level 1 incidents reported per year for a conventional power plant. Mr Nollet said that the main focus should be on the incident that led to the shutdown of the plant. Could you give us more details on the exact causes of the arrest? This is a particular situation. And finally, like my colleagues, I agree with Electrabel on these issues as well.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-08-19-54-commissie-ic229x.u19	Thank you, Mr President, also for organising today's sitting. Similar words of thanks to you, Mr Bens, for coming and explaining. My questions and comments are also in line with the broad consensus that exists in this committee on the question of complacency, which does not fit in with the nuclear sector and which is unheard of. The fact that we can derive from the presentation and media coverage that there is a certain nonchalance in the sector and from the operator is unacceptable. I would like to invite you to use this support and consensus to show you as a watchdog with teeth in this dossier and the other files, because there are still a lot of things on the agenda. It would indeed be a good thing if we also started talking to the operator. Parliament and the political world must send a clear signal that we do not accept that the safety of our citizens and the environment is being sloppy, especially since the people of Electrabel have made this point at other times. They have told us in this Chamber how safe they are in our power stations and that the Belgian power stations are one of the absolute world leaders. That's the story people come here to hang in the Chamber. Today we are once again confronted with complacency and nonchalance. That is unacceptable to me. I think that we should call on them to do so and invite them to the Chamber. I also hope that the Integrated Report will quickly reach the cabinet of Minister Marghem. Of course, she should not be present in this committee, so I do not want to take her up, but I hope she will read the Integrated Report and review your PowerPoint presentation with due attention. Mr Clarinval, Mrs Marghem said not so long ago in this committee that we are absolute leaders in security, that the people of Electrabel deserve our trust and that Objective 1 and Objective 2 should be extended for 10 years because they are doing this well. The majority have pressed the green button before the recess when it comes to an operator on which it comes up today. In fact, you have all, together, been sorry that I am becoming as polemical at the moment when the FANC makes those findings, giving people a tax discount of tens of millions of euros during the holiday. Today you are outraged, but you do business with those people all the time. You're constantly rubbing around these people's balls and telling them to keep doing things. I would nevertheless like to invite the majority to show the necessary consequence in this respect. I hope that the Minister who has said in other debates in this House that we are doing a great job in the field of nuclear safety will have the courage to change her opinion on this matter. I think it's time for that. More specifically, it is not clear to me what timing is foreseen for restarting Tihange. Could you be more specific about that? If people don't do their jobs right, they must of course be punished for that. I think the withdrawal of employees' licenses is actually a little inadequate. You yourself have also spoken about the fact that it is a cultural issue and that this attitude is actually quite common. I do not want to put words in your mouth, but I do understand your explanation that this culture is widely present in the company and the operator as a collective and has a great responsibility as a company in it. The withdrawal of the licences of four individual employees and the preparation of a remedial plan are therefore largely insufficient. My question is as follows. How far-reaching are the measures to improve the safety structure? What am I supposed to do with that? I also wonder whether such findings should not have a clearer and more punitive effect. Eventually, that safety culture isn't right. You're withdrawing licenses, but in the meantime, the plant is still running. There are no steps in this direction. Perhaps the operator there should receive a much clearer signal that this reactor will not be restarted until the safety problems have been resolved. Another option is pay. There has been talk of an administrative fine. Is that still part of any plans? What possibilities do you have there? I note that the people of Electrabel know only one language, namely the language of the pennies. So I suggest that we speak that language as well. Insecurity is rewarded today with a tax discount, because if power stations are stalled, nuclear interest rates will fall. I think that you should give a signal in that respect, which, as far as I am concerned, may be financial. Do you have any timing in mind for the crack file? As far as I am concerned, Mr Nollet and Mr Vande Lanotte also referred to it. The news from Switzerland is very relevant. I assume that this has also been a possible reason for you to consult the experts there and to bring together the international experts who have followed both dossiers. Then perhaps you can also take the opportunity to explain further the similarities and differences between the findings and the history of the two crack reactors. That is three questions for you, Mr Bens. I hope, in particular, that you have noted that we in this Chamber support a watchdog with teeth and that you do not cast any doubt on the role of the agency in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-08-19-54-commissie-ic229x.u20	Mr President, I will not go back to a set of questions that have already been asked. I would like to address an issue that I believe has not yet been raised. We are in the subcommittee on nuclear safety in the Committee on the Interior. The issue of local authorities, including the authorities of the city of Huy, should also be addressed. As I understand it, the local authorities have been contacted, but still in some way. Bourgmestre in office or in office, aldermen, communal officials... I can't help but ask three questions. They may not be specifically addressed to Mr Bens, but these three questions should be included in our reflection. First, are the protocols of relations between the authorities sufficiently precise? Address, name, telephone, etc. Are all these elements included? This is a very practical question. Secondly, a more general question: does the municipal authorities not have a place in the dialogue between the Agency and Electrabel? Thirdly, in the municipalities concerned, and a number of municipalities have been mentioned, are public officials and public officials sufficiently prepared to address this specific issue? Is the way in which our municipalities are organised and operated adapted to this set of errors, whether technical or human?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-08-19-54-commissie-ic229x.u21	Mr Bens, on several banks the question was asked about the permanent follow-up of the measures you have imposed, the plan of action. I assume that there is also an internal follow-up. Can you suggest how this would be best done by our committee in the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-08-19-54-commissie-ic229x.u22	Mr President, I shall begin with Mr Wollants' questions. How exceptional are the past events, both in fact and in response? This corresponds to the demand of other people for numbers and for comparisons with earlier and other countries. I believe that such sequence of infringements is indeed exceptional. Personally, I don't remember seeing that. Have they been translated into INES notifications and public communications each time? In this respect, we have the problem that has evolved over time if we want to compare it. Belgium has certainly been at the forefront of publishing as much as possible, not only for nuclear power plants but also for other institutions. When one looks at our website, for example, there is also a lot of the gammagraphy sector, where we also use this tool, which is not common in other countries either. I don't think there's a single incident in Germany. However, it is physically impossible that nothing ever happens there. These international comparisons do not always apply. Over the years, we have achieved a great deal in terms of communication and transparency. Ten years ago it was exceptional to report something that had happened in a power station, which has now become almost routine. So it's very difficult to compare. In my opinion, the sequence of breaches of technical specifications seems rather exceptional to me. As far as the FANC's reaction to nuclear power stations is concerned, it is indeed the first time that we have reacted so violently, with a pro-justitia. We have written other pro-justitia. The fact that we write a pro-justitia is not exceptional. That's usually reactive in larger incidents. The previous one we wrote was the result of the incident in Ostend with the plane that was dismantled there and contained uranium that was unknown. There's been follow-up with the parquet. Then I'll have to go further back. About ten years ago, there was one at Sterigenics for an overirradiated person. That too was followed. It's already done. In particular, in the case of smaller installations, it is even more frequent, in the medical and industrial sectors, that infringements are recorded there per projusti tion. You also asked if it was just about your own staff. As far as compliance with the technical specifications is concerned, it concerns its own staff. In business operations, it is mainly its own staff and the responsibility in this respect certainly lies with its own staff. In the case of maintenance work, a lot is done by subcontractors. That is why they are included in the action plan. Eventually, Electrabel's staff are responsible for what's happening. There are also occasional cases of this kind in Doel, but I believe that this may have happened once this year. We have also sent a letter to Doel to remind those responsible that they do not have to think that it is all about them. We pointed out to them that they should not fall into the same error. There was also the question of whether the approach had worked defense in depth. How are we protected from major incidents? There is a succession of barriers here. There are a number of technical barriers, a number of human and also a number of administrative barriers. None of those barriers are perfect. The model used is Swiss cheese, cheese with holes. Each barrier is a slice of cheese and there are holes in it, big or small. If all barriers are placed after each other and until those holes are in the same line, they are protected. There is a risk that these holes will become larger with successive failures of those barriers. As long as a barrier still holds, there is actually no major incident. We have pointed out to those responsible that one of their barriers is downgrading and asking them to take action to re-establish that barrier before anything serious occurs. In this context, our intervention must be seen. The things we have established have nothing to do with the age of the power stations. Tihange 3 is by the way the youngest plant in the Belgian park. This is purely about the human factor. The other incidents were also very coincidental. It's not about technical failures due to aging. That is being looked at thoroughly, but we have not found anything to suggest it. Mr Thiébaut said that much more was being said about the incidents here in committee, especially this past year. I also believe that the sensitivity has increased a lot. There are incidents. Let's take the one in Tihange 3, if it had happened five years ago, no one would have mentioned it. We are much more sensitive to what has happened with nuclear power plants in recent years, especially since the risk of electricity shortages in the winter. Each nuclear incident is considered a risk. It must be said that it is the largest power plant with 1,000 megawatts at a time. If a conventional power plant triggers - I think the largest one has a capacity of 400 or 450 megawatts - it has less importance and impact on the global park. Oldness, in my opinion, is not a cause. As far as the withdrawal of the licence is concerned, the message we send is that when we see people making incorrect decisions, can we afford to leave them at the controls of a nuclear power plant? It is still a fairly powerful tool, which requires good knowledge and reactions to exploit it. These people demonstrated in this incident that they were making decisions that were not correct. I think we can no longer allow them to continue flying the power plant. Their level of knowledge, therefore, needed to be increased primarily on these technical specifications. That's the context. We also wanted to convey the message that we are not targeting individual workers but that the system itself is also involved. For this reason, among the four, there are also members of the hierarchy who have not put in place a system to ensure that this specification is properly complied with. I think that's the way to look at this context. I have already answered Mr Vande Lanotte's questions about the last 10 years. We've spoken to Professor Bogaerts several times. The phenomena he describes had already been examined from a closer perspective at the discovery of those first clues in 2012. Then it was said it wasn't about that. Professor Bogaerts and his American colleague Professor MacDonald brought this news just before the summer. They reviewed it, together with a number of international experts who have been introduced by the FANC, by Electrabel and by Professor Bogaerts. As far as I understand from the meetings, these people say it's no problem. But the formal report isn't finished either. It will certainly be included in the final conclusions. The Beznau plant in Switzerland is similar to that of Objective 1 and 2 in size. It also dates from the same period and from the same supplier. They have followed our recommendation very closely. As soon as we have established the indications in question, we have informed all the power stations in the world so that they will also examine their reactor vessels further. The Swiss consciously did so and indeed found a number of indications in Beznau 1. Last week we sat together with our Swiss colleagues on this issue. The situation is not quite the same. There are similarities. It's about another place in the cockpit. The indications look different. But the cause could also be a mistake in the manufacturing process, namely between casting and forging. The Swiss are not much further in their analysis, which started about a month ago. This also means that we are going to look closely at Objectives 1 and 2. The Objective 2 inspection campaign is scheduled for October, the Objective 1 inspection campaign in November. We are very curious about what that will yield. Mr Dewael, you are asking for the follow-up of the action plans and the complaint. It is certainly our role to follow that closely. As a federal agency, this is our job. It is Parliament's job to watch over the FANC. In this context, it is therefore logical that explanations should be provided on a regular basis. In fact, at the beginning of the legislature, I have already told the President that I would like to explain the whole operation of the FANC and everything that is happening on a regular basis, in order to monitor our activities. Every time I come here, I also notice that the subjects are becoming wider than the original ones. So it is certainly not a problem to explain how we deal with it. As far as the oldest power stations are concerned, we are indeed checking whether Electrabel is implementing the integrated action plan before they can restart. Why have we only just reacted now? This has to do with the way in which we deal with the means of enforcement. We can rely on different means of enforcement: an alert, a written warning, an inspection report, a pro-justitia to the eventual closure of power stations. Care must be taken to ensure that the resources are adequate for the type of infringements. In this case, we have assessed the appropriate resources and have also made it clear that, if there is no improvement, the next step is to complete the site. However, we are not yet ready to do so. If we look now at the previous incidents, what is currently going on with the current knowledge, one would probably say that there were several indications. That is always the case when one looks at the past with today's knowledge. Then one can see more clearly what is to be seen. In the end, we could have said that it would be all right and that we would have kept quiet about it. However, we have deliberately taken rather far-reaching action. Mr. Nollet referred to a non-exhaustive list. It all depends on what we mean by "incident." In a power plant, there are always defects that need to be repaired. The aim here is to establish thresholds for the problems dealt with. But, as I said, we will look at the problems that have arisen in the past and see if those that arise today are related to them. We will also see if there is an increase in the number of problems identified. What is the record of the proceedings, the pro justitia? Your question is a little confused. Is there one or more incidents for you? In itself, pro justitia is a finding of an infringement of a law, royal decree or authorization. To be clear and clear, only the 29th incident is an offence. The pro justitia was therefore focused on this incident. However, in the coercive measures imposed by the Agency in its order, the full range of incidents that occurred was resumed. Perhaps this explains the confusion that has been made. The list of measures imposed is as follows: - the withdrawal of the licence and the obligation of people to conduct the training again, the passage before the enabling committee so that they can regain their licence, - the analysis of events, and on the basis of this analysis, the taking of measures to improve the training of driving people, their culture, but also the organisation of training for all staff of the Agency, but also for subcontractors with a view to improving their safety culture. These are the conditions imposed by the Agency. Electrabel is currently looking at its action plan and the timing of its action plan, which we oversee and which we will be asked to approve once it is ready. It is obvious that this plan will have to bear fruit quite quickly. Following the contacts I have had with the Tihange officials, I can tell you that they are putting in place the necessary means to improve this matter. This brings me to the question of the transfer of a member of the management that you have mentioned and whose press has echoed. I regret that the name and photo of the person concerned have been published in a certain press, especially since this transfer has nothing to do with the incidents that have occurred. I met the person in question this morning. She's upset. Be aware, however, that this is the gentleman who, as part of his career development, asked to be transferred to another position. It's a coincidence that this gentleman's transfer took place at the time the incidents occurred. The press made him a scapegoat. This media battling is very regrettable. As far as the deadlines for the Agency's communication are concerned, this is a policy on our part. We don't have a Twitter account. It's not our will to communicate every hour about what's going on. We want the Agency's communication to be well thought out, with content, and validated. When, for example, a power plant is triggered, it is not news in itself. If there is an incident, we really want to understand and analyze what happened. It takes several days. Even if, for this kind of incident, we try to go as fast as possible. But to put some content in it, it takes a little more time. I'm not surprised it takes two or three days. For example, the pro justitia was written on Monday evening, sent on Tuesday and was posted on Thursday evening on the Agency's website. In addition, at that time, we had a technical incident on our site. If not, the pro justitia would have been faster online. Unhappiness never comes alone! The date of re-launch of the plant that has changed is a decision of Electrabel. I also explained it in my slides. When a power plant is shut down, we look at whether there are any work that can be done, during a period of hot shutdown (without cooling the entire power plant) and during a period of cold shutdown, which leads to cooling of the power plant. And in the latter case, we left for more or less an additional week. We proposed to Electrabel not to do this work on the pressurizer valve at this stop but to keep it in the stop planned for October. The next day, they decided to still cool down the plant and perform the operation on this valve. There is really a technical reasoning behind this decision. This choice does not involve the Agency in this case. This has no impact on safety. The tank cover was replaced during the April-May cut-off. That is not what we are talking about. The administrative fine is also a tool of coercion that we can take, which we will put in place if necessary. For the time being, our main goal is to improve the situation and safety. The punitive is not our highest priority in the Agency's approach. Our mission is to ensure the safety of people and we aim to improve the situation. That's our top priority. It's the role of the Public Prosecutor's Office. We therefore give them the freedom to do so. What's the status of the Tihange 2 and Doel 3 files? A version of the safety box for both power plants was received from Electrabel. It's under examination in our house. The methodology used seems correct, but we are in the process of analysing in detail with all the consultants we are working with to do so. As far as the International Review Board is concerned, they have not yet finalized their report. They are almost there but there are still e-mails that exchange between the members because they do not fully agree on how to say it. This is happening between these people and we give the chairman of the board the freedom to wait for an agreement with all these colleagues to be reached. An optimistic timetable? I'll give you the same answer I gave Mrs. Lalieux a month ago. I hope I have a quiet New Year's holiday. I'm not going any further. We have to do the analysis. Quality is the most important thing. But if these files could be closed this year, it would be a good thing but without any guarantee or pressure on me. In addition, Beznau and Doel are not the only plants that burned MOX. In France, almost the entire park uses MOX. Uranium oxide and uranium-plutonium mixed oxide have been studied. The difference is that the neutron spectrum is slightly different, especially the spectrum of fast neutrons, but as there is the water moderator between the two, the effect on the irradiation of the vats is minor. Therefore, I do not believe that an MOX effect caused these indications. Mrs Dierick, I have already explained the survey. Nonchalance and complacency absolutely cannot be achieved. I used to teach a lot about nuclear safety. I then closed my class with the picture of a cyclist. Nuclear safety is like cycling: one has to keep kicking or one falls over. We must always be aware of the need to make efforts to ensure safety. One has to be thoughtful. At the moment a cyclist slackens, he risks falling over. That's the kind of image that's gonna appeal to some people. They always try to improve, because they think they never reach the level they want. Efforts must continue to be made to this end. You said don't panic. I do believe that the people do not have to be afraid of a major disaster. The barrier to human error and the human approach has been weakened, but it is now being reinforced again. The rest of the barriers are still there. So there is absolutely no need to panic. In response to Mr. Clarinval's question on number and gravity in comparison with other countries, I explained the difficulty that this represents. The exact cause of the Tihange 3 release is an electrical fault in the system that keeps control clusters out of the heart. It's a passive system. If the electrical tension disappears, the clusters fall. Two circuits supply these electromagnets. A circuit broke down for a reason I don't know yet. We wanted to fix it and it was by preparing this repair that the other circuit started. For the rest, it is still necessary to investigate whether it is an electrical error, a short circuit in the control system. That's for the direct reason that Tihange 3 was triggered. Mr Calvo, complacency is not appropriate. I was in Tihange this morning. I note that the people I have spoken to, including the workers' representatives, are aware that safety is important, that they must not lose sight of this and that action is needed. I think they're on the same page. There will probably be some discussion about what actions are needed, but that will come. I'll leave the reactions to Mrs. Marghem and Electrabel on your behalf. The withdrawal of a licence in itself is, of course, not enough. It's not like we're targeting a few people. It's about the very broad culture that needs to improve. I can see that there is a sense of awareness among Electrabel, as well as among the staff and the management, that the mobilisation is there, that people are starting to get started there. If the momentum, also created by Electrabel, continues now, it will improve. Then we should not proceed with further enforcement actions. I've talked about the timing of Target 3 and Tihange 2. Then there is the problem of local authorities.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-08-19-54-commissie-ic229x.u23	Mr Bens, you say that further action is not necessary if everything is to evolve properly. My question, however, is also what further actions are possible. Why, for example, did you not stop? That was a clearer signal, wasn't it? Since there is a possible administrative penalty in the communication of the FANC itself, could you please comment on my suggestion that such abuses should also be punished financially?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-08-19-54-commissie-ic229x.u24	Mr Calvo, that is a possibility. Financial penalties are in the punitive sphere and we have to wait to see whether or not the prosecutor is prosecuting and what sanctions it is taking. If necessary, the court can decide to return the case to the FANC. So the financial penalties are in that circuit. The complete decommissioning of power stations is indeed a possible action, which does not belong to the repressive sphere, but rather to the preventive one. In order to avoid a dangerous situation, as the law says, we can say that a power station is no longer allowed to operate. However, we do not think that is the issue at the moment and that there are sufficient improvements. That is a stick that we are still holding behind the door in order to put further pressure on the operator. As far as local authorities are concerned, it is the responsibility of operators to have contacts with local residents and local authorities. Formal protocols are mostly reserved for contingency plans. It's very formalized with all the details. As far as I know, it's under review. I believe that colleagues in the crisis centres are reviewing the national nuclear and radiological emergency plan. As for the dialogue between Electrabel and the Agency, I have contacts, which I will not describe as frequent, but at the request of the municipal authorities both in the city of Huy and in the city of Beveren, thus Doel. At their request, either I or other members of the Agency prepare speeches for the public. We are quite open to suggestions, but I leave it to the local authorities to contact us if necessary. It is the operator who contacts them to explain the situation in the plants. As far as the preparation of local authorities for events is concerned, it is within the framework of the contingency plan that it is taken into account. The crisis center is piloting this kind of thinking. With this, Mr President, I have gone over the list of questions. If there are any other questions, I will be happy to answer them.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-08-19-54-commissie-ic229x.u25	Are there any other fellow Members who have questions or reservations? Mr Vande Lanotte has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-08-19-54-commissie-ic229x.u26	Thank you, Mr Bens, for your explanations and specifications. I note that you yourself say that this is an exceptional situation. This is an important issue: the fact that you say that this is an exceptional situation that so many incidents have followed each other. You use the terms "satisfaction" and "lactity." I read that you have drawn up an action plan to improve the situation in Tihange. Isn't that right? You are now discussing the implementation of that action plan with Electrabel. How long do you think this action plan will take? I am asking for this with a specific purpose: I cannot imagine that, until that action plan has been effectively implemented, extensions will be allowed elsewhere. It was said that the company failed in terms of training and training and in terms of sharpness of reactions. There is an action plan to counter that. Okay, well, that could happen in any company. However, as long as the action plan is not completed effectively, it is difficult to say to the same company that it can still take matters into account. That's my opinion. So I would like to know how long you think this action plan will last. You have also said that the Swiss have not been in the process for very long. They are now also thinking about their production. Allow me to find that a little strange. Well, that's a very big coincidence, isn't it? There are only a few countries that have tested it, and the first to test it, the same problem is found. There are not many countries that have responded to our recommendations for testing. That's what I understand. Many countries, including the United States, have not done so, if I understand correctly. How long do you think it will take for the Swiss authorities to clarify this? Did anyone say anything about that? That is a question mark that lingers throughout the file. I would have liked more information on the timing of these two specific issues, because I believe that this is important for decisions that will be taken in our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-08-19-54-commissie-ic229x.u27	You're saying, Mr. Bens, that you're going to see if there's an increase or not in the number of incidents. I'm just a little surprised that the Agency is not able to say whether or not there is an increase. That it does not have the exact number, I can understand it beyond the incidents that are recorded, but that you are not in a position today to say something other than simply "we'll see if there's an increase or not", is a question to me. I take note of the fact that you are going to check. I therefore ask you to forward to the committee as soon as possible the results of this evaluation work so that we can know whether or not, in a curve on the power stations and for each of them, there is an overall increase or not in the number of incidents. As for the list of measures taken, there are in fact two measures: the withdrawal of the licence for four persons and a request for an analysis of the event. I remain particularly dubious with regard to this type of measure. Of course, it's a minimum. It's necessary. Who would think they could restart these plants without having, at least, decided on these two dimensions? Compared to the fines, at some point, you say that you only have one decision left to make, that is to shut down the company. A little later, you correct a little by saying that there may also be the possibility of fines but that is not your policy too much. At some point, when opposite the only thing that matters is profitability, the fine can also help. I asked you the question, but you didn't answer it. Is there not clearly a loss of the culture of security and safety with the multiplication of these incidents, an exceptional situation never encountered, in any case in your memory? Shouldn't the fine have already been set? Personally, I think so. You're a little humorous about the communication deadline by saying you're not on Twitter. I don't have a problem with that. However, let's be serious, if we look at the exact dates, for the incident of July 14, 2015, we had to wait 16 days. Mr Bens, on that day, did you also have a computer failure? As for the so-called "Wednesday 25 July" incident, I still do not know whether it took place on the 25th or 27th of July, as mentioned on your slide and whether it was a Tuesday or a Saturday. We didn't get an answer. It was published on August 6, 2015, minimum 12 days! In your answer, you say it's normal for it to take two or three days. There is no question here of two or three days! We're talking 16 days and 12 days. Between Twitter, immediacy, what we can understand, and a 16-day delay, I would like more explanations. It's a little too easy to say you're not on Twitter. What is your explanation for these 16 days rather than 2 or 3 days? Unless I am mistaken, the last incident - which occurred on August 14th - is still not recorded on your site. However, power stations are at a standstill. Does that seem normal to you? We're talking about it everywhere, but since you're not on Twitter, it's not on your site... But this incident stopped this plant. It may not be serious in terms of safety and security, it may be technical and not human, it may have nothing to do with what you sent to the Huy Prosecutor's Office. All right! Nevertheless, let me tell you that your communication policy in this area has something to question, at least, the people who live in the surrounding area. For me, it's up to you to learn that Electrabel has submitted a first version of the safety case, while the experts you gathered in April have still not made their conclusions on the method to be used to produce a safety case. You have to explain it to me. I don't understand how things should go, and in what order. Is it logical for the Agency to analyse a safety case report provided by an operator, while the methodology has not yet been approved? You explained from the beginning that we were working in two stages: first, approval of the methodology, and then application of it. It is learned that the experts have still not agreed on the wording of the report. E-mails are circulating between them in this regard. This means that no methodology has yet been approved. At the same time, the safety case is already being analysed by the Agency, which has organised technical meetings. If that is not the demonstration that you agree to be pressured on the calendar to have your Christmas holidays, but above all to respond to the wishes of Electrabel and perhaps even the government in terms of supply, you could not have done worse! Frankly, if we are not told today that compliance with the timetable is first and foremost that of the stages - the approval of the methodology and then its application - then that is to question everything that has been said so far. On MOX, I hear you don't think there's a possible connection. I did not say that they were the only three plants concerned: Beznau, Doel 3 and Tihange 2. There are, of course, still others. But among all the plants where cracks or similar problems have been identified (i.e., even if it's not in the same place, it's still cracks), these three used MOX. Has the discovery of the situation in Switzerland, and particularly the use of MOX, made it possible that, beyond your beliefs, you have verified more concretely than was imagined at the point of departure that hypothesis? Indeed, this is a clearer element than having resorted to RDM, the Dutch company that has now disappeared, since the Swiss did not resort to that company. I'm staying with a lot of questions. I'm still waiting for clarification from you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-08-19-54-commissie-ic229x.u28	Mr Bens, I think you will be able to clarify what you have just said about the crack reactors and the route to be followed. The comments made by Mr Nollet are also mine. I have always understood that the international experts had to validate the method and methodology first, after which Electrabel would put his homework on the table. If I have understood you correctly, you have now said that Electrabel has already put his homework on the table, while there is no agreement yet on the methodology within the group of international experts. I would like to invite you to clarify that point. I think that is fundamental and sensitive enough. Secondly, you say that you leave the comments of Electrabel and Mrs Marghem on their behalf. Then I invite the majority of my fellow Members to take a good look at their journey over the last few months. I am not just talking about extending the lifetime of Objectives 1 and 2 as Electrabel plants. Today we see that there is complacency, nonchalance and a lack of safety culture in the workplace among operators. Just before the summer, you told those people that they are the future in terms of Belgian energy supply for the coming years. At the moment when you come home with a speculative tax of EUR 28 million, Mrs Dierick, just like those people who give a multiple tax discount, it is quite a punishment. I would therefore like to invite the majority to review its attitude towards the operator in detail. Thirdly, the administrative fine. It is my belief that this is the only language Electrabel speaks. You also confirm that it belongs to your arsenal of instruments to issue such a fine. I would ask, Mr Bens, if this is possible, what should we do in the nuclear sector to get a fine if that is not enough? If one does not behave in traffic, one gets a fine. While the majority does not fear any gas fines for minors, the insecurity in the nuclear sector is not being addressed. I don't understand. Why is that instrument not being used today? Why is there no administrative fine today? These are three questions I would have liked to ask. There is also an invitation to the majority of my fellow Members. I would also like to appeal to you, Mr Bens, to use the existing instruments. I believe that an administrative fine would be very logical.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-08-19-54-commissie-ic229x.u29	The action plan referred to above shall be drawn up. I have not yet seen a final version of it, nor any timing, but it is clear that there will be short-term and long-term actions. It is therefore not a single action plan within a single deadline. I don't see why there would be a link to the long-term exploitation. We have clearly stated what the conditions for long-term exploitation are for us. In fact, it is not impossible for us to get a green light on one file and a red light on the other. These things are separate from each other. As far as Switzerland is concerned, a number of other plants have been tested, mainly in Europe. Power stations were tested in Sweden and the Netherlands. A number of Swiss plants were also investigated. Nothing was seen in that, but it's not like we just looked at those three. It's a little bit wider than that. The timing is not yet clear for the Swiss either. They're still looking at how they're gonna do it. They mainly came to us to get details of our approach, for which we received international compliments. They will apply a similar approach. How long that's gonna take, I really can't say. Mr. Nollet asked whether there was an increase in the number of events. When I look at the events of the past, especially the INES 1 that are...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-08-19-54-commissie-ic229x.u30	I wasn't talking about INES 1, I was talking about events that were not actually recorded! To complete the information in relation to INES 1. An exhaustive list is not available.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-08-19-54-commissie-ic229x.u31	That's right.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-08-19-54-commissie-ic229x.u32	The INES 1, we can perform the calculation. We have the data.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-08-19-54-commissie-ic229x.u33	For others, we have not yet completed the full exercise. It's a matter of feeling. The on-site inspectors reported that there was an increase and that more attention should be paid to it. There was an increase but not on the basis of statistics or graphs but in situ. As far as the deadline for communication is concerned, we are doing our best in a busy period. With regard to Doel 3 and Tihange 2, the experts gave us their oral conclusions. On this basis, the Agency has decided to approve the methodology. What remains to be done is the finalization of the text of their report. On this basis, Electrabel began to make its calculations in the current version of the safety case.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-08-19-54-commissie-ic229x.u34	I'd like to be sure to understand. You approved the methodology
ParlaMint-BE_2015-08-19-54-commissie-ic229x.u35	Right.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-08-19-54-commissie-ic229x.u36	While you are not yet aware of the experts' report.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-08-19-54-commissie-ic229x.u37	We have read their conclusions orally.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-08-19-54-commissie-ic229x.u38	That's not possible! You have an oral knowledge of the experts' report! But I'd like to know her too!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-08-19-54-commissie-ic229x.u39	The experts told us that the methodology...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-08-19-54-commissie-ic229x.u40	They are still discussing the content but you already have an oral knowledge of the report and you have already made a decision on the methodology! Is this a serious case or something?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-08-19-54-commissie-ic229x.u41	Questions have been asked and Mr Bens is now answering. We're not gonna argue with each other, Mr Dierick and Mr Calvo. Mr Bens has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-08-19-54-commissie-ic229x.u42	The experts told us what their key conclusions were. For the time being, they are still discussing the formulation of the report. Based on this, Electrabel began the calculations of the second phase and submitted a version of the safety box that our experts are now reviewing. If things change again, we'll change again.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-08-19-54-commissie-ic229x.u43	Yes, you will arrange as you please. Before, after, it doesn't matter! Frankly, it's amazing!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-08-19-54-commissie-ic229x.u44	Mr. Chairman, I note...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-08-19-54-commissie-ic229x.u45	No, Mr Calvo. We leave Mr Bens to the floor until he has answered the questions and we can do a two or a third round. I don't care. There are still people who have asked for the floor. Mr Bens will now give the answers he wishes to give.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-08-19-54-commissie-ic229x.u46	Mr President, I repeat that we have received confirmation from the experts that the methodology is good for them and that they are still finishing their report. On the basis of that communication, we also told Electrabel that it could continue with that methodology. Then Electrabel made up his safety case, of which we are now looking at a first version. Let me deal with the MOX problem, but I do not have all the files on hand here. Mr Nollet, you have already asked parliamentary questions on the matter of MOX, which have been answered.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-08-19-54-commissie-ic229x.u47	Yes, answers were given but before the cracks were discovered in Switzerland. My question is related to the fact that, when cracks are discovered in Switzerland and when it is seen that MOX is also used in this plant, is it not necessary to carry out a more in-depth and specific work on MOX before delivering safety boxes, before submitting the methodology report?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-08-19-54-commissie-ic229x.u48	The conclusions in these first questions were that MOX has no influence. The same conclusion may apply to Swiss power plants. The fines are in our arsenal, but we have considered that fines are not the best way to improve the case. The measures we have now imposed, as it turns out so far and as I have seen this morning, are effective. That is why we are now dealing with these enforcement measures.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-08-19-54-commissie-ic229x.u49	Mr President, this is a piece of documentation for our committee. Mr Bens referred to the two documents of 3 August 2015, namely the pro justitia and the decree. I wonder whether the committee should not be able to take notice of it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-08-19-54-commissie-ic229x.u50	As far as pro justitia is concerned, it is a legal document which is subject to the secrecy of the investigation. It cannot therefore be transmitted. He has to stay between the Agency inspector and the Public Prosecutor's Office. On the other hand, I can send you the Agency's order without problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-08-19-54-commissie-ic229x.u51	Mr President, I do not think we have the figures for the number of incidents yet. The figures in category 1 are available and those in category 0 are not yet available. May I ask Mr Bens to hand over the figures from 2004 to today on step 0 and step 1 to the President and then to the Members. He reports he doesn't have them. That is not a problem, but I think it is essential that we get the information on the evolution of the incidents from 2004 to 2015. Can you use the administrative fine if a pv is made up for the parquet? There's some uncertainty about that. At first I had the impression that I didn't, then I did. In some situations, we cannot impose an administrative fine before the public prosecutor has granted you permission. In other cases, it isn't. In this case, if you make a pv to the parquet, you can't do it anymore. I would like to know what this is about. In your first intervention, you said that we should wait for the public prosecutor's office. In your second, you say you didn't think it was appropriate yourself. There's a difference, isn't there? My third question will be put calmly. In a dossier as sensitive as that of the cracks on the basis of an oral report, giving the opinion on how to proceed is really unacceptable. You can't do that. You know that file is so important. We've been working on it for years. There must be a report here that is available to everyone and on which one can base. You will then say that you will ask to change the report if the situation changes. That's careless. This isn't about small things. This is a dossier that has been going on for two years. You will request a report from experts who will tell you that they will provide you with a report later. You can't do that. In this case, a written report is absolutely necessary, not an oral appointment. That's way out of my league.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-08-19-54-commissie-ic229x.u52	I have one comment to make in the same atmosphere. First we discover that appointments and pathways around those cracks are not fully followed. That's always been your story here in the subcommittee. The international experts will follow all this, with their opinions, their green light, their steps, and only then will the next steps come. That's what you're doing today. In an attempt to clarify, you say that we are working with oral explanations, we have been told orally that it is okay. You just said that you're working seriously, that you're not on Twitter, that you're communicating in a good and well-founded way, in a formal way. However, today you come to say that in such an important dossier that this Parliament, this country and experts from the Netherlands and abroad have been engaged for more than two years, you are not working in a formal manner. The steps that need to be taken do not seem to be happening as you told this Parliament earlier. I have a special, very difficult time with that, Mr Bens.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-08-19-54-commissie-ic229x.u53	Mr President, excuse me for intervening in a somewhat untimely manner. Mr Bens' answer, frankly, I can't believe it! The Agency took a position on the methodology and accepted it on the basis of an oral report, which is neither accessible nor transparent, but which is also not definitive. You tell us that the experts are still discussing how to draft this report, while the Agency has already decided. Mr Bens, are you sure that what you have announced as a decision already taken and as a tempo to be observed respects the methodology you have put in place? Or did you depart from the procedure and steps that you yourself announced here? We talked about the experts from the International Board, but I wanted to know what was going on with the Oak report, the American research centre that also had to submit a report. Have you made your decision without it or will you soon have it? Have you received an oral version of the report? Are the company's researchers writing it? Do they discuss it with each other? Where are we? I just wanted to explain my speech. For the rest, you have feelings, you do your best. In any case, I still can't believe it! I assume we will be able to consult the oral report on your site in the coming days.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-08-19-54-commissie-ic229x.u54	Mr Vande Lanotte, you asked about INES incidents from 2004. I do not think we had all these formal reporting conditions in 2004. I think this was only introduced around 2009 or 2010. I'm gonna have to check that out. People are looking into that. There is also a learning process in the quality of reporting. In the beginning, that's less. It needs to stabilize. It's a little dangerous to draw some serious conclusions from that. Your comment on fine after pro-justitia is indeed a point that we look at with our lawyers. I also think that we should wait until the public prosecutor says that it will prosecute itself or that the agency will be given the freedom to impose repressive measures. If there is another offense, we can take a new path. Another element allowed by the law is the imposition of periodic penalty payments. That is not the issue here, but it is also a possibility in our arsenal of enforcement tools. I'd just like to point out the discussion. What's it about? Ultimately, the most important question is whether or not the power stations will start up. When that decision is taken, there will be complete files. That's very clear. That's the moment we're talking about. How we reach that stage, these are working rules that are in it. The worst thing that can happen is that Electrabel has worked for nothing. To be honest, that doesn't wake me up. If it turns out that these international experts suddenly change their minds and think that Electrabel should follow a different methodology, then indeed useless work has been done, but that will in no way have an impact on the final decision. This will be done on the basis of all the files that will be made public. As for your question about the Oak Ridge National Laboratory, they just started their study. We had some legal problems placing an order with an American public authority. It's settled. They'll start their study in the next few days. They'll need a few months.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-08-19-54-commissie-ic229x.u55	Mr President, I have one last question, but I will be very brief. Mr Bens, we have already spoken together about the problem of cracks ten times in the last two years. Last time I asked you a very clear question. I'll put it to you today. What is your deep conviction of the future of these two reactors? Personally, I am convinced that it will not be shown that they can be restarted satisfactorily. Are we not losing money and time trying to prove otherwise? It lasts far too long, admit it. Without wishing to argue about the elements put forward by my colleagues in Sp.a and Ecolo-Groen, I am really not optimistic. Which technician will imagine, without even being an engineer, being able to demonstrate that one can restart without problems with additional cracks and with such a delay of analysis? What is your conviction?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-08-19-54-commissie-ic229x.u56	Mr President, I would like to make one more point. Does this mean that the American study you say will be ready in a few months' time should be ready for a decision on reopening? I'm assuming it should be on paper first. There has been talk of thorough opinions. We have always said that once the life span of Objectives 1 and 2 has been extended, it will be possible, by miracle, to reopen the other two plants. We said this a few months ago, and we will probably see it in November. This also means that the lifetime extension of Objectives 1 and 2 was not necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-08-19-54-commissie-ic229x.u57	My close conviction doesn't matter. I wanted to build on the technical results. I'm not going to say anything about that. Mr Vande Lanotte, the answer to your question on the Oak Ridge report is quite clear. That report has to be there. We have asked those people to have the entire file checked completely independently by other people and to see if they can support the conclusions and whether there are any gaps in them. So we have asked other people to rewrite everything, including the calculations. I want a yes from them before I give permission. The remark about the band with Objectives 1 and 2 is on you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-08-19-54-commissie-ic229x.u58	I would like to come back to the classification of incidents in categories such as INES 1 and INES 0. The good practices published on this subject explicitly state that one should not actually use them to make comparisons, because that is not possible. Moreover, these good practices are apparently also regularly adapted. I think the latest version dates back to 2008. Do I understand that an INES 1 from before 2008 is not comparable to an INES 1 from after 2008 and that this whole reporting exercise does not make great sense? Or do I misunderstand?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-08-19-54-commissie-ic229x.u59	I think you are making very pertinent remarks about the methodology, which is being modified. The reporting criteria change and they are also defined differently and applied differently in different countries. Comparisons between them are therefore very difficult. We must therefore be very careful to draw conclusions from this.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-08-19-54-commissie-ic229x.u60	This is a question to which Mr Bens has not yet answered, I think, on the precise date of the incident: 25th, 27th? Or are these two different incidents?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-08-19-54-commissie-ic229x.u61	I don't know by heart.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-08-19-54-commissie-ic229x.u62	So, you'll give the answer later...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-08-19-54-commissie-ic229x.u63	Okay...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-08-19-54-commissie-ic229x.u64	I thank Mr Bens. Mr Bens, I have noted that you will provide us with some information on the number of incidents and the FANC decision. I hope you can get us this as soon as possible. Two proposals were made by my fellow Members. First of all, Electrabel hears about the incidents. May I assume that this proposal is supported by my fellow Members? [[Assent]] Has the plan of action been transferred to them yet, Mr Bens? [[Mr Bens shakes the head of no.]] When do you think they will receive this? Maybe we should ask them for their response to that?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-08-19-54-commissie-ic229x.u65	I don't know by heart. I think they will want this approved by a number of people from their hierarchy who are still on holiday. I think the end of this month might not be feasible. In the middle of September, I think it would be more reasonable.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-08-19-54-commissie-ic229x.u66	Is the middle of September okay for the colleagues to invite Electrabel? The second suggestion made is to evaluate the plan of action on a regular basis. I propose to do this every three months at the end of October, beginning of November and then February and May. These dates can be recorded in the near future so that they can be delivered to the committee members.
