ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic097x.u1	Much has happened since the submission of our question. I notice that all parties are interested in the subject. A few weeks ago, we discussed a lot of questions in our committee about Facebook and the extensive privacy rules. There was the hearing with the privacy committee. You said at the first time that you were mainly looking at Europe to solve the problem together. I think that is a good thing. We were wondering whether something should also happen in our Belgian state. We have then heard the privacy committee, which also draws the map of Europe. She did say Facebook had to comply with Belgian law. You then announced that you would have a conversation with Facebook. I read in the media that this has happened in the meantime. You told me a few things about that. Can you tell me more about the content of that conversation? How's it going now?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic097x.u2	Mr Secretary of State, huge steps have been taken since the start of the debate in our committee. Several Members here have already raised the issue with you. You yourself suggested inviting the privacy committee. Parliament has done the same. That was very enlightening. I am very pleased that you have taken further initiatives and are following up on the matter. Facebook has responded positively, in the sense that the company has entered into a conversation. What is the outcome of this consultation? We read about it in the press. We'd rather hear it firsthand. How'd that meeting go? Have any engagements been made? Have any follow-up arrangements been made? What are the further consequences at European level? In the first answers to the various questions on Facebook, you also said that a coordinated European approach is advisable. Moreover, the various privacy authorities would have met at the beginning of February. Then what's the sequel? What initiatives are being taken there?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic097x.u3	With this question, which we have submitted with a number of committee members, we wish to follow up your announced conversation with Facebook. We've already read about it in the press. We would have liked to have heard from you some more details. How exactly did the consultation work? Was that a meeting between you and Facebook or between you, the privacy committee and Facebook? Were there any other parties involved? After all, it is not just about privacy but also about consumer affairs. During the most recent hearing with the privacy committee, a paper concluded that Facebook did not comply with consumer law. Are we talking about joint action, not only by the various privacy authorities at European level, but also by your colleague Mr Peeters? We would have liked to have gotten a little more detail.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic097x.u4	We're talking about the subject we're talking about on a regular basis. I won't say it's about suffering. In any case, we have already made a whole journey together to wake you up. When we asked you our first questions, you transferred the file to the privacy committee, because you didn't want to play Don Quixote against Facebook, as you put it. We did invite the privacy committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic097x.u5	You can't quote me halfway. I said I'd be David against Goliath, but not Don Quixote.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic097x.u6	I'll keep that in mind. So you transfer the hot potato to the privacy committee. Frankly, we also had to pull and drag, before the chairman of the privacy committee said there was a problem with privacy law. When that had happened, you returned to the stage, Mr Secretary of State, and said that you would attack, if necessary legally. I thought you left. Consultations with Facebook took place on 18 February. According to newspaper reports, Facebook would have denied that the user data would be passed on to third parties, which they could use for advertising purposes. Facebook would have said that; I do not know if that is true, because I was not present at the meeting. You will be able to confirm or deny that. After the maintenance you also made it seem that you did not want to take direct action against Facebook, but to work together with the company on a solution. David disappeared immediately. Apparently, the privacy committee feels differently about this. According to her, there is an infringement of the law. Do you still believe that Facebook's new terms of use are a breach of Belgian law or have you begun to doubt after talking to Facebook? If so, on what points? Is it just the privacy law or is there more to it? It may not be your jurisdiction, but there may have been problems with copyright and consumer protection? If no, what have you changed your mind? What steps do you intend to take next? What should we understand by your statement that you prefer the fight to preserve privacy with Facebook rather than against them? I don't understand that very well. Where is the European approach to the problem? What are the results of the meetings with the other privacy committees of the European Union?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic097x.u7	I shall first reply to Mr Dedecker's question on consumer legislation. I did indeed ask the Minister for Consumers, Mr Peeters, to consider the extent to which certain issues would be contrary to consumer law. Indeed, I do not have the authority to do so. For the sake of clarity, if one goes into the dossier a little more closely, one finds that it is not Germany, but the Land of Hamburg, which was a bit more punishing than the rest. Your pronunciation "Belgium should be a little more Germany', so you should already change to "Belgium'. In the beginning it was already clear to me that a number of things had to be looked at. Ladies and gentlemen, for the record, I am not in charge of the privacy committee, you are in charge of that. That is also one of the reasons why I suggested that you hear the privacy committee for yourself. I can ask questions to the privacy committee and I can make suggestions, but I can't give orders to the privacy committee. I honestly admit that I myself asked the privacy committee, as Secretary of State for Privacy, to investigate this matter in connection with Facebook and Snapchat. In the meantime, it has become clear that all this does not go from today to tomorrow. It is a rather complicated matter. By the way, it is the first time in our country that a specialised Secretary of State responsible for Privacy has been appointed, in addition to the privacy committee, which has always worked autonomously. In the past, as in most other countries of Europe, the power of privacy was with the Minister of Justice. In a meeting with my colleague Koen Geens I made the agreement that more attention will now be given to the domain of privacy and he is very satisfied with it. That is also possible now, because the power no longer belongs to a very difficult department such as the Justice Department, which also has a lot of other cats to fling. The reason for the whole discussion is Facebook's new user conditions, which, by the way, are a small extension of Facebook's current practices. It is not so terribly new, even though Parliament did not realize until later that something must be done, because we have reached a point of no return. The limit of the right of decision on our Facebook data has been reached and it must be made clear that we, even as a small country, do not allow everything. Even though I am liberal, the limit of what is allowed for the protection of privacy has been reached. Indeed, I have raised several concerns about the new user conditions in the media, and in December of last year, even before the questions were asked to me in Parliament, I officially asked the privacy committee to investigate the new user conditions on Facebook. The reason for this was the Netherlands, not Germany. I had indeed found that there was an investigation in the Netherlands and I asked the privacy committee to also examine to what extent the user conditions of Facebook are in accordance with Belgian law. Later, a consumer organisation in Hamburg lodged a complaint. The court then ruled that a German court was competent in this matter and not a court in Ireland, and that Facebook should be viewed as an American and not an Irish company. Important though is that I didn't request any maintenance with Facebook myself. I was still looking through the privacy committee at how things could be handled. I remember some Members expressing their doubts about whether a large international firm like Facebook would like to talk to the Secretary of State of a small country. If the company doesn't give answers to letters, what would it want to sit around the table with our country? To my great surprise, Facebook itself asked for a meeting and that took place last Wednesday. It was a meeting with the Brussels Managing Director, together with the responsible for Public Policy and the head of the Privacy Policy. It was about a Swede, a German and a Brit. The function of head of the Privacy Policy has been established very recently. He's responsible for the whole world, except for the United States and Canada. In my opinion, that is the sign that the company is feeling a certain amount of pressure. In other words, that man had only been employed for four weeks and had been assigned the privacy policy. It is therefore clear that the focus on privacy in Europe, especially in Brussels, cannot be ignored. I listened to what Facebook had to say about the company and the various services it provides. I've asked several questions about the practice. We have also discussed the various investments and the current issue. It was a very constructive conversation, I must say. Mr Van Hecke, the press releases always state that there is no cooperation, but I note that I work well with Koen Geens, Kris Peeters, Elke Sleurs and even with my predecessor John Crombez. Then why shouldn't I have good cooperation with Facebook? I also work well with the members of the MR, with Mrs Marghem, with Mrs Galant. I always have a very good cooperation with my fellow Members in my areas of competence, because I am not a man seeking the controversy and the war. I've even had to correct a few times that I'm not fighting Facebook. I would like to point out to Facebook that a number of things do not comply with our legislation and that the company must adapt to the legislation. I must also say this to other organisations that do not respect the legislation. The same applies to Facebook. It is of course a large international company with 1.4 billion active users and over 5 million active users in Belgium. The biggest problem is that Facebook never has a face in the media, unless Mr Zuckerberg, who lives in California and who apparently is very much in favour of his privacy, if I may believe the newspapers. I have said what were the most important points of concern for us, also taking into account the call for more courage, Mr Van Hecke. Firstly, there was a lack of clarity on the objectives of the processing and on the entities with whom the data will be shared. The lack of clarity is unmistakable. I also drew the attention of the representatives to the practice in which all photocopiers and videocopiers of users for non-commercial purposes could be used by Facebook. It has been said that this is not the intention. The public and the press have already made such a statement: what they put on Facebook can suddenly be seen hanging in the streets in Spain or America in an advertisement for Marie Jo. I think they tried to convince consumers that they would use their photos to see them appear in cinema, in newspaper kiosks. I have been confirmed that this is not the intention. Of course I do have questions about the fact that when someone likes me, they show them to who is still connected via Facebook or even not. I also raised the user's lack of informed consent to data processing. Well, that has to do with privacy, doesn't it? I have been answered to be prepared to take this into account and, in consultation with us, to provide more information and transparency on the changed user conditions. I also said immediately that I did not want to engage in heavy negotiations or discuss technical matters: that is the task of the privacy committee. It is currently conducting a number of investigations. We had jointly ordered a study, which was announced in the meantime. It wasn't my job to negotiate with Facebook. I have to draw up the policy and set out some guidelines, but it is the privacy committee that is investigating a number of issues with colleagues from other European countries with which they are currently sitting together. The company also pointed out to me that there were many misunderstandings about the user conditions introduced at the end of January. It has been stressed that some misunderstandings have arisen in the company's attempt to clarify pre-existing user conditions. Thorough changes were not made according to the spokespersons and Facebook even denies categoric user data by playing to third parties that they could use for advertising purposes. I have already said that, according to the representatives of Facebook, it is a misunderstanding that photocopiers of users will appear in advertising messages; only the profile picture will be used. I said, of course, that we will check and verify everything. I have been proposed to clarify these points. I will, of course, look carefully at what is being delivered to the privacy committee and to me. I have also asked for additional analyses to ensure that users' rights are respected very closely. I went overboard for a moment and became Secretary of State for better communication, Mr Van Hecke. I haven't been able to hold back. You know I'm not a lawyer, like you; I'm a communication scientist. I asked Facebook that she would pay more attention to her communication, that she would pay more respect and would invest more in her educational and pedagogical role. In our society many young people use Facebook, but also many people in a weaker position, who are not as powerful as you or me. Several people in our society are not so mature and cannot always assess the consequences. That's not condescending. However, I have said that Facebook, as an international firm, has a role to play in this area too. I can understand that Facebook suffers from growing pains, especially when we look at that company's growth process. Facebook has started not so long ago and is currently one of the largest social media companies in the world, with 1.4 billion active users. I can imagine that this company still has some work ahead of it in a number of areas, for example on the deontological obligations as a company and in the area of clear communication with customers. So I asked to take into account young people and socially vulnerable groups. Allow me to clarify the further steps now. Facebook has promised to respond to the comprehensive questionnaire sent by our Belgian privacy committee. Secondly, in the short term Facebook will also consult with our Belgian privacy committee. I stick to my point, from day one, that it makes little sense to act as an individual country or as an individual privacy committee against Facebook. As in other cases, such as security or PNR data, I continue to advocate a stronger European approach to this issue. We're not sitting here with Facebook on an island. Perhaps our country is an interesting country with its different languages and profiles, so that our country can have a laboratory function. That goes for several things in the advertising world, but we don't live on an island. The problems we know about young people, the socially weak and communication with citizens will also exist in other European countries. If that is not possible with 28 Member States, I will effectively choose to join forces with those countries that are also alert to the problem today. These are the Netherlands, Germany and, in particular, Hamburg and France. It is therefore important that we try to have bilateral, trilateral or multilateral contacts on this point. A coordination working group has been set up at European level. The Netherlands is the leader of this. At the beginning of my speech, I noted that the Netherlands, and not Germany, Mr Dedecker, had the first flashing lights on me. Even at that time, I have already asked the privacy committee to look into the problems. Together we will try to draw up the common points of pain or a list of infringements. Facebook itself has indicated that it prefers that. It makes little sense for the company to conduct such interviews individually with each country when there are a number of common problems. Facebook would therefore prefer this to happen at European level. At the European Summit in Riga, as well as at the European Summit in Brussels, I have already advocated a strong democratic privacy watchdog, namely a Data Protection Board in Europe, which can deal with such matters. This will enable the 28 countries to adopt a common position as far as possible. Of course, this does not alter the fact that I consider the national privacy committees competent for their own data. The privacy laws are still not European and still contain national privacy laws. Of course, we have somewhat outdated legislation from the year 1991. We will also have a great deal of work together in this area in the coming period. We will therefore take a common position and we will draw up a joint list of infringements as a basis for any additional action at national level. We have done the same with Google and have achieved results. We now notice that France and Germany are already participating. These are two very important countries within Europe that are participating. I repeat, if Facebook fails to take adequate steps... I'm not an opponent of social media. I am absolutely in favour of it. They offer incredible opportunities. I always like to tell you that my 81-year-old father communicates with his children, grandchildren, acquaintances and his sister, who doesn't live in the same city, through that social media channel. For him, social media is an incredible advance in his life. After all, people like him should no longer wait in isolation for someone to visit them. They can also have contacts in a digital way and through that wonderful instrument. Our Prime Minister, Charles Michel, has asked the people of Facebook to do a number of things, for example to ensure that we work together in the fight against extremism, jihadism and religious fanaticism, naturally within the limits of privacy. This does not mean, therefore, that we want to fight against a company, but rather that we must remind a company of its obligations and that it must comply with the legislation, both at Belgian and European level. Whether it's Facebook, a bank, an insurance company, a transport company or an airline, I don't care. To me, Facebook is a company. I would like to warn people about this: a lot of people think that Facebook is nice to have, something that one can engage in and which one can trust all his life. However, one does not consider that Facebook is a company that employs thousands of people and wants to make a profit. Is that wrong? No, but I do think that people should be more aware of this and that they should be more careful about it. Facebook must also play its role there and make it clear to people that it is a company and not a unique, pleasant pastime. If they do not respect both European and our own national privacy regulations, court proceedings are not excluded. I won't start with that. If I'm having a discussion with my neighbor, who I never have, because I'm an excellent neighbor and I'm not much at home either, then I try to solve the problem first with each other instead of going straight to court. If the hedge is too high or the trees overgrown, I politely ask him if he can find a solution. If necessary, I'll help him cut the tree. It is only if there is no solution to the problems that legal action is taken. If we then take that step, I am still convinced that we are best able to do so together with other countries and not alone. I therefore give priority to cooperation and consultation. You may hunt me down, Mr Van Hecke, but you will not succeed in that. By the way, I have not limited myself to Facebook. I've asked the privacy committee to take a look at WhatsApp as well. I am still waiting for the results. WhatsApp and Instagram are sub-contracts of Facebook, they are equally part of this discussion. They're branches of Facebook. I'm closing up. I think it's better in the interests of privacy to fight with Facebook than to fight Facebook. It is of course politically and mediaically nice to hear that Tommelein is going to fight Mark Zuckerberg and see who gets first on his nose, but I'm not going to. I'm gonna try to get results together with the people of Facebook. Google has already proven that it can. Google has already made agreements in France, Spain and Italy. The arrangement now agreed with these countries is in principle even being rolled out in all European countries. In other words, we can even be a pioneer. If we succeed in convincing Facebook to comply with the law, then we have been a pioneer. Then it is certainly a fact that you have contributed to this. Thank you for that. I will continue to act with the same amount of courage in the future, Mr Van Hecke and Mrs Jiroflée.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic097x.u8	In any case, Mr Secretary of State, I would like to thank you for your very comprehensive answer and for your openness to the way in which you prefer to deal with this issue. Of course, I am not surprised that Facebook prefers to talk with Europe or a number of countries. That way, they'll only have to make an effort once. In this way, however, the individuality of each country is also at risk of being lost. I can imagine that they would prefer that. The question is, of course, what Belgium wants. I hear you saying you want to keep working on the two fronts. I'm willing to believe that. However, I do miss the timing. When will Europe or will the four countries you mentioned take action? When will these conversations start? When will the size be full for you? If all this doesn't help, you'll definitely consider court proceedings. So I'd like to know how far you think they can go. I simply advocate that we keep a very close eye on the fact that our national legislation is being respected, preferably as soon as possible. This is crucial.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic097x.u9	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your reply. You started by answering my question about cooperation with your colleague, Deputy Prime Minister Kris Peeters. I have also submitted that question to him, but it still needs to be answered. I wonder what will happen and what will happen. After all, this is not a new file. It has existed for several years in a number of other European countries. I am curious to see what the Belgian governments, both the present and the previous ones, have done with this. What has your predecessor, Johan Vande Lanotte, done under his competence in consumer protection? I have also asked for consultations with a number of consumer organisations. I can't wait to see what's gonna come out of it. In Germany, a consumer organisation set a good example and in Belgium, too, a proactive approach by consumer organisations should be allowed. It shouldn't be a fight against Facebook, it should be a fight for our privacy. That's very important. Mr Van Hecke, you are asking more about a fight against a company. I think that is a very dangerous argument. Sometimes we disagree. In my philosophy, there must be a tax, privacy or food safety control service in the first place so that companies and others respect the law. Their vision doesn't have to be to get someone right. There must be a proactive and helpful vision to ensure that the laws are respected. That's very important. If it is not possible, it must of course go well. That was and remains my call when I asked to be more like Germany. Apparently it's about Hamburg, but that doesn't bother me. You say that the Netherlands plays a leading role. That is strange, because these conditions do not apply in Germany. Indeed, Germany had to play a slightly less leading role now, because they did so before changing the conditions. It is the Netherlands that is now competing with the new conditions. Germany does not suffer from this anymore at the moment, because these new conditions...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic097x.u10	Mr. Dedecker, you're generalizing very quickly. It's just a couple of conditions. Not all conditions are appropriate.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic097x.u11	Part of it involves codification.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic097x.u12	You know that we are working on a new privacy regulation across Europe. Of course, you can expect me to tighten up the legislation very much and make it even heavier than in Germany. Then France can try to make them even stricter than Belgium. That's how we keep going, of course. I am aiming for a global European approach in which protection for all Facebook users, including in Europe, is the same. Then I'll be very satisfied.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic097x.u13	That is indeed a very important point, and I support you in that. But this seems to me to be the long-term story. Europe is not the fastest to achieve unanimity and cooperation. In the meantime, we must not allow ourselves to be done, which indeed is not happening. In the long term, this regulation is indeed the best sustainable solution. You also say that we need to work on awareness, that Facebook is a company and not a charity. I would also like to add that Facebook has become a very dominant player today, perhaps not in the sense that it has a strong dominant position as in the telecoms sector, but it has become almost impossible to escape it. Even though they are not members of Facebook themselves, they are followed on all kinds of other websites. It is an important tool to build your social life. Even in politics, one can hardly live without it. The fact that it's a company shouldn't be an excuse.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic097x.u14	Mr Secretary of State, I think you have outlined the situation correctly. In my opinion, it is very important for everyone's role to be clearly defined. You will receive a number of questions from Mr Van Hecke about your initial actions, but you have rightly said that the privacy committee should not enforce the rules. The Secretary of State determines the policies and rules, but it is the privacy committee that has to apply the existing privacy law and ensure its compliance. In the privacy committee there is a supervisory body. That control body must act policely if there are violations of the privacy law. That body is, moreover, under the supervision of the Chamber of Representatives. The suggestion made by the Secretary of State last time was right from the beginning: it is up to the Chamber to question the supervisory body and the privacy committee about progress in a particular file. You have taken a good initiative in your conversation with Facebook, Mr Secretary of State. There is already one important conclusion, which was not clear at the beginning, in particular that Belgian law is indeed applicable. In the end, there was nothing more to say in Germany than that they could apply their rules. That's all they've actually done. We are actually going far beyond many other countries by saying that Facebook must comply with Belgian law. We will discuss with the company exactly how this will be done in the best way, but we are actually clear. The privacy committee has been very clear in Parliament: the Belgian law applies and must be respected. I hope that the talks will continue constructively in the coming period. I have also heard about the initiatives at European level, but if they do not progress, this should not prejudice the fact that the Belgian law must be applied. My conclusion is therefore that it would be useful for the privacy committee and the supervisory body to be heard again in a future committee in the foreseeable future to check whether the questionnaire has been answered and what the privacy committee will do with it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic097x.u15	Mr Secretary of State, Facebook has made a number of commitments, including with regard to the informed consent. At the same time, Facebook also contests a number of cases that are being charged to it. It is important that you or the privacy committee............................................................................................................................................................................... We count on you and the privacy committee to do so. I also thought that you had sent a letter to Facebook asking for the terms to be postponed again, or that the privacy committee did. I assume Facebook has informed you that it will not. I haven't been notified that the terms are being postponed. In other words, what does a watchdog that barks and asks to postpone the terms on which Facebook refuses? That dog is crawling back in his basket. To be honest, I think that is a shared responsibility, which is very slow. We can now hide behind the intention to act together with Europe and draw up a list. In the meantime, however, the conditions apply and there are infringements of Belgian law, but nothing concrete is going to happen to stop it. As Secretary of State for Privacy, I expect you to perform with a wit. If there are any breaches, I expect you to perform. If we go on like this, we'll be nowhere by summer break.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic097x.u16	Mr President, I would still like to replicate.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic097x.u17	Short.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic097x.u18	I can't help but think there are so many questions. I would just like to say that, as far as timing is concerned, there are still discussions this week to see what needs to be done in the coming period. Yesterday they took place in Hamburg and tomorrow in Amsterdam or The Hague. Of course, it's not the intention to throw everything out on the street. I do not think it is appropriate that I should come here and explain every step of the negotiations with Facebook, Mr Van Hecke. This doesn't happen in a court of law either. We cannot, on the one hand, keep Facebook to our friend and, on the other hand, fight openly. A basis of trust must be created at some point. As far as Europe is concerned, Mr Dedecker, I believe that this may not be the fastest procedure, but I remain convinced that a global European approach offers the highest level of protection for the privacy of the measures taken. It's not going fast enough, but in the meantime, a Secretary of State is responsible for the Privacy for four months. It's hard for me to deploy the army, isn't it? Some of my colleagues can use the army if there's a problem, but I can't put the army against Facebook, Mr Van Hecke. I can only point out that the law must be respected.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic097x.u19	We have courts, too.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic097x.u20	They too will today make a number of statements in the fight against Facebook. A 300-page response has been received from Facebook to the privacy committee. I do not believe that the privacy committee has been able to handle 300 pages in an instant. It is mainly about the discussion of who is competent: the Irish Data Protection Authority or any other authority? In other words, this is legal to use the words of Jan Becaus............. cat piss................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic097x.u21	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, the debate on radicalisation and, above all, on how we can prevent and reverse this phenomenon has been going on for a long time. It had a highlight in the weeks after the terrible attacks in Paris, but it still, rightly, gets a lot of attention in politics and the media. It is very important in this debate to focus on the whole chain, from prevention to the fight against terrorism. It is equally important to ensure that basic citizens' rights are not violated or reduced, under the guise of an emergency or because the purpose justifies the means. In your capacity as Secretary of State, you play a very important role in this. Some time ago, I heard your Flemish colleagues Homans and Crevits talking about the possibility of watching young people, in order to detect possible signs of radicalisation in time. Social assistants and street corner workers, among others, should pay more attention to signs of radicalisation. Minister Homans also expressed his support for the lifting of the professional secrecy of social assistants in specific cases, which would not be legal for the cat either, but indicated that consultation with you, Secretary of State for the Privacy, would take place shortly. Has this consultation taken place in the meantime? If so, have you reached an agreement? Can you give us your vision of the delicate tension between identifying, for example, the radicalisation of individuals or groups, in this case young people, on the one hand, and the right to privacy and professional secrecy, on the other?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic097x.u22	Mr President, on 28 January 2015, Vice-President Homans and I had a brief discussion, an open and very exploratory discussion, in which we examined how best we can work together because we have a number of related areas of competence. Because of the exploratory nature of the conversation, there were not immediately apparent results, let alone that we came to an agreement in the specific case that you raised. The latter wasn't exactly the purpose of the conversation either. Of course, during this discussion, the issue of lifting the professional secrecy of social OCMW workers, OCMW council members and OCMW presidents was outlined. Mrs Homans referred to the bill she presented in the Senate at the time, which aimed at effectively combating welfare and residence fraud. In my turn, I referred to the initiative in my policy letter, which aims to organise a round table with the competent colleagues from the three regions with a view to improving the fight against fraud. Mrs Homans said she wants to participate in this round table. I will also ask her fellow Members from Brussels and Wallonia. Please note that this is not always an exclusive competence for social fraud, but also for combating poverty, for which Mr Sleurs is responsible, as well as for amending the Criminal Code, for which Mr None is competent, and, of course, for the OMCWs, which is both regional and local competence. The professional secrecy in the assistance indirectly protects the client's privacy. That should be handled with caution, I admit. In fact, professional secrecy is an obligation on the part of the aid provider, but at the same time it is a trust instrument that often allows a person to take the step he is looking for or needs. There are, of course, exceptions to professional secrecy, in the event of a state of emergency or in the event of absence of guilty aid, although they are limited. The privacy law also provides for special protection of sensitive personal data, such as racial or ethnic origin, political or religious beliefs, in short, precisely those that are useful in the fight against radicalisation. With regard to the relationship between signaling radicalisation and privacy, I believe that we should weigh our fundamental rights strictly against each other. The right to privacy must not be an absolute right. The task of the government to protect citizens should not necessarily be at the expense of the freedoms of those same citizens. In concrete terms, any measure likely to involve interference in the private life of citizens must comply with the principles of privacy law, which serve a specific purpose, the restriction of private life must be strictly necessary in order to achieve that objective and its implementation must be proportionate. Moreover, the measure must be accompanied by the necessary legal guarantees for citizens, including in the light of constitutional and international obligations. I would remind you that privacy is an important item at European level. We have already had a discussion on this subject. Europe is also monitoring these matters within its competence. All this shows that we must be careful about the restrictions we impose on the right to privacy. With regard to the reporting of radicalisation in relation to professional secrecy, I refer to the 2010 law on the special intelligence methods, the so-called BIM law, and to the 1998 law regulating the intelligence and security services. Those laws are the responsibility of my good colleague, Mr Geens, Minister of Justice. The legislator is of the opinion that all public services should cooperate if our intelligence services so request. This is stated in Article 40 of the Law of 30 November 1998. Staff members must violate their professional secrecy under that legislation by providing information when requested by the intelligence service, but they should continue to be able to play their role as trusted persons. I therefore believe that the information is better provided under strict conditions, taking into account the relationship of trust and the principle of professional secrecy. The Security of the State operates within legal frameworks, in which the professional secrecy, the source protection, the classification of the information and the protection of privacy are anchored. I believe that we should therefore continue to involve the cabinet of the Minister of Justice in the discussions that we are going to hold on this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic097x.u23	Mr Secretary of State, I understand that we share the concerns of dealing very carefully with such matters, of course in compliance with the law. We also count on you as the guardian of privacy and of the relevant legal provisions. Furthermore, I can only support you if you say that professional secrecy exists precisely in order to continue to be able to reach and guide people. It is therefore very important to deal with this very carefully. I look forward to the further results of the round table that will take place. I am counting on you, as I said, to act very carefully on this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic097x.u24	Mr President, Minister, I would like to hear your opinion on a proposal from your colleague, Secretary of State Mr Franken, who, referring to the issue of a residence permit to imams preaching Salafism, proposed that the examination of the permit procedure should no longer be the competence of the State Security but of the OCAM, in any case for screening of imams originating in Qatar and Saudi Arabia. I wanted to know your opinion because you are directly concerned. What would justify the fact that State Security was no longer directly involved in the matter? Have there been any failures? Does State Security no longer have the means? Doesn't she do her job well? Why transfer this material from one organization to another? Is it a good idea to limit ourselves to imams from Qatar or Saudi Arabia alone? It is known that Salafism has spread and is not limited to imams from Qatar and Saudi Arabia. It is the profile of imams, their ideas, their inclinations, which are interesting and not only their geographical origin. How are things going at the international level? What procedures are used by other European countries, which we could use to improve our work in monitoring imams? I agree to go further in monitoring, but how can I be effective? Is it simply by changing the examination of residence permits according to geographical origin or is it due to work of a different scope?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic097x.u25	As I mentioned earlier, two weeks ago in response to the questions put by Mrs Temmerman, introducing a requirement for additional advice to the Coordinating Body for Threat Analysis (OCAM) is not obvious. The mission of the OCAM is to define the level of threat and is not intended to provide information that could be useful in the control of foreign imams. In response to your second question, let me briefly describe the framework within which State Security is exchanging information at the international level. There are many cooperation agreements within the intelligence community, both bilaterally and multilaterally. Given the specific nature of intelligence services related, inter alia, to the confidentiality of sources, the exchange of information occurs in most cases bilaterally. In practical terms, these contacts are carried out through operational meetings and analyses, and through the transmission of notes. State Security also has contacts with other intelligence services at the multilateral level. Even if there is no specific structure within the European Union in this area, there is a de facto European collaboration between intelligence services. Collaboration with other intelligence services is an essential method of gathering important information for the security of Belgium's vital interests. This collaboration is intense, frequent and fruitful. I can only encourage this international exchange of information as the Minister responsible for State Security. As for your fourth question, it goes without saying that the security and intelligence services follow certain countries known for their ideological discourse, in particular on the basis of the idea that people who may constitute a danger to the security of Belgium might find themselves there. The problem of radical foreign imams is complex and must, to a large extent, be considered at the international level. Indeed, imams are not only present in countries known for their extremist ideological discourse. From the intelligence point of view, it is therefore important to maintain a good exchange of information at the international level between intelligence and security services about these radical imams and not to focus purely and simply on certain countries. Fifthly, as I have already said, the monitoring of this problem must be considered in a comprehensive manner, which requires the necessary staff. Budgetary problems for the security sector, including therefore for State Security, will be discussed during the forthcoming budgetary control. Question 6: Let me briefly describe the procedure on the subject. When a foreign imam mentions imam activities as a reason for residence on his visa application, Foreign Affairs requests the opinion of the Foreign Office, which in turn requests advice from the State Security. If the person in question is known to the State Security in a negative way, for example because of extremist statements or opinions, such relevant information shall be promptly transmitted. Thus, the Interior, and more specifically the Office of Foreigners, is the competent authority for access to the territory, stay, establishment and removal of foreigners in Belgium. Foreign Affairs, for their part, is concerned in the sense that an application for a visa may be submitted to a Belgian embassy or consulate competent for the country in which the applicant resides. And finally, justice is competent, since the State Security issues opinions for the Office of Foreigners. These are the answers to your six questions, Mrs. Onkelinx.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic097x.u26	Mr President, I thank the Minister. We have the same opinion on the matter; that is a good thing. You have described the procedure, the work of exchanging information between the State Security and its counterparts. What I am also interested in – but it was not in my six questions – is whether other systems existed at European Union level, which may be more interesting than ours for the control of imams. I do not know the answer to this question; perhaps it would be interesting to screen foreign devices to determine whether they are more effective and whether we can highlight them in a better fight against radicalism.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic097x.u27	Minister, the problem and the level of court fees are an item that has been going on for a long time. Many actions have already been taken to reduce court costs. For example, the cost of the telephone tap was halved and increased competition was also ensured in the context of DNA analyses, leading to a more advantageous rate. However, these actions do not have a retroactive effect, so the arrears inherited from pastors in the department could not be completely eliminated in this way. Last year, if I am correct, 97 million euros of invoices were settled on court fees. Given the savings, this year's budget is much lower. The invoices that have already been submitted for payment would already represent a considerable amount. Minister, is there enough budget this year to get rid of the behind and pay the new invoices? Can you tell me how many invoices are waiting for payment at the moment? Can you give a tip of the veil on how the agreed savings of 20% will be achieved?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic097x.u28	Mr President, Mrs Lahaye-Battheu, when I took office at the end of 2014, I instructed my department to eliminate as much delay as possible in the costs of justice by redistributing the remaining budgetary resources to this budget line. The public prosecutors were asked to make as many payments as possible before Christmas 2014 using the funds thus made available to them. This week I had a constructive meeting with the legal interpreters and the translators, who confirmed to me that this action was palpable in their field. However, this does not mean that this delay has been eliminated. This will still weigh on the 2015 budgets for an amount of 45 million, insofar as the invoices are already known in the system. In the 2015 Budget Act, a credit of EUR 70 937 000 was entered in commitment credit for court expenses and EUR 71 102 000 in liquidation credit. I believe that these budgets will not be enough to make the 2015 payments and to eliminate the delays of 2014 and previous years. That is why I have instructed my department to draw up an action plan for court fees. This action plan is threefold. First of all, my cabinet, along with the administration, is working out quick wins for my potpourriwet. These quick wins result from the finding that excess costs were not sufficiently reduced, such as stamps (12 million euros), registered shipments (8 million euros) and subpoenas (21 million euros). Secondly, the development of a clear management model for those and other costs within the FPS Justice. Thirdly, a course of structural measures designed to contribute directly to the control of costs: the organisation of a uniform and computerised accounting process, the negotiation and simplification of the tariff structures of telecom operators, interpreters and translators, DNA and toxicological analyses, the organisation of a national register of legal experts, more efficient management of the supporting documents, etc.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic097x.u29	Thank you, Minister, for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic097x.u30	One of the high expenditure items in the Justice Department is the costs for telecom operators, for example for carrying out a telephone tap. Today, the FPS Justice would have a debt of 24 million euros to the telecom operators. The tariffs for the telephone tap have already fallen during the past period of administration, after the study of the BIPT showed that the telecom operators worked on the cost multiplied by two. Minister, you have announced that you want to save more. You said, among other things, that as a major buyer, you are renegotiating the contracts and would like to save €7 million in 2016. Is it true that the debt amounts to EUR 24 million? At what time is it planned to repay the debt? Should there not be a prior study by the BIPT and possibly consultation with your colleague, the Minister for Economic Affairs, when the contracts are renegotiated in order to adjust the telecommunications tariffs? How and when will additional savings of EUR 7 million be achieved?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic097x.u31	Mrs Lahaye-Battheu, the figure you are quoting is the subject of legal proceedings and can therefore neither be denied nor confirmed by me. I can confirm, however, that exercises have already been carried out in the past to adapt the tariffs of telephone taps to market conditions. This was the case in 2011 and 2013. Even now, BIPT has been asked to study the updated cost of services. The study is based on a simplified approach to the tariff structure, which was proposed to telecom operators in cooperation with BIPT on 23 January. They generally supported the simplified tariff structure, which is reduced from 27 tariff groups to 7. This should significantly simplify the charging and billing and reduce the administrative and accounting burden by half, both for the FPS Justice and for the telecom operators themselves. A new meeting will be held as soon as the new cost calculation of the BIPT has been made.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic097x.u32	Thank you, Minister, for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic097x.u33	Minister, as part of the anti-terrorist action in Verviers on 15 January, one of the suspects mentioned in the investigation and wanted by the police was suspected of having fled to Spain. It quickly became apparent that this man was at his home in Molenbeek-Saint-Jean and was wearing an electronic bracelet. You have explained, in the combined commissions of Justice, National Defence and the Interior, that the prison and police databases are not connected, but that the police can consult the prison management's databases. A possible connection between the data banks would cost 200 00 euros. Knowing that both the government agreement and your political policy statement provide for such a connection, I would like to know, Mr.Minister, how soon this could be effective. Is there any plans to connect prison and police databases during this year? Pending such a connection, how can the police consult the prison administration's data banks? Is a specific procedure in place? Is this procedure applicable in the event of an emergency?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic097x.u34	Mr President, I announced, fifteen days ago, the launch of the new SIDIS-suite application for prison transplants. Thanks to this new SIDIS application, it is possible to establish the automatic link between information available in prisons and police databases. This connection is scheduled to start at the end of March, in about a month and a half. The Federal Police already have access to all the data in the SIDIS-Suite database, allowing it to update this information and make it available to its employees. This is direct read-only access to the SIDIS-suite application. This connection is accessible to employees of the Federal Police and makes it possible to consult on-line the data collected by prisons. While waiting for the definitive solution, namely the connection, there is already a transmission of information, but without push system, which is precisely the progress expected by the definitive solution.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic097x.u35	Minister, thank you for your answers, which do not call for a reply on my part.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic097x.u36	Minister, as you know, too many prohibited objects are circulating in the cells. Article 109 of the Law of Principles provides for the search of prisons. Many guards have explained to us that under this law, when a search takes place, they must communicate their names to the detainees. This can cause pressure in both directions. Therefore, would it not be wise to envisage the creation of an external pool, even if this implied a slight change in the law of principles? Moreover, in your statement, you indicated that it would be reviewed in part. This external pool would mitigate the inmate's risk of pressure on the guard. Do you have any indication of the average number of cell searches carried out in prisons? What types of prohibited items are discovered as a result of these excavations? Do you think that the means made available to prison officers to carry out cell searches are sufficient? Do you think that this external pool would be relevant and likely to make the excavations more serene?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic097x.u37	Mr President, cell searches are an integral part of the essential functions of prison staff. Moreover, they constitute initial training. There is therefore no reason to entrust these searches to a specialized group. Given the amount of excavations that take place each year, this trail would not bring any added value – on the contrary. Indeed, there are several searches every day for each institution. Each prison authority is responsible for searches, which may take place in two ways: at the request of the management, if there is evidence that a search of one or more cells is necessary, or at random. In practice, they take place constantly. I cannot give you precise figures, but their number is extremely high. The objects sought are objects prohibited under the law or the rules of procedure. The problems you raise must be nuanced. It is obvious that under certain circumstances, searching a cell is not an easy task, especially when it is overcrowded or when an inmate has resided there for many years. In practice, however, staff always find appropriate and pragmatic solutions. Local management has not expressed a specific request to change the current situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic097x.u38	Minister, thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic097x.u39	Minister, it is not uncommon for incidents of certain gravity to glaze prison life. Just recently, in Forest Prison, a prisoner rebelled against guards. One of them had the lung punctured by the hand-made knife that served as a weapon for the inmate. It was the successive interventions of several guards that brought the inmate under control, after the inmate injured six guards. Custodians have body protection equipment, but it is not always easy to get it quickly. Minister, what training is provided to guards in self-defence? Is such training provided for in the programme followed by aspiring prison officers? Are continuing training, follow-up or retraining planned? Who can participate? What equipment is available to prison officers to deal with an armed detainee or any other type of threat?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic097x.u40	Mr President, the basic training of prison officers currently includes crisis management courses and self-defence courses. With regard to the crisis management course, the first part of this course is theoretical. It takes place during the twelfth week of training. There is theory for four hours and practice for thirteen hours. At this stage, the intern is prepared to gradually consider different types of critical incidents that will form an integral part of his professional career. Then, practical exercises will take place in the thirteenth week, then in the seventh month, on a reminder day. At the end of this course, participants will be able to apply the various regulatory procedures to deal with critical incidents in a prison, to manage crisis situations, to act on key factors in order to significantly reduce the triggers of crisis situations in order to better manage and prevent the escalation of violence. As for the self-defence course, this course begins around the thirteenth week of training. There's three hours of theory and fifteen hours of training. At this stage, the interns have already followed several hours of sport for a rehabilitation. It is therefore time to approach self-defence courses in order to enable them to deal with the critical incidents they are likely to face quickly during their field training. At the end of this course, participants are able to use the techniques taught in order to be able to intervene professionally in incidents with inmates, in compliance with the regulations, and to better control their stress in a conflict situation. In on-going training, in-house coaches at all institutions provide conflict management courses to train all external staff. The method used is that of the five-phase model of the normal situation that passes into verbal assault, then physical, managed by an intervention before stabilizing again. Annual recycling is planned. The training process in particular is managed at the level of the institutions themselves. There is a decrease in training opportunities due to the difficulty of making available staff and a lack of in-house coaches. As a result, many schools no longer organise these courses. However, we are in a period of transition, since the modalities of this training should be managed in the future by or in collaboration with the planned violence control centre within the security corps. There is also a specific process of training intervention teams within the correctional institutions chosen on the basis of the identified risks. This process is still in the start-up phase. It consists of the training of about 40 officers per targeted institution. Training is provided within the security corps. It has an initial duration of 10 days with a medical selection and a one-day retraining every six months. Apart from this, various initiatives are being taken by the training centre to offer continuous training in crisis management but also in the improvement of relational skills which must also participate in the development of dynamic security. These trainings are sometimes specific to supervisory staff and sometimes open to all categories of staff. I attach to my response the five-phase model of incident management and the reference sheets of crisis management and self-defence courses. With regard to the equipment made available to prison officers to deal with an armed detainee or any other type of threat, but which can only be used on the explicit order of the director of the institution, each institution is equipped with physical protective equipment (shells, shields, batons, handcuffs, restraints). Some have acquired anti-cut gloves in kevlar to be able to act against artisanal knives. This equipment, even if placed in a safe place, is readily available. It is also possible by decision of the hierarchy to call on the intervention platoon. This team of at least four officers, one of whom acts as a leader as a last resort. She has received long specific training and is enrolled in a regular retraining programme. Agents have full equipment that allows them to intervene with maximum protection. A minimum of 20 minutes is required to take them to the field of intervention. They have to brief themselves, equip themselves and move around. Once on the ground, the intervention is immediate. It is also possible to call on the police in the event of the presence of weapons likely to endanger platoon officers. In conclusion, it seems to me that the necessary protective measures are being taken. Now, Mr. President, I think you want to work in prison yourself, don't you?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic097x.u41	I'm asking. Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic097x.u42	Minister, this question is a follow-up to the question I asked at the end of January, together with Mr Degroote, about the Veurne Court. You told us then that there was a thought to terminate the building's lease early. However, it was only a matter of thinking and it was therefore premature to say something definitive about this. I would like to ask you some additional questions, since in the meantime initiatives have been taken in several municipalities in the Veurne district, in the form of motions approved by the municipal councils. You also received proposals to organise the court at another location. Can you confirm that the lease of the building is still running until the end of 2021? What are the contractual termination options and any fees in the event of an early termination? Can you answer the question whether an alternative housing location is an option? What were your answers to the motions you received?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic097x.u43	Mrs Lahaye-Battheu, I also refer to the answer I gave you on 21 January. There is no final decision and therefore no alternative proposals are being examined at the moment. As I explained at the time, important savings must be made, by working more efficiently and by thinking differently about the use of resources, but that saving is not in the rent burden for the Justice Department. The conclusion of a lease is, after all, the responsibility of the Government of the Buildings. They build or rent a building and then make it available to the occupying service, in this case the Justice Department. For the details of the contract, I must refer you to my colleague who is responsible for the Directorate of Buildings. As regards your last question, I can confirm that I have received motions from the following municipalities: Veurne, De Panne, Koksijde and Alveringem. I have read it carefully and, of course, I will include all the relevant arguments in the exercise.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic097x.u44	Thank you, Minister, for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic097x.u45	Mr. Chair, Minister, the current context is quite specific, but the previous government had taken many intelligence initiatives and actions, including the Belgian Intelligence Academy (BIA) project. You have announced with your Defence colleague the establishment of this "academie" responsible for providing joint training to analysts of the two Belgian intelligence services, the State Security and the General Intelligence and Security Service (SGRS). According to Lieutenant-General Eddy Testelmans, there will be no additional costs, either in personnel or in construction, under an existing Memorandum of Understanding between Defence and Justice. That's good news for the government! My group believes that this is an important achievement, in particular in order to ensure better communication between these Belgian intelligence services. The current context leads us to optimize this information. Therefore, Minister, I would like to ask you the following questions. How will the start of this Belgian Intelligence Academy be organised, and according to what timetable? What reconciliations should it allow in terms of training between the SGRS and the State Security? Is this initiative part of a European dynamic? Your colleague, the Minister of the Interior, told me about the cooperation he wanted to establish with Britain in this area. Are there any other global reflections on how to bring these services closer together? Once the joint trainings have been completed, should this "academie" bring about changes in the exchange of information, or even personnel, between the two entities? I'm not asking you if we're going to a merger of the two? What about the training and role of OCAM officers in this context? This point seems very important to me. At the press conference, Jaak Raes, for his part, pointed out that joint courses could begin after the recruitment of new analysts for both services, which is complicated by the budgetary savings imposed on all federal departments. It seems, however, that exceptions are possible by submitting a dossier to the Council of Ministers. Do you therefore intend to implement such exceptions? If so, when?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic097x.u46	Mr President, Mr Massin, through the official creation of the BIA, the aim is to organise training on intelligence analysis twice a year. For 2015, this will take place in June-September and November-December respectively. Through these courses, the BIA intends to provide joint training to analysts from the two Belgian intelligence services, including on terminology, analytical techniques and communication and application methods. This uniformity will therefore have a positive impact on the exchange of analysis. The training will begin with new analysts and will be part of their basic training. She will be part of their internship program. At the same time, however, all analysts present will also be invited to participate to enable everyone to acquire the same theoretical and practical knowledge. In a second stage, other courses should be developed as part of continuing training. At European and non-European level, training institutes already exist for a long time in many countries. They depend either on a single service or are under the aegis of several national intelligence services. State Security personnel as well as employees of the SGRS may participate in such training. This possibility, however, is not open to all analyses because of the prohibitive nature of the travel, stay and registration costs that this would entail. There are indeed contacts and similarities with these foreign variants. Structural cooperation, both with Belgian universities and with foreign institutions, is perfectly possible. As soon as its operation has reached a cruising pace, the BIA intends to open its doors not only to interested third-party organizations that employ analysts (Foreign Affairs, Financial Information Processing Unit, Federal Police, OCAM) but also to foreign services. Several countries have already shown interest in this regard. The State Security has already clearly informed me in detail of the lack of personnel that it faces. Budgetary problems for the security sector, including therefore for State Security, will be discussed during the forthcoming budgetary control.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic097x.u47	Minister, thank you. As far as budgetary control is concerned, I wish you every success, but I will return to that in the other questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic097x.u48	Mr President, Minister, last year the courts and courts in the Brussels district were doubled in a Dutch-speaking and French-speaking court. The Registrys underwent the same fate and were housed in separate premises. The Dutch-speaking correctional registry at the court of first instance was housed in old, musty premises that actually do not meet the quality standards of what is expected today. The condition of the premises is questionable, the Licht raid is bad, there is little insulation because of only glass and there is a piercing smell. These are the main complaints. In the meantime, we're almost a year away. What is the current state of affairs, Minister? Has anything changed after a year? If so, what? If not, why not? Are there any moving plans? If so, when will these be implemented?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic097x.u49	Mr President, Mrs Van Vaerenbergh, the current housing of the rectional Registry of the Dutch-speaking Court of First Instance is only a temporary solution. This service will have new premises available at the Brussels Palace of Justice P1. The allocation of these premises to the Dutch-speaking court indeed took place at the beginning of 2014 and was confirmed by the Buildings Committee of the Brussels judicial district on 7 March 2014. However, since these premises require a thorough renovation, a complete remodeling and renovation dossier tailored to the specific needs of the correctional registry was prepared by the Directorate of Buildings, in consultation and coordination with the Infrastructure Directorate of DGRO. In the meantime, the Government of the Buildings has launched an appropriate public contract for these works. According to enquiries from the Directors of the Buildings, a proposal for allocation can soon be submitted to the Treasury Inspectorate. Therefore, a planning can be envisaged by the Buildings Regie, with the target for the commitment at the end of February 2015, as the target for the start of the works in mid-March 2015, then about four months for the execution of the works and as the target for the end of the works at the end of August 2015. For further details or follow-up, I would like to refer to my colleague responsible for the Directorate of Buildings.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic097x.u50	Minister, I hope that the timetable can be respected. Last year I was on the scene and the condition of the building is indeed not optimal. The French-speaking Registry is very modern and I found it poignant to see how the Dutch-speaking Registry is housed. I hope that the timetable can be respected and that the Dutch Registry can have a better place to live, so that the working conditions can be as effective as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic097x.u51	Minister, the circular on electronic supervision of 17 July 2013 should not be applied by the prison director to facts referred to in Articles 372 to 387 of the Criminal Code. I therefore believe that I can interpret that prisoners convicted of intra-family violence are not excluded from the application of the electronic surveillance letter. This leads to situations where an inmate can serve his sentence with an ankle bracelet at home and surrounded by his victim. In addition, in your policy paper, you are in favour of the debrief No. To revise 1816 of 10 January 2014 and therefore the circular of 17 January 2005 in order to make the execution of the sentence more credible and to provide a guarantee that all penalties can be carried out and that a better probation will prevent the recurrence. Mr Minister, first of all, what do you think about taking Article 1410 of the Criminal Code, in addition to Articles 372 to 387, if the situation is indeed as I have outlined it here, into account as an exclusion for the application of the letter on electronic supervision by the prison director? Secondly, how can a prison director see through the SIDIS suite on the basis of which articles of the Criminal Code the prisoner was convicted? Is it explicitly stated that the penalty falls within the scope of Articles 372 to 387? In what way is it made apparent to the prison director that an inmate is the perpetrator of intra-family violence? In other words, can the prison director see through the SIDIS suite the reason for the sentence? Thirdly, are there any cases in which the prison director refused to apply the letter because the prisoner had committed intra-family violence? I would like to ask the following questions about the revision of the provisional release letters. If seven months of imprisonment is no longer automatically converted into wearing an anklet for one month, this will of course have an impact on the number of prisoners. Minister, what additional capacity do you think you need in order to be able to revise the letters? Do you already have an idea of the timing of that review? What are the necessary conditions, in your view, to be met before a review can be carried out?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic097x.u52	Ms Van Vaerenbergh, the letter to which you refer, is the Ministerial Letter of 17 July 2013, which aims to optimise the execution of the sentence for persons sentenced to penalties which do not exceed the three-year period and for whom, subject to exceptions, electronic supervision in the area of criminal execution is the norm. When drafting the letter, it was examined whether facts of intra-family violence had to be explicitly excluded from the scope of the letter, as was the case for the offences provided for in Articles 372 to 387 of the Criminal Code on the sexual assault of dignity and rape. In the final format, facts of intra-family violence were not excluded from the scope, as problems were rarely identified in practice. However, management has been asked to remain vigilant in such cases and, in case of doubt, to request a social survey and possibly to impose special conditions. However, I cannot tell from the databases how many cases are involved and whether there are actual cases where electronic surveillance has been refused. A simple consultation of SIDIS suite allows to know on the basis of which legal provisions a person was convicted. The prison director may therefore consult SIDIS suite to determine whether or not a convicted person was excluded from the ordinary procedure for granting electronic supervision under Articles 372 to 387 of the Criminal Code. Convicts based on those articles are excluded, even if it is not clear at the time of the consultation of SIDIS suite whether or not the facts are linked to an intrafamily context.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic097x.u53	Thank you, Minister, for your answers. I do not think I have been given an answer to all the questions, but I will come back to this later. It seems strange to me that such cases are not excluded in the circular. However, I would ask you to pay attention to this and, if possible, to amend it. It seems very unusual to me that someone who has been convicted of such a crime, because it is not excluded in the circular letter, should be sent home with an anklet. It's hard to understand. It is precisely in this type of crime that the perpetrator must be removed from the family context in order for him to be punished. It seems to me that there needs to be a change. There should also be a change in the computer system if there is such a possibility. Perhaps it is possible to indicate in SIDIS suite that the crime occurred in a family context. I would ask you to look into that and, if possible, adjust it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic097x.u54	Minister, I heard that there would be a staff shortage of 180 full-time equivalents in the courts of first instance and the courts of appeal in Flanders and Brussels. We are talking about a shortage of forty magistrates and a dozen clerks at the courts of appeal, so the remaining deficits are for the courts of first instance. The deficit is reported to be at the root of the problem, on the one hand, the many long-term sick people and, on the other hand, the directive which we are all familiar with in order to be late in publishing people's departures, so that they can be replaced with delay. In East Flanders the situation would be so poignant that it was necessary to close 12 chambers. You will also understand that the workload is particularly high in the districts where there is an effective high staff shortage. We all know that the offices of magistrates and clerks were calculated and recorded a long time ago. In the present circumstances, with the increasing technical nature and complexity of the subjects to be dealt with, the frameworks would no longer be sufficient. In addition, you also mentioned this during the budgetary negotiations: 10% should be saved in the courts and courts, which will, logically, lead to a further reduction in staff. In addition, a number of workload measurements have been completed. They show that the workload is not evenly distributed in relation to the current frameworks. In principle, the frameworks need to be adapted by the end of 2015. Minister, you have already announced in the press that you will take some measures to help solve the problems. You want to switch to two-year budgets, allowing the courts, the courts and the public ministries themselves to indicate how many people they want to hire. You also want to reopen the unfilled vacancies over the next few weeks and you will urge the government to allow an exception to the linear savings measures of 4%. Minister, how do you see the transition from the historically established frameworks to a decision of the Management Committees? Will you take a legislative initiative, where necessary? In the past, the above-mentioned frameworks have not always been completed either. What was the percentage of implementation at the Court's office and the Public Prosecutor's Office, on the one hand, and in Flanders, Brussels and Wallonia, on the other hand, on 1 January 2014 and 1 January 2015 respectively? If there is an exception to the saving measure this year, will this mean that you will have to catch up in the coming years? How do you see that? How much of the global staffing framework is currently in place and how much is too short? Can you give the staff framework of the judicial staff in the broad sense of the word? By the broad sense of the word, I mean not only the sitting and standing magistrates, but also the prosecutors, clerks, principal clerks, secretaries, chief secretaries and others. I would have liked to have gotten the percentage and the absolute figures. If due to the accidental outflow, such as pension, death and dismissal, a jurisdiction falls under the critical minimum, where it is no longer humanly sustainable to digest the current workload, what will you do to ensure the framework? What is the minimum threshold? How many magistrates are under the long-term illness category? How many of them were replaced in excess?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic097x.u55	Mr President, Mrs Van Cauter, I will not be able to answer all your questions today. I assume you also do not expect to receive an entire judicial plan in response to your question. You know, however, that I will be coming to this committee shortly and I hope to be able to satisfy some of your legitimate curiosities, which are important for the operation of justice, in a satisfactory manner. Let me, however, say the following. The aim is to convert existing frameworks into budgetary envelopes. The transition to this system will have to be gradual. To this end, as far as possible, use will be made of the existing rules laid down in the Civil Code, which provides for the operation of the Management Committees. It is through these provisions and these committees that the staff needs will have to be met. With regard to the implementation of the framework, I should like to say the following. On 1 January 2014, the seat had been completed for 95 % and that of the Public Prosecutor for 87 %. At the same time, the Registry's framework had been completed for 93.5 % and that of the parquet secretariats for 89.5 %. This evolved as follows on 1 January 2015: the framework of the seat was completed at 95 % and that of the prosecutor's office at 90 %, or 3 % more than on 1 January 2014. The seat has remained constant. The content is divided as follows: For Flanders: the seat of 96.5% and the public prosecutor's office of 94.7%. For Brussels: the seat of 96.8 % and the public prosecutor's office of 88.7 %. For Wallonia: the seat of 91.1 % and the public prosecutor's office of 85.9 %. For Cassatie, both the seat and the prosecutor's office, 100 %. On 1 January 2015, the Registry's framework was completed for 88,84 %, a reduction of 4,66 %. For the parquet secretariats, this amounts to 84,80 %, a reduction of 4,70 %. This interpretation is divided as follows: For Flanders: seat 86.83 % and the Public Prosecutor's Office 84 %. For Brussels: seat 103,21 % and the Public Prosecutor's Office 79,61 %. For Wallonia: seat 85,32 % and the Public Prosecutor's Office 86,69 %. Cassasion: 90.18 % for the seat and 77.36 % for the prosecutor's office. I think the savings for the Justice Department are inevitable, but, as you said, I prefer a different rhythm. Less drastic intervention is needed in 2015 and stronger in 2018. The reason for this is that I hope to achieve painless savings in later years through measures of workload reduction and cost rationalization to be taken in 2015 and 2016. This method would have the important advantage that the court staff who have a young age pyramid could have sufficient natural redundancies, which is the case with the magistrate at any rate, given the older age pyramid known by the magistrate. The statutory global staffing framework of the Magistrate is therefore currently 93.4 %. This means that 174 relations have not been completed. The staffing framework of the judicial staff, including all categories of staff, shall be completed at 88.4 %. In other words, 936 units would be needed to achieve a complete framework. The internal and external mobility of both magistrates and judicial staff has recently been significantly increased. This fits into the framework of more management autonomy and enhanced accountability of the judicial order to provide a legislative framework that allows the chiefs and their management committees maximum flexibility in the use of their magistrates and staff, even outside their own court, parquet or working area. This should serve to meet both structural and temporary needs, such as work fluctuations, for example as a result of changes of competence, job vacancies, replacements, budget constraints and its more. The expansion of mobility is currently being examined by my services. There is currently one long-term absent magistrate for illness at the seat. The person concerned has been absent since August 2014. For the rest, there can be no mention of prolonged absences.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic097x.u56	Mr President, Minister, we are indeed impatient about your judicial plan, but you must also understand this. We're being pulled. On the ground, the work is not stationary and those looking for justice are waiting for statements or for their file to be examined. At the same time, we note that 12 rooms must be closed in a certain arrondissement, for whatever reason. When I hear you like that, you say this is not a problem. You say that about 90% of the boxes are completed. Besides, you're saying there's only one long-term sick person. Does this mean that 90% of the frameworks have been filled in without taking into account the appointments that have always been made in the past? Are these appointments not included or how am I supposed to understand these figures? The frameworks were established a long time ago. According to the needs, magistrates have always been appointed or appointed in excess. If the absolute figures are taken against the frameworks, then the real needs in the field are taken into account. Is that how I'm supposed to understand it? Or are you saying that 90% of the real needs have been met? I don't know if you understand me. You're also talking about a long-term sick person, I hope this is true. I have no reason to doubt what you're telling me. However, I do know who the one long-term sick person is. I can't imagine... what do you mean by long-term illness?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic097x.u57	Mrs Van Cauter, I absolutely do not want to suggest the situation to be more rosy than it is. That's not my style. However, it is important to recognise that, for example, certain frameworks are better completed at the beginning of 2015 than they were at the beginning of 2014, at least according to the figures available to me. I can't do all that personally either. I believe that the overall number of appointments, for example for the Brussels seat, increases the average. I'll take that as a supposition. That is not a general phenomenon either; there is a new appointment in some places, but that is exceptional. This is particularly the case for Brussels. In fact, long-term illness is a technical term. I don't want to hide the fact that there are other absences. Only the question is how we deal with it in general. That is an interesting point of discussion for our committee. This also plays a role in the prison system and in many places where there are frameworks. The status of public staff does not allow us to seek flexible solutions to cope with long-term absences. I'm not arguing for that, and I'm not against it either. I just want to say that these frameworks, partly due to the fact that people often get sick, do not fully serve. I can imagine, but given the lack of flexibility I have at my disposal, I cannot do much about it immediately. Your impatience will not be put to the test for much longer, but I know how great it is.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic097x.u58	Mr. Secretary, you had only just begun and the court interpreters were already taking action. For some time now, I have been holding my finger on the wrist in the world of legal interpreters and I would like to return to you the concerns that reach me from the grounds. Due to the destruction by the Council of State of the Royal Decree of 27 April 2007, the situation in which the Royal Decree of 30 December 1950 applies has been reversed, although modified by the Royal Decree of 13 June 1999. Are you planning a new KB to replace the destroyed KB? At present, the court interpreters receive a travel fee of 0.21 euros per kilometre. This amount was committed in 2000 and will apply from the entry into force of the Royal Decree of 20 July 2000 on 1 January 2002. In 2000, a litre of super petrol cost about 40 francs, almost a euro. Meanwhile, the price has increased sharply to an average of 1.71 euros per litre in 2012. In the meantime, it has been watered down again to about EUR 1.34 per litre. Due to the band the price of a liter of petrol has increased very much. However, the travel fee per kilometre remained unchanged. However, the KB destroyed in 2007 provided for an increase to EUR 0.45 per kilometre. In many cases the journey time has also become longer due to the increasing traffic on our roads. Do you plan an update of the travel fee for court interpreters in the short term, given the evolution of prices and the actual travel time? The courts are unhappy that they do not receive any compensation for performance if they are summoned but for some reason are not used. They are requested to receive a minimum performance allowance on top of travel costs. What is your position on the matter? What about your plans to eliminate the late payments to the court interpreters? What budgets will you make available in 2015? How does that amount relate to the 2014 expenditure? What is the current total of outstanding amounts of arrears in relation to court interpreters?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic097x.u59	Since my appointment, my cabinet and administration have been in continuous consultation with the legal interpreters and translators. A first meeting on 17 November 2014 was followed by a second meeting on 16 December 2014. A series of consultations are also planned for 2015. A first consultation took place on 10 February 2015. Following consultations will take place on 31 March 2015. A new tariff structure is being developed together with the legal interpreters and translators. Several elements are addressed, such as the level of tariffs, which are compared with the rates applied in the private market, other public services and in the neighbouring countries, in a search for a balance with the budgets available to the Justice Department. In addition, efforts are being made to simplify the rates applied, by seeking to make it more flat-rate and to reflect on the difficult distinction that exists today between waiting time and performance time, and on the difficult application of mileage allowances. The aim is also to reduce administrative burdens by streamlining accounting procedures and, for example, to examine whether invoices can be made periodically instead of on a case-by-case basis, leading today to a multiplication of documents. A simple and transparent system is also sought for the monitoring of performance. The interpreters on their part are working on a deontological code. A guide is also being drawn up to optimise cooperation between interpreters and magistrates so that both parties can exercise their profession correctly, thus improving the quality and efficiency of court proceedings. This manual can therefore form the basis for the further organisation of training in this cooperation. We recently received a positive feedback from the court interpreters and translators on the payment action that my services carried out at the end of 2014, in order to eliminate as much as possible the late payment with the remaining budgets in the 2014 budget. The budget of the court interpreters is contained in the general budget of the court fees and is not broken down. In the 2015 Budget Act, a credit of EUR 70 937 000 was entered in commitment credit and EUR 71 102 000 in liquidation credit. My administration informs me that today an amount of 291 414.30 euros in our system is open to unpaid invoices to court interpreters and translators, including the year 2015.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic097x.u60	Thank you, Minister, for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic097x.u61	Mr President, Minister, a call for applications has recently been launched for the recruitment of the 5 Bachelors of Laws for the granting of an indefinite contract (CDI) to the staff for the prosecution of the Prosecutor of the King of Charleroi and the Prosecutor of the King of Mons, the two prosecutors of the King of Hainaut. In the meantime, it appears that these CDI have been transformed into 6-month fixed-term contracts. Some, particularly interested in the proposed function, declined other job offers as a result of their interview and following the announcement of the results of their review. Minister, this amendment causes significant harm to these people. In addition, the situation in these two prosecutors' offices is quite serious; you yourself have acknowledged that there was a great shortage of staff there, that candidates were not necessarily found to serve as an officer of the Public Prosecutor's Office. The recruitment of indeterminate experts was therefore very important. When you took up your duties, you announced the importance of restoring confidence in justice and the confidence of the judiciary. Do you really think it's going in the right direction to change the terms of a contract, since in the recruitment phase, an indeterminate contract is announced and at the time of the appointment, it's only a fixed-term contract? Is this decision final? I assume you will answer that all this depends on the budgetary conclave. How and when were the successful candidates informed of this change? While they have passed an examination for recruitment under certain conditions, what can be guaranteed?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic097x.u62	Mr President, Mr Massin, the judicial authorities have indeed requested contracts of indefinite duration. And in view of the budgetary prudence required at the end of 2014, however, the agreement of the Finance Inspector was requested for a six-month contract recruitment. The Inspectorate has given its consent to these. Clearly, there was a miscommunication to the judicial authorities and candidates indicating that they would be indeterminate contracts. In accordance with the Directive on compulsory budgetary prudence for 2015, the experts concerned have not yet been recruited. Agreement on contracts for the 2014 selections will be sought from the Ministers of Budget and Public Service as soon as possible. I would like to underline the fact that, at the end of December 2014, the vacancies for magistrates in the Mons and Charleroi Prosecutors' Offices have again been published and that, since there are not yet enough candidates, an additional publication is planned, subject to the agreement of the Ministers mentioned above. I hope that this agreement will take place in the next few hours. The needs of judges in the relevant bodies are such that priority is given to them.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic097x.u63	Minister, there may be misunderstandings between the services, even if it is regretted, but the fact that the opinion is initially given for an indefinite contract and that because of the budgetary prudence decided by the previous Budget Minister – who has changed his position since – we are making a request for six months, it is not right! That's where the bastard hurts. This happened before you took office, but the ideal would be for the Minister of Justice to find a solution. For people who have passed an exam, even if the commitment is not foreseen, there are still rights that are created. This is not a very good thing for the image of Justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic097x.u64	Mr. Secretary, the famous West Flemish cannabis farmer has been back. My question dates from a few months ago when the man was arrested in Thailand. There was a lot of fuss at the time and it was suggested in the press that the documents under which he was detained would not be valid. That bothered me a little bit. It was even suggested that they would have been drafted by the federal police and would therefore not be legally valid. I believe that it is in the interests of all those who are on trial, and certainly in the interests of the police, that these harsh words should be made clear. I had first addressed my question to Minister Jambon, who replied that the police had nothing to do with it. According to him, the fact that local immigration legislation had been violated was the basis of the arrest of the cannabis farmer concerned. For a possible judicial part, he referred me to you, his colleague from the Justice Department. Hence my questions, Minister. Do you know if anyone here has drawn up the relevant documents? Are they legal? Do they support it for acceptable reasons? Does this incident give rise to certain steps by your department?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic097x.u65	Mr Degroote, the information available shows that Mr Lagrou was actually deprived of his freedom under the Thai immigration law, and not on the basis of documents from our federal police. The documents suggested in the press that they would not be valid were therefore not drawn up by the federal police or by any Belgian judicial authority.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic097x.u66	Thank you for your reply, Minister. This has clarified the issue. We now know that our local services must not be blamed. I believe that this also means clarification for them.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic097x.u67	Mr President, Minister, the SwissLeaks have already been discussed in Parliament and, of course, in the Finance Committee. With those SwissLeaks, the biggest leak of bank data was ever made public. It was about the bank details of more than a hundred thousand HSBC customers in Switzerland. The accounts were also used, which is even worse, for arms trafficking, trade in blood diamonds and large-scale tax evasion. It would amount to a total of 3 002 Belgians, who had EUR 5.5 billion in these accounts. On 7 July 2010, the BBI from France already received names and account details from Belgian taxpayers who had an account with HSBC in Switzerland. Based on that information, the BBI started a few hundred investigations. That was when you were still the minister responsible. Francis Adyns, the spokesperson for the FPS Finance, has announced that 494 files are currently being handled by the general administration of the BBI. The FPS Finance further confirmed that, with regard to the 193 files handled by the BBI, 136 taxpayers were notified to the public prosecutor. So I'm going to come to you as Minister of Justice. I would like to hear from you whether it is true that of the 193 files handled by the BBI, 136 were deposited at the courthouse. What's the status of those files? In how many cases, according to the public prosecutor, are there other than tax offences? Have any of those 136 files been completed yet? Do you already know how many files will be brought to court and/or how many files will qualify for a friendly settlement?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic097x.u68	Mr President, Mr Vanvelthoven, the notifications of the Special Tax Inspectorate concerning the customers of the quoted banking institution are dealt with by the various public prosecutors on the basis of their legal territorial competence. The parquets concerned are Antwerp, Brussels, Charleroi and Walloon Brabant. The Public Prosecutor's Office organises the coordination of the federal prosecutor's office files. The Special Tax Inspectorate in Brussels has notified a number of notifications to the Antwerp Office, which gave rise to the opening of eight files. Of these, one file was delivered to the Brussels Office, having regard to its territorial jurisdiction. The Special Tax Inspectorate in Antwerp has so far sent a single global notification, in which all persons were named charges who were investigated by the BBI of Antwerp. These are 250 people. All the files are at the stage of the ongoing investigation. On the question of how many cases there are other than tax offences, it can be stated that in cases where a recently established foreign offshore company is used, the Public Prosecutor's Office considers that it can be assumed that falsehood was committed in writing, in which the offshore company was not set up to carry out actual trading activities, but merely to conceal the identity of the real owner or beneficiary of the capital held in the foreign bank account from among others the Belgian tax authorities. Further research will have to show in how many files this was the case. How many files will be brought before the court, will be decided by the Antwerp Public Prosecutor's Office on a case-by-file basis as the claims in the investigation, the backgrounds of the persons concerned and the willingness of the persons concerned to pay their tax debts in full or not. In terms of friendly solutions, two extended friendly solutions have been offered to date in Antwerp in HSBC files. These were not files in which the tax authorities had previously sent a notification and a number of calls are still ongoing. In Antwerp, 16 una were also prepared by means of minutes for files in which the taxpayers had fully regularised their tax records and where the public prosecutor decided to have the files handled by the tax authorities. Under the una via-law, the choice must be made between tax-administrative or criminal treatment. In the case of a choice of tax-administrative treatment, the tax authority itself may proceed to the sanctioning procedure. The Brussels Public Prosecutor received 16 notifications from the Special Tax Inspectorate. Three of these files are at the stage of the search. The other files were filed without a result. There have been no proposals for an amicable settlement and there are no non-tax offences. One case that concerns a client of the bank is the subject of a judicial investigation with an investigating judge. To this end, the bank's own file, which is in the investigation phase, must be added. In this case, the investigating judge is apprehended for facts that are classified as serious and organised tax fraud, money laundering, criminal organisation and the unlawful exercise of the function of financial intermediary. Two files relate to the parish of Charleroi. These files were classified without consequence in March 2013. Two other files concern the Nivelles parquet, and these were also classified without consequence.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic097x.u69	Thank you, Minister, for the detailed reply from the various legal definitions. I assume that we will be informed on occasion about the matters which are still under investigation. It is important that your department communicate at some point on such a file that concerns society, as well as on the number of cases that ultimately come to court. It is not because a file is transferred to the BBI that someone is necessarily guilty of tax fraud. However, it is important that the Justice Department should also state that it is seriously investigating these cases and, where necessary, bringing them to court. So it would be good if you could communicate on occasion, so that society's confidence in these matters can hopefully return.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic097x.u70	Mr Minister, in a recent interview with the Dutch Volkskrant, Edward Snowden claims that the NSA, in particular the Foreign Affairs Division, would have put pressure on the Dutch government to adopt a law that would extend the powers of the intelligence services. According to Snowden, the law opens the door to a large-scale collection of telecommunications data. The risk that such data will be available to foreign services is considerably increased, not least because intelligence services often use the same computer applications in collecting such data. Shortly after the interview, the House of Representatives accepted the relevant law. This disturbing evolution in our northern neighbors increases our alertness for similar attempts, to exert pressure from the outside on our rules on data collection by the ADIV and the State Security. That is why I have a number of very specific questions. Firstly, do the Belgian intelligence services have contacts with the NSA or other foreign intelligence services about the extension of powers? More specifically, have there been similar questions from the NSA or other foreign intelligence services to extend the powers of the Belgian intelligence services? If so, what answer has the Belgian Government given to these questions? How are the talks going? What is the timing for new legislative initiatives? Secondly, have agreements been reached on the data that are not yet shared today, but in the future they will?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic097x.u71	Mr Van Hecke, state security is exchanging intelligence with other intelligence services worldwide. However, such cooperation shall be limited to homologous services and shall not take place, for example, with services performing mass data capture programmes. Specifically about the American National Security Agency, this service is not a foreign correspondent of the Belgian Security of the State. On the other hand, the State's security contacts with the United States are carried out through the CIA and the FBI. The security of the State has therefore not been asked by the NSA or by any other intelligence service to extend its powers. With regard to the taking of new legislative initiatives within the context of the intelligence services, I can tell you that my services are fully engaged in the preparatory work necessary for the updating of the BIM Act. In reply to your second question, I can tell you that there are currently no initiatives on the extension of the exchange of information between intelligence services.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic097x.u72	Thank you, Minister, for your clarification. I note that there are no direct contacts with the NSA, but that all contacts go through the CIA, which, of course, makes them indirectly connected. We must understand each other in this way, of course.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic097x.u73	Mr President, Minister, I saw last week in the media that some cafes held in their establishment, alongside the traditional Bingo, various electronic slot machines. It appears that some of these machines are not subject to the law in this area as is the case, for example, of machines in casinos. The gambling committee has simply called for the abolition of these machines in bistros in order to combat the dependence on the games of certain people. For my part, I think it is essential to fight against gambling addiction. It is clear that the fact that this type of machine escapes from the regulations in force will not make things right. Indeed, some players can no longer enter casinos, as they are registered for different reasons such as the fact that they are in debt mediation, can now go to a café to play a slot machine. In addition, I fear that these machines will push, through their low starting point, to attract new players who are not of legal age to play gambling. I have learned that the gambling commission has drafted a report on this issue and that it has been forwarded to the government, which is now to discuss the issue. Minister, have you started discussions within the government on this matter? Do you already have any solutions to this problem?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic097x.u74	Mr President, Mr Delannois, your question about a problem that needs to be seriously addressed, and the call from the gambling committee will not remain unanswered. I intend to continue the work undertaken by my predecessor in this area by developing a royal decree aimed in particular at regulating this type of machine for which the bets and the possibilities for winning are certainly very small, but also represent a risk of developing a dependence on games. The organisation of such games must not become an exploitation. The project under development is aimed at setting the terms and conditions for games with a low gain or a low stake. At this stage, this draft order has not yet received all the necessary advice. The ban on gambling machines, which is not covered by the Act on games of chance and on which minors can play very easily, will be proposed. These games are set out in section 3.3 of the Act, namely "games of cards or company practiced outside of class 1 and 2 gambling establishments, games operated in amusement parks by motorists at fairs, trade fairs or other fairs and on similar occasions as well as occasional games, and at most four times a year, by a local association on the occasion of a particular event or by a de facto social or philanthropic association or by a non-profit association for the benefit of a social or philanthropic work and requiring only a very limited stake, which can provide players or bettors with only a material advantage of low value". However, the parties concerned will have the time to comply with the regulations.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic097x.u75	Minister, thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic097x.u76	Mr President, Minister, questions on staff shortages continue to arise. Now it is specifically about the criminal execution court in Antwerp. Soon, one of the two chambers will have to be closed down before the criminal court. Indeed, in the absence of instructors, it cannot function any further. Although only two of the four places have been filled in, the President of the Antwerp court learned that they would not be declared vacant. As a result, files for early release will only be dealt with by one chamber, rather than two. It is to be expected that this will cause major delays, which will keep prisoners locked up longer. It is highly doubtful that not declaring the two places of assessment to be vacant means a saving operation, as this results in an inmate who is eligible for an early conditional release being in prison for longer periods of time. Is it true that from 1 April 2015 two of the four places of assessor will not be filled in in the criminal execution court of Antwerp? Why aren't these places declared vacant? How do you intend to prevent this from endangering the functioning of the criminal enforcement court? Do you expect an increase in the number of inmates? How many additional inmates could we be talking about?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic097x.u77	Mr President, Mr Van Hecke, there will indeed be two vacant places in the criminal court in Antwerp, namely one of working assistants specializing in social reintegration and one of working assistants specializing in penitentiary matters. The vacant place of assessor specialised in penitentiary matters could not be published with the other vacancies in the Belgian Staatsblad of 1 September 2014, because the relevant working assessor had not yet resigned. This vacant place has thus arisen as a result of a request for early termination of the mandate, with effect from 30 November 2014 in the evening, and not by the natural end of the last four-year term. The other place of working assessor specializing in social reintegration has been established following the appointment of the person concerned to a working assessor specializing in penitentiary matters, which could not be foreseen in advance. The recent round of appointments has led to several shifts from alternate and ordinary assessors to other subjects, but also from deputy to working. In order to maintain as efficient a recruitment policy as possible, it is appropriate to wait for a publication until there is a clear overview of the vacant places and to publish them in the Belgian Official Journal at the same time. It also allows us to send clear communication to the target groups at that time with the announcement of the vacant places. Moreover, there is an additional problem, in particular that there are insufficient laureates to fill all vacant places within the criminal courts. This implies, therefore, that before a publication of vacant places can be carried out, an examination must be organised in order to have sufficient laureates again. Although it is not an ideal situation, there is a possibility to fill those vacant places temporarily by the designation of alternate assemblers. There are four substitute assessors specializing in social reintegration and two substitute assistants for penitentiary cases. Exactly in view of the possibility of using substitute instructors, there is no reason to assume that there would be an increase in the number of prisoners.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic097x.u78	You may have received the letter from the President of the first instance in Antwerp, in which he describes the situation. He indicates that the track to switch on substitute assemblers is very difficult. Three mandates of alternates have also been terminated, according to that information. Moreover, these assemblers do not work full-time and often also have another job, so it is not possible to increase the activities of those alternates. In that sense, the distress call from Antwerp is very clear and very large. I think it would be a good idea to start the procedure as soon as possible, especially if there are tests to be issued, otherwise the closure of one of the two chambers will be imminent on 1 April. This will have an indirect impact on the prison population, which will certainly not allow for any savings.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic097x.u79	Minister, recently an article was published in Het Nieuwsblad, entitled 'Belgium', has Russian waiting twelve years for its millions of people to die. A Russian businessman had opened a bank account in Belgium in 1998 with a deposit of USD 10 million. The Brussels court had the bank account blocked in 2000 following a notification of the money laundering of the bank concerned to the Financial Information Processing Cell. The criminal investigation dragged on for years, and according to his lawyer, the person concerned would never have been suspected. His business partners who wanted to start a transport company with part of the blocked capital had him ordered by the Moscow court to pay compensation of EUR 6.7 million. It was not until February 2012 that the criminal case came to an end. The A.I. closed the judicial investigation for limitation of the facts. The lawyer of the person concerned said somewhat cynically in the media: "The eagerness with which the court takes money is in stark contrast to the slowness with which it throws it back." The Belgian State was subpoenaed by the person concerned. He claims compensation of EUR 6.7 million from the State. That's the amount he had to pay from the Russian judge to his business partners. The Court of Human Rights condemned Belgium in the Jouan case for a breach of Article 6.1 of the ECHR. The Court held that the person concerned, who requested the removal of the attachment to his account by means of an interim interim criminal proceedings, had to wait far too long for the judgment of the AI, which ruled on the appeal against the dismissive decision of the King's Attorney. I understand you can't answer questions about an ongoing trial. However, the problem of exceeding the reasonable time-limit for the attachment procedure in criminal matters must be addressed. Measures must be taken to avoid further proceedings against the State before the Belgian courts or the Strasbourg Human Rights Court. Can you confirm, Minister, whether the problem of exceeding the reasonable time limit for the attachment procedure is a Brussels problem or a national phenomenon? How many claims have been filed with the civil courts in the period 2010-2014? How many cases were brought before the Human Rights Court in Belgian criminal records during the same period? Current criminal law does not determine how effective recovery of justice is possible if the court finds that the reasonable period of time for the attachment proceedings has been exceeded during the criminal investigation or the case before the criminal court. The person concerned may request the removal of the criminal record by means of interim proceedings. Bergen's Board of Appeal considers that, although it is not expressly provided for in the law, it may, in the context of such a procedure, lift the attachment if it takes an unreasonable length of time. Do you share the AI's point of view? What legislative initiatives will you take to ensure that the Jouan judgment of the Human Rights Court is applied in the internal legal order? Should a contested seizure be automatically lifted if the AI fails to give a ruling within the legal period of 15 days in the context of an interim criminal proceedings? Are there any other corrections possible? Can the person concerned claim compensation to the civil court if he suffered damage because he was unable to dispose of his seized goods after the reasonable period of time was exceeded? Should the court ruling on the claim for damages take into account the fact that the person concerned repeatedly failed to request the removal of the attachment through the criminal proceedings and thus did not take advantage of the opportunity to stop or in any way limit the harmful effects of the unreasonable duration of the seizure at issue?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic097x.u80	Mrs Van Vaerenbergh, as you know, the court may impose the penalty provided for in Article 21b of the previous Title of the Code of Criminal Procedure if it considers that the reasonable time limit for criminal proceedings has been exceeded. That is the conviction of simple culpability or a penalty lower than the legal minimum sentence. The defence can invoke this in any criminal proceedings in Belgium. However, the conviction of Belgium by the European Court of Justice in one specific case does not suggest that there would be a widespread problem of exceeding the reasonable time-limit in criminal proceedings or that this problem would be specific to a particular district or region. In view of the short time frame of this oral question, I cannot provide the figures you have requested. It is not possible to provide figures on the number of cases, whether civil or criminal, in which the reasonable time limit was exceeded and in how many cases the exceedance of the reasonable time period was taken into account as an assessment criterion in the penalty assessment. Article 21ter of the preceding Title concerns a mere possibility for the court in the main proceedings. My administration is aware of about fifteen cases in which there is a claim for damages and in which civil proceedings were initiated before the civil courts for public liability on the basis of Article 1382 for exceeding the reasonable period laid down in Article 6 of the ECHR. An indication can also be given of the number of cases in which Belgium was convicted by the European Court for exceeding the reasonable period of time, namely 24, in criminal or civil proceedings, in which the applicants were accused, accused or bourgeois parties. Moreover, Belgium was sentenced three times, in 2007 and 2008, for the too long period of criminal investigations. As regards your questions regarding the consequences of exceeding the reasonable period of time on the defendant's seized property, I can inform you of the following. There is no sanction provided for in the law for exceeding the reasonable period of time for attachment proceedings. As you know, anyone who is harmed by an investigative act to the prosecutor of the King, the investigating judge or the investigating party may request its removal, in accordance with Articles 28sexies and 61c of the Code of Criminal Procedure. Indeed, in the judgment of 27 May 2011, the KI of the Bergen Appeal Court ruled that the seizure in that particular case should be lifted as a sanction for exceeding the reasonable period of time. This ruling is in line with the case-law of the ECHR in the Jouan v Belgium case, in which it was considered that Article 6 of the ECHR applies to the procedures for lifting a protective attachment ordered in the context of an investigation or a judicial investigation. Moreover, the Court of Cassation previously held in a judgment of 27 October 2010 that the applicability of Article 6 of the ECHR to that procedure implies that the requirement of an assessment applies within a reasonable period of time to any investigative act in the investigation or judicial investigation relating to the goods and that Article 235a of the Code of Criminal Procedure allows the Board of Inclamation to verify, of its own motion, whether the reasonable period of time of the proceedings has been exceeded. Where the AA is involved in proceedings for interim interim measures, it may, on the basis of Article 235a of the Code, assess both the reasonable period of time of the entire investigation and the judicial investigation, and the single attachment procedure or the reasonable period of time of the duration of the proceedings for interim measures. The KI may order the removal of the criminal interim proceedings, if necessary under conditions, but I doubt that the return should be regarded as a general rule. The penalty for the restitution has the disadvantage of reducing the effectiveness of the additional penalty of the special confiscation which may be imposed by the courts in the substantive proceedings. The second paragraph of Article 21b of the preceding Title of the Code of Criminal Procedure provides in particular that the penalty of exceeding the reasonable period of time shall not affect the decision of the special confiscation order. As regards the possibility of claiming damages before civil courts for exceeding the reasonable period of time, because he could not dispose of the seized goods, and the assessment of the failure to use the proceedings for interim relief, further examination is also required.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic097x.u81	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic097x.u82	It is unfortunately 4.25 p.m. Minister, we agreed to complete our work at 4:20 p.m. Mr Massin, do you defer your questions or would you prefer to turn them into written questions?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic097x.u83	I'll postpone them.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic097x.u84	Mr. President, I arrived on time.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic097x.u85	Minister, I was in the Social Affairs Committee to put forward a bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic097x.u86	Mr. Massin, it's not your fault. I was there at 2:30 and had to wait 20 minutes. Ask your question, please.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic097x.u87	Mr President, Minister, my question concerns the replacement of the sentencing judge within the jurisdiction of the Hainaut Court of Appeal. It comes to my mind that the appointment order is on your desk and that it has been signed. Do you confirm that?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic097x.u88	Mr President, Mr Massin, the place of the enforcement judge in the Mons court of first instance was published in the Moniteur belge on 1 September 2014 in conjunction with a place of enforcement judge in the French-speaking court of first instance in Brussels. For each seat, three candidates were nominated, two of whom were candidates for both places. In accordance with Article 259e, § 2, 4° of the Judicial Code, judges in the Court of Enforcement of Sentences shall be appointed by the King on the basis of a reasoned presentation of the first president of the Court of Appeal in which the place is vacant. The first president of the Mons Court of Appeal and the first president of the Brussels Court of Appeal presented the same candidate. The candidate nominated was invited to make known his preference and the latter went to the vacant place in Brussels. The first president of the Mons Court of Appeal was informed of this choice and was invited to present another candidate. A new presentation arrived at my administration last week. The Royal Decree on designation will be submitted shortly for signature by the Head of State. Article 80 bis of the Judicial Code also provides that if a judge is prevented from applying sentences in the court, the first president of the Court of Appeal shall appoint an effective judge to the court of first instance within the jurisdiction of the Court of Appeal, which shall agree to replace him. In exceptional circumstances and after obtaining the opinion of the Attorney General, the first President of the Court of Appeal may also appoint an effective judge to the Court of First Instance under the jurisdiction of the Court of Appeal, who consents to the appointment and who has completed ad hoc training to serve as a judge in the Court of Enforcement of Sentences for a period of two years or more. There is, therefore, an opportunity to provide for the replacement pending the designation by royal decree of a holder. I am not aware of any application of this option in this case. Please excuse me again for having to leave you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic097x.u89	Minister, thank you for your answer. These are the most important elements for me.
