ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-26-54-plenair-ip036x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-26-54-plenair-ip036x.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, I would suggest that today, during the oral questions, perhaps differently, we try to listen carefully to each other and that the conversations are reserved for the so-called walkways. Mrs Almaci, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-26-54-plenair-ip036x.u3	Mr President, Prime Minister, I do not know whether you have followed the hashtag #Daily Racism on Twitter or Facebook lately. It is a real cascade of testimonies, one more harrowing than the other, of highly educated Flemings, Walls and Brusselsers, about the racism they experience every day. Some statements are not as bad as others. Let me give you an example. Kid and Family on a house visit when my son was a month old: Tell Mom, you're going to speak Dutch with your child, because that's important; you know, your language retardation and so on. Just after I reported that I had a university degree and just got a postgraduate. Unfortunately, the reaction to such social media reports is not new, but the fact that the chairman of the largest party in this country, just in that week on national television, describes racism as relative, is not nothing. It's rude, stigmatizing and factually incorrect. He immediately says, blaming the victim, that racism is used as an excuse for personal failure and that he has never received such a complaint from an Asian. This week were Asian complaints about racism trending on social media. He mainly points to people with North African origin, in particular Berbers, the whole group Berbers. This is a provocation of the worst kind. What happens afterwards is even more remarkable. Your Secretary of State, Theo Francken, the man who has often taken a faux pass and who has already had to apologize for it, agrees with the words of a party chairman who is not a member of this government. There must be no lack of clarity about such an important discussion. Politicians need to connect in our diverse society, but not divide. Mr Francken has chosen the opposite of the other parties in your majority. My question is, then, whose side is this government on, on the side of the victims or on the side of those who relate to racism? What is your position? Will you whistle Mr. Francken back or not? What actions will you take to eliminate this gross generalization?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-26-54-plenair-ip036x.u4	Mr President, Prime Minister, once again – once again! - we must deplore in this democratic assembly the provocations of a member of the N-VA. And not anyone: Bart De Wever, mayor of the country's second city, president of the N-VA, main partner of your government. Once again, Mr. De Wever casts reproach on some of our fellow citizens; once again, as out of obsession, he designates Belgians of Moroccan origin and, he says, especially Berbers. Not Berbers, Berbers! A nauseous old technique which aims to attribute to a part of the population, often a minority, a negative nature, as if to more trivialize racist and xenophobic resentment. This new ignominy is in addition to other considerations expressed by the same Bart De Wever, according to whom racism is relative and according to which a mass of bad migration has been received. Unsubstantiated words from the point of view of history, despicable and despicable words. Words echo other insanities, like when Bart De Wever compared the Walloons to junkies, drug addicts. And we must not be mistaken, Prime Minister, that is not just the words of a party leader or a local official, and that is certainly no longer the case since a minister of your government, Mr Franken, called "hysterics" the reactions of the political world to the abject words of Bart De Wever. It was the same Theo Francken who had already struggled in a form of racism by prioritizing people according to their supposed added value, once again targeting Moroccans, alongside – if I may say so – Algerians and Congolese. So it is now a matter of government, of your government. Prime Minister, are you going – you, the Prime Minister of all Belgians, regardless of their origins and convictions – to condemn in the most explicit and firm way the unbearable words of the President of the N-VA against our fellow citizens of Berber origin? Will you recall here and now that the diversity that makes up our country and our society is a wealth? Will you recall that, yes, racism is a factor of exclusion, which divides our society, leads to retreat and, in the end, reinforces the extremes? Extremes in which the leader of the N-VA has settled!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-26-54-plenair-ip036x.u5	Prime Minister, Mr De Wever's stigmatizing remarks about this week's Berber community made me really chill. Such insulting statements about a population group, which we all know, are just a breeding ground for racism and discrimination. Therefore, Prime Minister, I found it hallucinating that one of your government members supported and, more importantly, defended these statements. Prime Minister, I know or hope at least you agree that such wrong and humiliating generalizations are not appropriate for a member of this government. However, we also know that this is not the first time that we have had this discussion about Mr Francken. In the beginning, when your government was set up, we had almost the same discussion about almost the same statements. Prime Minister, I have three simple questions. I really hope I get a very clear answer to that. My first point is not really a question, but I absolutely want to give you an opportunity to condemn the statements made by Mr De Wever and Mr Francken with the most clear words. I hope you will do this as Prime Minister of this country. Secondly, Prime Minister, I would also like to know what you will say to Mr Francken. In the previous incident, you forced him to apologize. Today we know that those words of apology don't really mean much. I therefore ask you what you will say to Mr Francken. Thirdly, what will you do in the future to avoid such statements that once again do not link up, but divide them, which do not make one feel at home here, but which make one feel excluded, with all the consequences of that?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-26-54-plenair-ip036x.u6	Prime Minister, the President of one of the largest parties in our country, of which several ministers are members of your government, has said that racism is relative. The fact that racism is relative is a terrible thing. It means that the victims of discrimination in Belgium today are responsible for what is happening to them in the labour market and the rental market, in the various basic elements of life. No, Prime Minister, racism is not relative. Racism is an objective fact. Racism exists. Discrimination exists. You should look on Twitter at the hashtag dailyracism: dozens, hundreds of testimonies of discrimination! Perosons looking for apartments, looking for jobs but not getting a job because of their skin color. Several studies by Ghent University have clearly shown that one in three people of migrant origin who were looking for a job or an apartment experience discrimination problems. As far as unemployment is concerned, our country has already been referred to internationally as a problem country in this context, because the unemployment rate for persons with a migrant return is five times higher than for other countries. Let us face reality: we live in a country where there is a great deal of discrimination. In this sense, Prime Minister, we cannot tolerate quotations such as "racism is relative"! This is clearly to give the green light to continuing discrimination in the labour market or in housing search. Prime Minister, for this reason, I believe that action is necessary! Not words but deeds, they say in Dutch. It is now time to fight discrimination. I would like to remind you that since 2007, a hundred small inspections have been carried out on discrimination. A hundred inspections! And of that hundred inspections, a report has been drawn up. By way of comparison, another federal agency, the AFSCA, carries out one hundred and twenty thousand checks, while only a hundred small checks are carried out on discrimination! Prime Minister, my questions will be clear. Can you disassociate yourself from the remarks made not only by the President of the N-VA but also by one of your ministers? Will you make the fight against discrimination in employment and housing search a priority of your government?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-26-54-plenair-ip036x.u7	Mr President, Prime Minister, in his interview, Bart De Wever said that racism is not the cause but the consequence of misintegration, that racism is a relative notion and too often invoked as an excuse for personal failure by targeting the Moroccan community, and the Berber community more specifically. That kind of slogan, and it's knowingly that I'm talking about "slogan," is unacceptable! Mr. De Wever creates amalgams! It mixes everything: radicalism, immigration, origin, integration, racism, crime. The only effect of this kind of speech is to oppose each other, to widen the gap between citizens through stigmatization, stereotypes and generalizations. A member of your government, Secretary of State Theo Francken, has defended his party president. He asks to contextualize his remarks. He calls reactions hysterical. He adds that, from an intellectual point of view, all "isms" are relative. We cannot admit that a member of the government is trying to justify racism. Racism is an offence punishable by law. Like Minister Peeters, I do not understand at all how racism can be considered relative. There is a real danger of admitting words that try to justify racism. They are a form of authorization and acceptance of potentially racist behaviour through a speech that seems to be built and thoughtful. Prime Minister, we believe it is your responsibility to ask for explanations and condemn Mr Franken's remarks. What does it mean by relative racism? Does it consider that, in certain circumstances, racism is justified and justifiable? As Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration Policy, does he also consider that there is good and bad immigration, good and bad foreigners? We still remember his comments on the Moroccan, Congolese and Algerian diasporas, whose added value he wondered about? Prime Minister, today society faces many fractures. Citizens need politicians to work to defend life together. It is necessary to re-establish the social link, to enhance citizenship and to share the defence of common values. The comments made by the members of the N-VA undermine all these efforts. We hope that you will condemn this in the strongest possible way.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-26-54-plenair-ip036x.u8	Mr President, Prime Minister, a Flemish political observer who cannot be suspected of complacency, Guido Fonteyn, said, not so long ago, that the N-VA was an extreme right-wing party. The facts, behaviors, statements we record, almost week after week and on which you must constantly explain yourself, confirm Guido Fonteyn's relevant analysis. When we look for the ideological difference between the N-VA and the Vlaams Belang, we find that it is increasingly tenuous, as the themes, the political choices made by the N-VA are clearly aimed at defeating the Vlaams Belang on its preferred grounds. There is only one difference: the Vlaams Belang is in the opposition, the N-VA is in the majority, and that is your political problem, Prime Minister. Of course, we are approaching the moment of truth. You had been duly warned about the consequences of your privileged alliance with the N-VA. You cannot persist in saying that your majority program has changed the nature of the N-VA. All these arguments are swept away by the very one who shines by his absence, week after week, and who disdains your government to the point of imposing its themes, priorities and political choices on your agenda that exceeds your ability to resist. Only one question will be asked in the coming days and weeks: either it is the N-VA that tries to deny itself and no one believes in it, or it is you and your majority, Prime Minister, who will be drawn into the abyss of the nauseous. It's time to react!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-26-54-plenair-ip036x.u9	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in the preamble and without ambiguity, I would like to recall the words of Olivier Chastel, who recently said that he did not support speeches that reduced individuals to community membership. Returning to the fundamentals now seems more than necessary to conduct a real calm, useful and respectful debate. Equality between human beings is one of the fundamental and founding principles of our law and our Constitution. It is important to remind him. Article 1 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, which we ratified in 1948, clearly states that "all human beings are born free and equal in dignity and rights". Our country is also a signatory and partner to the International Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination. Furthermore, our country is very active in the international meetings organized by the United Nations to ensure that racism in all its forms is eradicated. There is no ambiguity in the action of our State. The principle of equality goes hand in hand with the principle of non-discrimination. You know the sources of discrimination. Unfortunately, they are very numerous: language, religion, social origin, nationality, sexual orientation, age and health status. All these discriminations are clearly unacceptable and strongly condemned by our group. The promotion of respect and tolerance, the fight against communitarianism and the improvement of living together is the heart of our political action. There is also no ambiguity in this regard. In particular, as a concrete and recent proof, the debate we have brought - Richard Miller can testify - about citizenship courses. They will be particularly useful in ensuring that tolerance, acceptance of the other, acceptance of the difference are part of this national feeling, which must inhabit all our young people, our students, our adolescents, but also the entire population of our country. If I am convinced that the fight against racism and discrimination is to be waged on a daily basis, in the streets, in schools, in businesses and in families, we must all work on it. Prime Minister, I have reread the government agreement and I have complete confidence in your action, since I quote: "In the context of the development of an open and tolerant society, the government will give priority to the fight against all forms of racism and incitement to hatred". My question is therefore very simple: how are you going to implement these commitments made by your government in this government agreement?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-26-54-plenair-ip036x.u10	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to reorient the debate a little bit. Anyone who knows me personally will undoubtedly know what I think about racism and xenophobia. For the sake of clarity, I would like to make two further comments. My group, my party, has already made it clear in recent days that we are naturally opposed to any form of group thinking. We assume faith in man, faith in the individual. Let us be clear that we do not accept generalizations, stigmatisations or diabolisations. In my view, history is a good tool for reminding us of this permanently. [[Applause]] On the other hand, over the last few days in the debate, I have missed the values of enlightenment. Our ancestors have struggled for decades to establish a framework of fundamental principles and values, such as the separation of church and state, equality between men and women and the right to self-determination. I often ask whether we have not sinned against it in the past from a naive interpretation of the concept of tolerance. I say very clearly "we". By not making it clear that these values cannot be accepted, that we do not compromise on those principles to be part of our society. I think we have been a little too tolerant about this in the past. I believe that both principles must go hand in hand: not group thinking, based on the individual, but on that individual's rights and freedoms, for which we have fought for decades. Anyone who wants to be part of our society must recognise these basic rules, and we must make that clear. I believe that this is a fundamental starting point. Mr President, parties can and should differ. It would be boring in politics if we all said the same thing. Party chairmen and group leaders must hold the debate. Mr President of the Chamber, the debate should be held here. Perhaps we could ask the question how we could conduct the debate here in the Chamber in a contradictory manner, with all the people who wish to participate in it. I say very clearly: in a contradictory way. That is the task of politics; that is the job of the political parties. But for ministers, it's different. Ministers and Secretary of State have to abide by the coalition agreement. Ministers in staatsecretarissen staan als het ware above the melee. Ik heb ooit de Franse minister Chevènement geciteerd : "A minister, it shuts his mouth or it resigns". (Loud applause on the benches of the PS) Whoever applauds, I'm gonna have to disappoint. When I said that, I received a huge amount of applause from the N-VA banks, because it was about Mr Magnette. Now I get a lot of applause on the banks of the PS, because it would be about someone else. In fact, we should always applaud that principle! Political parties may differ. Ministers and State Secretary, however, implement the government agreement and do not have to deal with the interpretation and interpretation of the statements made by their party chairman. Party presidents can do that themselves. Prime Minister, what will you do to make that clear to your class?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-26-54-plenair-ip036x.u11	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, all citizens are born free and equal. This is one of the fundamental principles that form the basis of values on the basis of which a rule of law is possible. I will be clear: in the political and democratic debate, there can be no taboo subject. It is the responsibility of parliamentarians and citizens to have the capacity to exchange views on all matters that shape life in society. I am very clear: racism is a crime and there is no doubt about it. For me, it is important to give the guarantee and orientation of the government: the government agreement says that the fight against all forms of discrimination is crucial. That is not a general statement, but a concrete commitment. I would remind you that the government agreement provides for the willingness to evaluate and improve legal and regulatory mechanisms to combat hatred and discrimination. That's a first point I want to contain. There is no ambiguity about this: racism is a crime, an intolerable crime, an unacceptable crime. I would add that, of course, it is the political responsibility to address integration issues, to ensure that every citizen, because he or she is a citizen and not because he or she belongs to a particular community, has rights, duties and responsibilities. On this subject, I am simply sticking to reality. What is she? Are there successes in integration? Yes, and there are many! There is a lot of success in the integration process; they must be valued, they must be highlighted. Are there any failures? Yes, there are also failures. Is there a responsibility of public authorities at all levels: federal, federated? Yes, there is a responsibility and we must be mobilized. Finally, I conclude by telling you that I understand that the whole government is mobilized to implement, implement the government agreement, keep the course. Yes, I can hear you. And I understand that my government is not destabilized by polemics and external discussions. Yes, I can hear you. I intend to continue the work in a process of bringing all citizens together, because they are citizens and not because they belong to one or the other community. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-26-54-plenair-ip036x.u12	Prime Minister, put your money where your mouth is. If Theo Francken, a member of your government, says that he agrees that racism is relative and also believes that the Berbers group is problematic, it is up to you to prove that you are the prime minister of our country and not Bart De Wever. Today you have done the opposite! You're proving your own powerlessness here. Yesterday, Kris Peeters was flogged back by Mrs Demir for only the slightest step forward, the mystery calls. We are not even talking about practical tests. We do not hear about the positive actions that Mrs Sleurs could take. Mr Gilkinet has shown that racism is becoming less and less a priority for the police. You have a problem with the facts. And then you showed up last week with a video message at the Diwan Awards. There were many politicians there, including myself. You told a thousand successful Belgians of Moroccan descent how wonderfully important you do find tolerance and diversity in the administration agreement. Nota bene Jan Jambon came out with a prize to Rachid Lamrabat, the starter of the year. Rachid Lamrabat has responded well to the remarks of Bart De Wever. He said his father didn't deserve that. The moral responsibility and the moral bankruptcy of the chairman of the N-VA is clear, but today you have proved that you do not intend to change anything about it with deeds. That's a bankruptcy anyway!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-26-54-plenair-ip036x.u13	Prime Minister, you have missed the opportunity to say with a high profile, the one imposed by your office, that Belgium needs all its children. You did not condemn either Bart De Wever's words or those of Theo Francken, who supported him. You have lacked courage, Prime Minister. In doing so, you have trivialized these provocations. In doing so, you encourage new ones. How many snakes are you going to swallow? It was not enough to mention the main principles of human rights; it was necessary to remind his minister of order. You must be able to tell your partner that racism has no right to a city! You missed that opportunity. That's deplorable! I will tell you, Prime Minister, what these immigrant children want: they want to be recognised as the children of Belgium, so that they can bring them their talent, their aspirations, their energy and their creativity and, in turn, recognise them as citizens in their own right. No more or less, Prime Minister!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-26-54-plenair-ip036x.u14	Prime Minister, once again you are disappointed. Almost everyone in the Chamber has given you a very clear opportunity to distance yourself from the statements made by one of your ministers. You didn't do that. You have spoken, but we see nothing of action. Your Minister has made statements which are in fact contrary to what is in your coalition agreement, but you do not have the courage to judge him. That is very disappointing for the hundreds of thousands of people in our country who are now watching and who were expecting to get help from you. You're refusing it. As long as you do not distance yourself from such statements by the N-VA, that shadow, that dark cloud, will linger over your government. Your shadow prime minister will be prime minister here, but you won't.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-26-54-plenair-ip036x.u15	Where's Bart De Wever? I don't see him. Dear N-VAS, is it possible that Mr De Wever has too much work to do in dealing with the administrative arrest of the dozens of people arrested yesterday in Antwerp because they argued against racism? Is that happening right now, dear N-VAS? Prime Minister, you have just told us that all citizens in Belgium are born free and equal. That is where the problem is: it is not! In Belgium, the sons of the working class are not born free and equal, especially those sons and daughters of the immigrant working class, who live even more in discrimination. That is what we must be able to resolve, Prime Minister. I cannot accept, when one of your ministers covers the phrase "racism is relative", that you do not condemn these words before us! And if you don't condemn them, that means you're covering them! For us, for the left as well as for all the Democrats, this is an unacceptable matter and we hope that in the coming weeks the whole government will come back to question these social and democratic aspects!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-26-54-plenair-ip036x.u16	Prime Minister, I am sure that in your personal capacity, you were shocked by this. You cannot have been shocked when you know the values you are defending, especially in your electoral program. What discourages me most is that you do not dare to condemn this today! You do not dare because others impose on you what you must think, denying certain values to which your party adheres! To allow the whole assembly to be called hysterical is also to disrespect it! So we are all hysterical because all the political groups have reacted to this! I would like to conclude by saying that by not condemning them, you simply endorse these words! We find this regrettable! We do not understand why, in the name of the values that you defend, you dare not condemn these words very firmly!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-26-54-plenair-ip036x.u17	What further humiliation will the N-VA subject the majority of government and your position, Prime Minister? The N-VA is what it is, and I recalled Guido Fonteyn's words. But that you accept that a secretary of state describes reactions coming even from the ranks of the majority, starting with the president of your own party, Prime Minister, as "hysterical," "indignation industry," and that it leaves you indifferent and unreactioned... What lowering of your own majority and party will you consent to always give satisfaction to the N-VA? That becomes your problem, Prime Minister!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-26-54-plenair-ip036x.u18	Prime Minister, thank you for your answer. Thank you for reminding you of the values that drive you. Thank you for putting them in perspective with the government agreement. This is particularly important. Prime Minister, if I may, on behalf of my group, I encourage you to continue your tireless efforts to combat all discrimination. I encourage you to continue your work, which I sincerely know, to ensure that equal opportunities are a reality in our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-26-54-plenair-ip036x.u19	Mr President, let us distinguish two things from each other. Firstly, there is the political debate. Even if I disagree fundamentally with you, I will do everything I can to give you your opinion. As President of the Chamber, you must ensure that these contradictory debates are possible. I would add that a contradictory debate presupposes the presence of all the players; in other words, one must dare to enter the arena in order to see the opinion of one person confronted with the opinion of the other. This is the place where that must happen, this is the heart of democracy. Prime Minister, the second element is the executive, the government. There is a coalition agreement to which many in Belgium and certainly in Flanders have eagerly looked forward, a magnificent compass, a compass in the direction of reform and modernisation. You must make the members of your team diets that they will have their hands full with carrying out that coalition agreement over the next few days and weeks. Leave the political debate to Parliament, but be careful to ensure that your ministers and secretaries of state abide by the text of the coalition agreement. I am not talking about one individual Member, my comment is general and if the shoe fits, put it on.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-26-54-plenair-ip036x.u20	I have a service announcement in between. The meeting of the Commission for the Persecutions, in consultation with the chairman of the committee, Mr Bonte, was postponed by one hour to 4:00 p.m.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-26-54-plenair-ip036x.u21	Mr President, Prime Minister, everything is relative, including the murmuring and out of context interventions by the opposition, but we have had that debate. There are other interventions. It was Freddy Roosemont, the director of the Foreign Office, who called the bell this week. He and his administration, and we can assume not only that his administration receives regular letters and even calls from Members of Parliament, from former ministers, from resident ministers, asking, for example, to examine with attention a certain request for regularisation, which is still a good thing, or to see whether a particular visa application can be followed up more quickly and favourably. Mr Prime Minister, interventions aimed at speeding up and improving the follow-up to a dossier are explicitly prohibited under the deontological code to which Members must comply. It is about influencing it and trying to speed up a decision or procedure of the administration. The deontological code is a consequence of the separation of powers, a basic principle in our parliamentary democracy. Prime Minister, I am sorry about this. Citizens can, of course, ask us questions, that is their right. Politicians may and must inform, guide, communicate with the right service, but it is their duty to stay far away from individual interference. Everyone loses in these practices. The public gets the impression that not everyone is treated equally and that boyfriend politics is still thriving, the politicians are all going to be in a bad light, and the confidence in us, which is not big enough, is getting even smaller. Moreover, the file is delayed because the administration has to deal with answering questions that are not relevant rather than being able to deal with the files themselves. Prime Minister, I would like to hear your opinion on this. Are you prepared to take action against these practices?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-26-54-plenair-ip036x.u22	Mr President, Mrs Smeyers, I was indeed informed of the existence of these initiatives. I repeat clearly that equal treatment is a basic principle of the rule of law. These practices, which I believe are past practices, are a form of clientelism and totally unacceptable. Members of Parliament are subject to a deontological code. It is important to recall the rules in this regard. There must also be deontological rules for ministers. That is why I intend to place this item on the agenda of the next Consultative Committee. I will send the message very clearly that this is a form of clientelism and that this is unacceptable. These are past practices. An initiative to influence an individual administrative decision is totally unacceptable. That's obvious to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-26-54-plenair-ip036x.u23	Mr President, Prime Minister, thank you for your clear answer. MEPs must do what they are elected to do, namely to make laws in the public interest. We have the power to change rules by parliamentary means and by controlling and questioning the government. I'll say "the government," not the administration that works for that government. We all know that the separation between the legislative, executive and judicial authorities is very thin. In monkey lands... [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-26-54-plenair-ip036x.u24	Let Mrs. Smeyers speak. Have the politeness to listen.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-26-54-plenair-ip036x.u25	The Secretary of State can't respond because he's in Morocco. In monkey countries, Prime Minister, this principle of separation of powers is being violated. I hope we will all prove that we do not want to live in a monkey country.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-26-54-plenair-ip036x.u26	Minister, the problem of the employment of immigrants is important: 40% of immigrants work in our country. Mrs Onkelinx, only 32% of immigrants in Wallonia are employed and 47% in Flanders. Part of our population of ethnic origin is not at work. The parties concerned do not find a job; they do not participate. Minister, everything stands or falls when you have a job. Having a job is not only a wage received, but also a participation in our society. I therefore hope that these figures are a wake-up call for you, Minister, and not a mystery call. How is it that the figures are not as bad in Europe as in Belgium? On the left, it is then heard that this has to do with discrimination and racism in the labour market. I want to be very clear about that. I'm very sensitive to that myself, given my background. I also know that my brothers have not always had it easy to find a job, but the question is whether that always has to do with discrimination. Is there discrimination in the labour market? Yes, there is discrimination in the labour market. There's discrimination in the rental market. Shall we do that? Yes, but with respect to all stakeholders. The problem is very complex. I do not want to limit it to discrimination alone and the solution that is being put forward. I think we should also look at the rigid labour market and do something about the phenomenon of unfamiliarity. Employers may be ringing a bell during trial periods. We have already had a number of hearings on this subject. We want the majority to look at an effective and effective solution, which is legally sound. You are Minister for Work and Social Dialogue, and you may be surprised, but I think that the social partners have something to say about this.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-26-54-plenair-ip036x.u27	Mrs Demir, please ask your questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-26-54-plenair-ip036x.u28	Finally, moving insight!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-26-54-plenair-ip036x.u29	After all, Mr Peeters, it is a question of recruitment. The employers must take up recruitment. I believe that the trade unions have sufficient expertise in this. Did you therefore consult with the social partners before you launched your proposal, I do not think it was a majority proposal in the media?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-26-54-plenair-ip036x.u30	Minister, the situation of immigrants in the labour market is disastrous. If we include the European figures, unfortunately, we have to note that we are among the worst pupils in the European class. We dangle at the bottom of the list when it comes to employment of immigrants. Discrimination can play an important role in this. I'm not saying the only part, but an important part. This has been sufficiently proven recently by the study of the Minority Forum, which found that two out of three services responds to the discriminatory demand not to send an ethnic minority, even though it speaks perfectly Dutch. In the coalition agreement, which I hope is not a piece of paper, we included on page 222: "The government maintains a zero tolerance on discrimination, particularly in the labour market." We also say that there must be a non-discriminatory policy in both the private and public sectors. In another paragraph, we say that we must move towards a quantified objective for our own government to finally address diversity in our own services and to give the private sector the signal, after consultation with the social partners, to also show commitment. For example, they can work with smart targets. We have also held hearings recently and we all agreed on one thing: majority, opposition, trade unions, employers and the sector itself. There is a problem, an important problem, in particular that we are throwing a lot of talent overboard and that it is time for action, because the phenomenon has been sufficiently studied. By the way, the mystery calls that we are talking about are certainly not new. They have existed for a long time and have been applied to the sector for a long time. Federgon's using them. That's gonna work fine. It is important that the sector also takes on a self-regulatory role. However, that is not enough. Several speakers have called for new instruments to be provided. Hence my questions. What is the situation with regard to the implementation of the government agreement, in particular the passage on non-discrimination in the labour market? Where do you stand on setting targets in our administration? Has the government already asked the social partners to take initiatives in the private sector? After all, what can you do in your administration? I believe that every minister and everyone has to take responsibility, in a global approach where we first focus on sensitisation and prevention and when things go wrong. However, the final point, which must not be missed, is the approach to discrimination. I believe that the mystery calls can be a very solid instrument for this.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-26-54-plenair-ip036x.u31	Minister, we had a nice night together, and you know that we were supposed to have a discussion with you and your colleague Elke Sleurs on the government's position on discrimination in the labour market after the discussion on the index jump. We didn't get there. I was a little shocked this morning when I heard you formulate your proposal on the radio. The proposal is not in the coalition agreement and has not been discussed with the members of the government. Moreover, there is no consultation with the social partners who are so dear to you. Mr Minister, in order to resolve such a delicate dossier, bridges must be built and confidence gained rather than statements of intent. I can tell you that as chairman of the committee with the members of the committee, with Nahima Lanjri, with Zuhal Demir and with the others, I had developed a course, organised hearings and organised an exchange of views with a view to finding a consensus. Let us be honest, ladies and gentlemen, we are not far from that consensus. I therefore regret that you are now coming to launch this proposal out of the blue. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear to my party that discrimination does not belong in our society. It is the government that has to act first and make sure that it sets an example. But discrimination must also be combated in the private sector, first and foremost by self-regulation. The sectors must assume their responsibilities, and finally tackle the persistent offenders with the instruments available to the public authorities. The N-VA also agrees with this. You can build a consensus on that. Mr President, first of all, have you discussed the proposal you have made with your colleague Mr Sleurs, who is also competent, with the regions and with the social partners? Secondly, how do you intend, unfortunately, to rebuild the bridges around that dossier in order to allow the dossier to land properly? Ladies and gentlemen, that is what we must do: instead of discussing, we must find solutions to finally help those who are discriminated against in our society.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-26-54-plenair-ip036x.u32	Mr President, Minister, Mr President of the Social Affairs Committee, when the Minority Forum came out in February with its investigation, which showed that two out of three service cheque companies were open to discriminatory requests, we held hearings in the Social Affairs Committee. I also put the question to the President because I find it interesting and because it is an important debate. We should not hold hearings to hold hearings, to talk about it; I hope that we can finally reach a solution and an objective. That is, of course, the purpose of the story. Mr Minister, these hearings have shown that at Federgon, which has been carrying out mystery calls for some time, 25% is still prepared to respond to requests for discrimination. This indicates that it is indeed an important problem. We can talk long and broad about this, but it is important that we find a solution. You've now advanced the mystery calls. I hear a bit from the majority that the social dialogue has not been respected and that you have not spoken through it. I find that a little strange, since I also had a committee meeting with you about the index jump and that was not so important then, because we had heard the unions and the employers at the hearings about the index jump. If the reasoning is that social dialogue has been respected, then so am I. Mr. Secretary, when will you start with those mystery calls?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-26-54-plenair-ip036x.u33	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it was so arranged that the Minister responsible for Employment and also the Secretary of State, after hearing the various associations in the Social Affairs Committee, could make their contribution. The committee had asked the Minister of Work and the Secretary of State for their input. We would have liked to have provided this input, but the debate on the index jump took a little longer than planned. If the position of the Minister of Work is requested, and if that position is subsequently expressed, then it is odd that a problem would suddenly arise, unless I have to interpret Mr Dewael's words as if we, as the competent minister, could not give our position. We have therefore made our position known. That position is very clear. The problem of discrimination against immigrants in the labour market is a serious one. The various statements at the hearings were very nuanced. These statements show that the phenomenon of disadvantage in the labour market and discrimination is complex and needs nuances. Reforms are needed in many areas. Mr Demir has mentioned some of them which we certainly need to address. I would like to make it very clear that there are several places in the coalition agreement where we will strengthen the fight against discrimination. The same applies to the labour market. A zero tolerance! As a government, we will ensure that discrimination in the labour market, whatever the reason or the inspiration, is unacceptable. We shall take steps to this end. The chairman of the Social Affairs Committee asked me to express my opinion on this and to share it with the committee. I am the first to confirm that efforts have been made in the broadcasting sector and in the service cheque sector on prevention, sensitisation and self-regulation. I can fully support these efforts, especially self-regulation by means of a code of conduct which allows the industry itself to make efforts to overcome this problem. However, if prevention, sensitisation and self-regulation do not produce the desired result, then we must take a step further. That step goes further in the direction of mystery calls. The debate on this is being held not only in this Parliament but also in the Flemish Parliament. There my colleague, Flemish Minister Philippe Muyters, said that mystery calling can play a role in that picture, as is the case with temporary agency agencies. In other places too, the Flemish Minister of Work, who has many powers at Flemish level, has said that this instrument can be used. Now you can talk a lot about combating discrimination, but the question is how to deal with it. I can tell you that as Minister for Employment I have an opinion on this and I have also made suggestions on this within the framework of the government agreement. The majority can then decide what to do with these suggestions. If you read my text, which has been passed on to the administration, you will find that it says that mystery calls should be possible in the end if prevention, awareness and auto-regulation fail. In consultation with the administration, we decided that a framework should be established for the social inspectors. There must also be no provocation or pro-active detectives. The text also states that this should be done in consultation with the National Labour Council. In addition, it states that the opinion of the Advisory Council on Social Criminal Law must be taken into account. That's the input I wanted to make yesterday or last night, but this wasn't possible. I also want to communicate about this in the next few days. If this element is not part of a solution, I believe that this solution will not be fully satisfactory.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-26-54-plenair-ip036x.u34	Mr President, Minister, you refer to the coalition agreement, and it is true that the Secretary of State for Equal Opportunities will agree that we will step up the fight against discrimination. That is a common goal. Of course, it's just the question of how this will happen. What medicine will you use for this? Now you're saying you have an idea. You want to do this through practice tests or mystery calls. In committee, we agreed with the majority to launch a proposal which all parties can support, not only the CD&V but also the other parties in the government. Minister, in view of the subject matter, I think it is very important that there is broad support for your proposal. You should also remember that Minister Muyters said at Flemish level that he wanted to investigate how this should be done. He wants to work out an action plan together with the federal level. In fact, I find it regrettable that you have made this proposal. Minister, if you want an idea to be feasible within a majority, then I think it is very important that we work together to find a basis for support. We must look together for a workable solution to this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-26-54-plenair-ip036x.u35	Mr President, there has been a lot of talk of discrimination both during the hearings and in recent days and today. That's okay, too. We can differ on this, including the approach. However, we agreed on one matter, Mrs Demir. You have said, I agree, like several others, that the time to talk only about discrimination is over. We are over the no obligation and now it is time for action. We have had interesting debates. I repeat that there is a broad approach here, with our first focus being on sensitisation and prevention. We need to fix where we can, but the end can't be missed. Everyone has agreed to that, too. Discrimination is and remains a criminal offence. We want to sanction as little as possible, but sometimes there is no other way, and then we need instruments. The administration also needs it. Mystery calls can be used. By the way, they are already being used by the Economic Inspectorate today. So I do not see why the Social Inspectorate should not be able to use them. Mrs Demir, of course I have no problem with it. This was also my proposal in committee that we should put these and other proposals on paper, that we should work together on a resolution and work together to tackle discrimination. That is the way we must go. However, we must make things clear and not just that: we must also tackle them. I invite everyone, the majority and the opposition, to finally take action. We will talk about it, but in the end we must also achieve concrete results and tackle discrimination. We cannot afford to put aside the talent of entire generations.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-26-54-plenair-ip036x.u36	You are right, Minister, in the sense that something absolutely must be done; let there be no doubt about that. However, I believe that you are also aware that the way you have dealt with it was not the most convenient one. If you are here to speak as a minister in committee, you will be there to express the government's position. You will speak with the government's fellow Members. When I hear the reaction of the N-VA, one of the four majority parties, I have the impression that it was not spoken through. That is why I call for the building of bridges, in the government and in Parliament, with the social partners and with the state parliaments, to ensure that we find a solution that everyone can support, with the absolute determination to finally move the debate that has been going on for so long. That is the most important thing. Ladies and gentlemen, a strong society is based on the principle of the future, not its origins. We must go for that principle.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-26-54-plenair-ip036x.u37	Minister, I am sure you won't find it easy when I hear your answer. We have long known that the government has a love-hate relationship between CD&V and the N-VA. It is true that your opinion was requested and that it was the intention of the hearing to be able to debate that opinion. However, I feel that the profiling urge is in the way of finding a solution. I hope that I will call on the chairman of the Social Affairs Committee to bring everyone together again and finally to support a single position. It cannot be that we would not help the victims of discrimination by profiling. Mr President, Minister, the mystery calls are a good tool. The sp.a supports that view. There was also broad support in the committee for that instrument. So let us get to the point quickly so that we can find a solution. I wish you every success.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-26-54-plenair-ip036x.u38	Minister, I have just been back from Strasbourg for an hour, where a congress of the Council of Europe is taking place. The 47 countries of the Council of Europe are considering responses to the threat posed by radicalism, extremism and terror in an emergency session. After Brussels, Paris, Copenhagen and Tunis, there was an urgent need for the Council of Europe to comment on this. I was invited there as a speaker and I was able to say a lot there. What I did not say there, Minister, is how our justice is once again clumsy. I absolve my words. I thought I'd seen everything. We have already had discussions here about not passing on information and about releasing returners without warning the local police. What I experienced at the beginning of this week, however, I have never seen before, in particular that two people have been released, including someone from my city who is considered to be extremely dangerous. The prosecutor has done everything he can to correct a procedural error in order to keep that person in custody, knowing that he is apparently involved in terrorist acts, in preparations, in recruitments. However, last Monday we were told that he could not be stopped and that he had to be released as a result of a procedural error. As a result, that person is today free to move freely in our society without any condition. Maybe he's going to visit Kortrijk or maybe he's going abroad, who knows. Minister, I am concerned when we deal with our security in this way. I have two questions for you. Firstly, who will take responsibility for the increasing insecurity caused by the failure of justice? Secondly, Minister, I would like you to stand in place of the mayors. What do you expect from our police forces now? What instructions should I give to our police forces regarding the returned person? That's what I'd like to hear from you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-26-54-plenair-ip036x.u39	Mr Bonte, you are coming from the Council of Europe meeting in Strasbourg, because at the moment there is a meeting of the Council of Europe in the Egmont Palace which I am chairing, with the Secretary-General and the Commissioner for Human Rights. I've been different from you. I told my fellow ministers there that I had to go to Parliament because someone wanted to ask me a question about a released prisoner who should not have been released. I'm as shy as you are, but I've been transparent. You tell me you were shy to say that in Strasbourg. Strasbourg is not here, I dared to say it. I don't dramatize business. I remember 16 prisoners once walked out of Dendermonde's prison. May I now turn to the substance of the matter? As far as Hasselt is concerned, things have gone wrong. The council room in Brussels had decided to release the prisoner and the court had appealed. The prison clerk in Hasselt did not understand that "interjeter' constituted an appeal. That is why the person concerned has been released. That's what happened. He was re-arrested within two days. So he's back in. So he won't end up somewhere else, he's already in again. Secondly, in Brussels, the accused man had appealed against a decision of the council chamber that he should remain in prison. You know that such an appeal is suspensive and that he should remain seated. What happened? That action was not passed on to the Registry of the Court by the competent penitentiary officer and was therefore not brought before the Board of Appeal, so that the Board of Appeal, once it discovered that action, found that it had not assessed the prisoner within 15 days of the lodging of the appeal. So she released him because it took too long to rule on the appeal. I've asked the prison administration to draw up a report on this. The responsibility for this should be determined on the basis of that report. I deeply regret the incident, and I have made myself as angry about it as you may rest assured that you would have done. I am not saying that human error cannot happen, but I deeply regret that kind of error. I only ask you to look at things with me somewhat in a calm perspective. I would like to say that I will return to this as soon as I have more information.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-26-54-plenair-ip036x.u40	Minister, I am very calm. Whoever's definitely not calm, they're my police. I asked you two questions. Who bears the political responsibility for this? What am I supposed to tell my police? Do they have to follow that man? Do they have to supervise? There are directives, including yours, on what needs to be done in the case of persons suspected of acts of terrorism. What are our police forces supposed to do? If you do not want to tell me here, tell me later, but I want to make it clear to my police that they do not have the responsibility. Minister, you are provoking me by claiming that I am blowing things up. I remember as the day yesterday when a prisoner escaped in detention on a Thursday afternoon, the Minister of Justice resigned. This is not an escape, but someone who is considered to be very dangerous is out of court because of procedural errors, without us being able to monitor them. That's the situation. I don't dramatize that. Those are the facts. I just note that you are not answering my questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-26-54-plenair-ip036x.u41	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, your government has decided to save EUR 355 million on health care. However, you know very well – we have had the opportunity to discuss it in committee – that health care in Belgium, with a coverage rate of 99.2%, one of the best in the world, costs around 2,600 euros per year per inhabitant, less than the European average of 2,700 euros per year per inhabitant. These savings will have a detrimental impact on the quality of our health care, but also on prevention, and in particular on the structural financial problems that hospitals may face. You are well aware of this because you want to present us with a great plan for the financing of hospitals, which we look forward to. Of these 355 million savings, you want to save money by reducing the number of hospital days women are entitled to after childbirth. In this case, from four and a half days, you want to increase this year to four days and in 2016, to three days. This would save €12 million, €14 million in term from 2016. First, the report of the Federal Centre of Expertise in Health Care (KCE), on which you rely to decide this economy, may have made a miscalculation by comparing the situation in Belgium with that of other countries, where the number of days is actually different, but the days are not recorded in the same way in all countries. Secondly, the calculation of the savings you have made, I hope, but I tend to doubt it, does not take into account fixed costs, such as delivery room costs or personnel costs. Finally, and most importantly, in my view, the KCE's study that this path of reducing the number of days could be considered stressed the importance of putting forward a post-natal policy to support and supervise women after delivery. Minister, why did you start this economy when there is not yet a single approach to achieving post-natal care for women returning home? Have you taken into account the consequences of returning these women to their homes for themselves and their children as well? You know that there is currently a discussion within the National Council of Hospital Establishments. Why not wait until he has been able to deliver his conclusions before making this economy that will be extremely damaging, especially for our hospital institutions?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-26-54-plenair-ip036x.u42	Mr President, Mr Mathot, as you said, we have talked about this several times during the budget discussions. The KCE study analysed the consequences of early return home, i.e. less than 48 hours or 72 hours depending on the study, for mothers and their newborns. It is important to note that this estimate relates to low-level deliveries without complications. The international literature suggests an analysis of this impact for early return home. In this configuration, no negative consequences have been demonstrated. The study published at the end of October 2014 mentions an average stay of 4.1 days in Belgium. This figure exceeds the OECD average hospitalization by more than 24 hours, even taking into account an admission from work that lasts an average of 12 hours during a first birth and is shorter for the next. A reorganisation of postnatal care is needed in this sector. I intend to prepare this reform this year, particularly in consultation with all concerned. KCE performed simulations on the basis of hospital stays of three full days, of two home visits of midwives. An initial analysis shows that savings are possible. Before this system can be introduced, the KCE recommends testing its feasibility by means of a pilot project because it involves multidisciplinary and integrated care, the funding mechanism of which needs to be adapted. As you said, discussions are still under way within the National Council of Hospital Establishments. According to KCE calculations, this alternative allows for a more relevant allocation of our budgets. This is an argument that we absolutely must pay attention to in the present circumstances. The pilot projects will calculate the precise number of women who are considered for short-term hospitalization. These projects will be evaluated on the basis of their effectiveness, efficiency and implications. As indicated, these pilot projects may be part of the reform of hospital funding.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-26-54-plenair-ip036x.u43	Minister, you're right – and I'm happy about that. Having said that, I am thinking of the women in difficulty who will be subjected to this reality. They will have to go home sooner, where they will eventually have to look after other children. I find it regrettable, and you confirm my words, that you have put in place this obligation for women to return home after four days and, starting next year, after three days. You talked about a pilot project that could develop soon. But you have no plans to accompany and supervise these people. This is extremely dangerous, especially since it is possible to test children after day four or five. Some pathologies are reported after three days. In my view, this could have very damaging consequences for both mothers and their children. Consideration must also be given to the financial and health effects that will result for these families and for hospitals.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-26-54-plenair-ip036x.u44	Mr President, Minister, we know in Belgium an increasing number of children who develop asthma, an increasing number of respiratory diseases that become chronic and cancers, including lung cancers. Pneumonologists, oncologists and health professionals in general sound alarms. Diesel and particulate matter emitted by combustion are a major cause of the increase in these incurable, disabling and sometimes life-threatening diseases in the short term. At the same time, health care budgets are being reduced because of economic policies. Minister, are you going to passively witness this development or are you going to act? As Minister of Finance, you have the necessary tools. You can make arrangements to support ecological alternatives and solutions rather than those choices that are harmful to health and the planet.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-26-54-plenair-ip036x.u45	Mr President, Mrs Gerkens, ladies and gentlemen, according to the WHO, the impact of fine particles emitted by diesel is not negligible. People regularly exposed to these particles have an additional 40% risk of developing lung cancer. In that sense, I fully understand your question. In the context of budgetary control and tax shift, the increase in excise duties is a possible path. Given the low fuel prices and, above all, the impact of diesel on human health and, as you have indicated, on the environment, it is envisaged that the increase in diesel excise duties as provided for in the Government Agreement will be introduced in advance. However, the price increase must be neutralised for professional diesel via the reimbursement system. The current tax shift plans to adjust excise duties by 2018 to the level of excise duty in the Netherlands. The government will address the pace and extent of this adaptation in future discussions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-26-54-plenair-ip036x.u46	Minister, I hear you have decided to adjust the excise duty on diesel. Above all, I think that we must act in such a way that diesel is no longer a fuel preferred to petrol. Pneumonologists and oncologists are demanding that the use of this fuel no longer be given priority. It is therefore important to reduce the number of cars in circulation, particularly those using diesel. During your reflections and the work you are going to undertake, you will have to consider the need to reduce the number of company cars and, through tax tools, to stop their attractiveness, especially with regard to diesel-powered vehicles. Finally, you can take steps to support and make more favourable the use of public transport, soft modes of transport (walking, cycling) to get to work or to travel. It is within your remit to take appropriate measures for the environment and for the health of our citizens.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-26-54-plenair-ip036x.u47	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Minister, most of our fellow citizens have not yet received the tax return which they must complete that, from now on, they are learning that the repayment of what they have paid in excess will only come about with a great deal of delay, since your department's spokesman has confirmed that indeed, for some obscure reasons you may want to explain to us, this reimbursement will not take place in a timely and timely manner. At the same time, it is also learned that budgetary control, which was expected to be difficult over time, is likely to be less and less difficult. We were talking about a deficit of $1.2 billion, and now, perhaps as a result of this delay, you have already recovered $200 million, since that is the figure that is circulating in the press and that would be the amount that the state could save on taxpayers' backs. And 200 million, compared to 1.2 billion, is obviously not insignificant, except that it is unfortunately on the backs of the citizens. Minister, do you confirm the delays that your spokesman has reported, both in terms of recruitment and, above all, the reimbursement of the overpayment? What explanatory factors can you give to explain and justify this delay? Finally, Mr Minister, would you like to estimate the benefit that the federal state will achieve with this delay in repayment, to the detriment of our fellow citizens?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-26-54-plenair-ip036x.u48	Mr President, Minister, I am speaking on the same subject, but with a completely different title. The honourable Member blames the FPS Finance on the state reform, but I believe that the words 'to be blamed on the state reform' should be omitted. After all, the question is whether it has anything to do with the state reform, at least not this year's repayments and the 2014 accounts. Now, indeed, a new software system is being rolled out, not with new facts, but with facts that we have known for a year and a half. Some parameters must indeed be provided by the Regions and the Communities. However, the contacts I had with the FPS Finance Department do not show that any delay in the autumn can only be attributed to programming. After all, the calculation model is so robust that it can be adjusted fairly easily and can be tested in advance. That's not where the horse is bound. That is why it would be good, Minister, for us to hear the true story this afternoon. Can you confirm that it really has nothing to do with the roll-out of the sixth state reform in itself and that the services, especially the IT staff, of the FPS Finance Department, are very well organized to cope with such fluctuations in the models? After all, we must not forget that we are going to borrow from the public. The government agreement states that the government wants to be a quick payer of invoices. That argument should also apply when we borrow from the citizen. In the end, what we do is unsolicited borrowing, if we give the tax refund may mean something. Of course, budgeting is very interesting. However, if we say that taxation also has a behavioral effect on what we decide and on what the regions decide on energy, security or environmental taxes, then it is good that we also see the financial return in the short term and that we see fairly quickly the cumulative effect of the investments or the behavioural effect we have intended. I look forward to your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-26-54-plenair-ip036x.u49	Mr President, Mr Dispa, Mr Deseyn, from the information provided to me by the FPS Finance Department on the questions you have both asked, it is true that the roll-out of the sixth state reform has a delaying, presumably one-off effect on the rate of invoicing. The new Finance Act will be applied for the first time for the 2015 tax year. This will have an important impact on the declaration, on Tax-on-web, but much more specifically on the calculation of the personal income tax and the collection and accounting programme debt securities, which will now have to distribute all sums paid over federal and regional authorities. This requires significant changes in the IT systems of the Department of Finance. This is why an alleged delay in recruitment is taken into account. At present, the impact is estimated at €200 million. To This is a one-off expectation and can be corrected in the future. This has no impact on the necessary structural adjustment for the 2015 budget, because, as indicated, this is indeed about the structural balance, which is not only the socio-economic most meaningful parameter, but also that in the discussions with Europe, the budgetary balance that it ultimately concerns.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-26-54-plenair-ip036x.u50	Minister, I must admit that the explanations you give us leave me very sceptical. You invoke technical problems related to computer science. You also invoke the sixth reform of the state, which was voted for almost a year ago! Our fellow citizens cannot accept that a reform of the state takes place at their expense and on their own account. Almost a year later, we are still dealing with the consequences without being able to remedy the problems. I think you need to exercise authority over your department and demand that this delay be resolved as soon as possible. Otherwise, we will have to ask ourselves whether the savings measures to which your department is obliged do not prevent it from carrying out its mission properly and whether it is not unable to repay, which is the least of the things, the overpayment to the taxpayer. In the government policy statement, the words equity, stability, simplicity, transparency, efficiency, efficiency and even respect for the taxpayer are often used. Very honestly, we are far from it here! The lack of these basic principles of good management is extremely regrettable. Minister, your party is constantly saying that it is not in favour of new taxes, new revenues. In this case, it is 200 million that fall into the scarlet of the state; this, in my view, is like a tax that does not say its name, a disguised tax since this recipe comes directly from the pocket of our fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-26-54-plenair-ip036x.u51	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Madam President-in-Office of the Council, I should like to remind you of the model state, which we still have to strive for. The answer could consist of two verbs, namely anticipating and testing. Minister, you note that there will be a one time delay. At some point there must therefore also be the courage to act as a once-in-a-lifetime speedier. As soon as the declarations come in, there must be quick removals. That will be difficult for the budget for one year. Perhaps we should question the Minister for the Budget on the matter. It's a fact that the rack is limited. I have great confidence in the effectiveness of the services. Now we are going to go to refunds which already extend until the end of April or the end of May. In due course, they will be made after the following declaration. So the rack is rather limited. I therefore hope with great optimism that you and the FPS Finance will enforce the test phase in the coming weeks, so that it will not run as fast as it is claimed today.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-26-54-plenair-ip036x.u52	Mr Secretary of State, like you, I have read the statements made by the College of Public Prosecutors a few days ago that they, as well as labour inspectors, are facing difficulties in the fight against social fraud and hence the offences provided for in the Belgian Social Penal Code. Indeed, it appears that some CPAS hinder the investigation work of labour inspectors. It's already a matter of concern. This is even more so in the light of the statements made the next day by a Walloon regional minister that social workers can, very normally, obstruct the inspectors' investigative work and that the policy of combating social fraud should be stopped. It worries me for two reasons. The first is that we have social legislation, we are in a state governed by the rule of law, but I did not know that legislation could be righted or that it could be left up to it. For me, we have to apply them! Point! The second is the amalgam that we actually perform by saying that we must promote one struggle rather than another. In our view, all fraud must be combated. They're all on the same plane. In fact, here, the government attaches the same importance to each of them by assigning a secretary of state to each of the two sectors: social fraud, tax fraud. Mr Secretary of State, have you been able to read the report of the Attorneys General on this issue? Do you intend to meet with the College of Prosecutors in order to out-date, in a way, the information which falls within the competence of the professional secrecy of the social workers and therefore to be able to issue the necessary directives to the CPAS? What initiatives can you take to support the work of investigators within CPAS? Do you think that this issue should be included on the agenda of a forthcoming consultation committee considering the Walloon government's more than surprising comments on this matter?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-26-54-plenair-ip036x.u53	Mr Secretary of State, as Mr Pivin has already pointed out, there has been some animosity this week following a report by the College of Attorneys General. They say that there is a problem for them in the conduct of investigations into social fraud because some OCMWs do not cooperate constructively in criminal investigations conducted by the auditors. I have also read that your Flemish colleague, Liesbeth Homans, said that she would contact you in order to obtain better cooperation from the OCMWFs in the framework of investigations. There is a great deal of uncertainty about this matter. I have also read the press release of the VVSG, which says that public authorities do cooperate constructively in such fraud investigations, but that the law is not always clear. Where does professional secrecy begin and end? In the event of suspicions of serious fraud, one should cooperate spontaneously in an investigation. The question is whether or not to do so. Not every OCMW turns out to be just as well arranged. The reaction of the VVSG is one thing, but I have also looked at the website of the VVSG and found, to my surprise, a document from 2009, in which people say, about foreigners, that the professional secrecy is sacred and that the communication of information to third parties is not really possible. That's pretty far. It is an old note, but it can be seen that there are contradictory opinions and instructions for the OMCW's on what they can or cannot do. I also refer to an initiative by one of our former MEPs, the Ghent OCMW President Geert Versnick, who, in the previous legislature, concluded an agreement with the Labour Auditorate to make good agreements between the social services, the OCMW and the auditorate on the exchange of information. I believe that this is good practice. Mr Secretary of State, do you support such practices? Have you had discussions with the regional colleagues on this matter? What exactly did that come out of? What can you do? What is within your jurisdiction? What is within the powers of others?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-26-54-plenair-ip036x.u54	Mr President, Mr Lachaert, you refer to the report by the College of Attorneys General, which refers to the problem you have outlined. It is a sensitive issue. As you know, OCMW employees are required to remain confidential under OCMW legislation. I don't think anyone's questioning that the relationship of trust between a client and an aid worker is essential. In addition, I also believe that close cooperation with the Labour Auditorate is essential. It therefore seems to me that the CPAS workers are collaborating in a judicial investigation. The question of professional secrecy came primarily to the attention of the Communities. In addition, there are, of course, many interfaces with other areas of competence, in particular Social Integration, where the OCMW legislation is a competence of colleague Borsus, the fight against poverty, a competence of colleague Sleurs, and Justice, in particular the Criminal Code, for which Minister None is competent. Of course, the OCMWs themselves are also competent, which is both a federal and a regional competence. My own powers Social Fraud and Privacy are also involved. One of the solutions could be to remove the professional secrecy of OCMW employees in the event of serious suspicions of fraud. I am in favour of discussing this issue with all the actors and with all the colleagues involved, both Mr Borsus, Mr Sleurs and Mr Geens, as well as the colleagues from the regions, the VVSG and some of the city centres, at a round table on social fraud at OCMW. There may also be other solutions. My objective in organizing the round tables is indeed to achieve logical and effective policy measures, supported by the various sectors. The aim is to collect good practices and methods of excellence, as well as to submit proposals for improvement. I know that in Antwerp and Ghent there are good agreements with the workers. This could serve as an example for other CPAS.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-26-54-plenair-ip036x.u55	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for the answers I was hoping for. Article 29 of the Code of Criminal Investigation on the obligation of public officials to report criminal acts may need to be reconsidered. Other initiatives could be taken by this Parliament. With this in mind, we propose, together with our group leader, to request in committee a hearing of the College of Prosecutors General in order to clarify this topic. This will enable us to reflect on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-26-54-plenair-ip036x.u56	Mr Secretary of State, it is a crucial issue. The OCMWs have an important task. They are the last safety net of our social system. However, the resources available cannot, of course, be misused. They really need to go to the people they need. We must therefore be able to detect abuses. A clear framework is lacking today. That's what the Attorney General's College indicated. Either the framework needs to be adapted or it needs to be clarified. I hope that this can be seen from the round tables and that suggestions are made. In any case, the suggestion made by my colleague to hear the College of Attorneys-General seems to me to support it. The OMCWs are occasionally confronted with social fraud cases, but do not have a clear framework and instructions today. They could sometimes learn from the good practices of others. What Ghent, for example, has done is a good practice that needs to be generalised. I hope that this will be reflected in the round tables and that you will continue to take the necessary initiatives in this area in order to provide clarity for the OMCWs.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-26-54-plenair-ip036x.u57	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 25 March 2015, I propose that the draft law (Mrs Benoît Friart and Bert Wollants, Mrs Leen Dierick and Mr Frank Wilrycx) ratifying the Royal Decree of 2 April 2014 laying down the detailed rules on a federal contribution to the financing of certain public service obligations and the costs of regulating and controlling the natural gas market, Nos 974/1 to 3, be entered on the agenda of this afternoon's plenary session. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 25 March 2015, I propose that the bill be placed on the agenda of this afternoon's plenary session (MM. Benoît Friart and Bert Wollants, Ms Leen Dierick and Mr Frank Wilrycx) confirming the Royal Order of 2 April 2014 establishing the terms of the federal assessment for the financing of certain public service obligations and the costs related to the regulation and control of the natural gas market, Nos 974/1 to 3. The Conference of Presidents also proposes the appointment of a councillor of the Dutch Chamber of Auditors, No. 985/1, and the appointment of the members of the Supervisory Body on police information, No. 986/1, to be added. The Conference of Presidents also proposes adding the appointment of a member of the Dutch Chamber to the Court of Auditors, No. 985/1, and the appointment of members of the Police Information Review Body, No. 986/1. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-26-54-plenair-ip036x.u58	Proposals tabled by: Proposals submitted by: - 722: Sarah Claerhout, Els Van Hoof, Nahima Lanjri, Stefaan Vercamer, Kattrin Jadin, Peter Luykx, An Capoen, Tim Vandenput, Nele Lijnen - 493: Stéphane Crusnière, Philippe Blanchart, Gwenaëlle Grovonius I propose that a single discussion be devoted to these two motions for resolutions. I propose that you devote one discussion to these two motions for resolutions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-26-54-plenair-ip036x.u59	The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (722/7) The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (722/7)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-26-54-plenair-ip036x.u60	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on 10 March the Committee on External Relations discussed the proposal for a resolution on the situation in Burundi. There were two proposals: a proposal by Mr Crusnière and Mr Blanchart and by Mrs Grovonius, and a proposal by Mrs Claerhout, Mrs Van Hoof, Mrs Lanjri, Mr Vercamer, Mrs Jadin, Mr Luykx, Mrs Capoen, Mr Vandenput and Mrs Lijnen. It was decided to continue working on the basis of the latter proposal. The main contributors stressed the importance of the resolution, not only for Burundi, but in a wider context, for the political situation in the Great Lakes region. In 2015, there are presidential elections in Burundi, one year later in Congo and one year later, in 2017, in Rwanda. In each of these countries one wants to interpret the Constitution creatively or even adapt it. We are getting signals that, in the run-up to the elections, a number of worrying developments are taking place against the political opposition and civil society. Representatives of the media and human rights activists are threatened or arrested. The independence of the police and the judiciary also leaves much to be desired. The aim of the motion for a resolution is to send a number of strong signals to the Burundian authorities: respect for human rights, respect for the Arusha peace agreements, further democratization of the political process and the importance of stability in the country and the region as a whole. During the general discussion, Mr Capoen, among others, asked that the Burundian government be expressly encouraged to respect the Arusha agreements. It is satisfied with the fact that the second instalment of Belgian electoral funding is linked to conditions. Mr Crusnière deplores the sometimes paternalistic approach, by providing for sanctions in various requests. For Mr Van der Maelen, the proposal comes as called for, but he wants the Chamber of Representatives to refrain from any form of paternalism. I will not bore you with all the amendments and votes. A number of adjustments were made, with references to resolutions of the European Parliament, to reports by Human Rights Watch on executions by the Burundian army and to press releases by the Deputy Prime Minister and Foreign Minister following the visit to the region. The text was finally adopted by 12 votes in favour and one abstention.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-26-54-plenair-ip036x.u61	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank Mrs Bellens and congratulate her on her maiden speech.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-26-54-plenair-ip036x.u62	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Burundi is an essential partner in our cooperation and, more broadly, in our bilateral diplomacy. It is such an important country that my group was the author of a text on it published well before the one which is submitted to our vote today by the majority, a law of the strongest force. It is in this context that, first of all, I would like to be able to correct the report by my colleague, Rita Bellens. The report does not mention why my group voted in committee, because my colleague Ben Hamou voted in favour of this text and I abstained on the final vote. Of course, the PS Group supports the broad lines of this proposal. I have abstained so much from the attitude of this majority towards the opposition on this resolution, and more broadly on international issues, is scandalous. In fact, it was a tradition in our committee that on major international issues, beyond the divisions between opposition and majority, we could find broad common guidelines. This majority put an end to this long tradition, although I had taken a constructive step by agreeing to work on this text and not on mine, which, however, had the anteriority. I have therefore tabled amendments that I thought were constructive, also by introducing a whole series of concepts that are not included in this text, which are crucial to us, such as: ensuring the effective and transparent holding of future elections in this country; stressing the important work of the Belgian Food Security Fund in this country, a fund which, I remind you, is led by Parliament itself and, more broadly, the question of the fight against hunger; supporting Burundian civil society in its important educational work with the Burundian population in the context of these elections; and, finally, if any sanctions should be taken, ensuring that they do not harm the aided populations. Ladies and gentlemen, all of these amendments were simply rejected by the majority, without even any debate, marking the most complete hermetic approach to the opposition's contributions. These considerations, let us now look at the substance of this text, the findings it makes and the demands it makes. The PS Group has always stressed the crucial importance of Central Africa, and therefore Burundi in particular, in Belgium's international agenda and diplomatic action, both at the governmental, European and international level and at the parliamentary level, in particular through the Inter-Parliamentary Union. As a reminder, Burundi, a partner country in Belgian development cooperation, is one of the five poorest countries in the world in terms of GDP. This country faces chronic malnutrition problems: one in two Burundians suffers from malnutrition. A parliamentary mission of the Belgian Food Security Fund working group was carried out in this country in 2013 under the chairmanship of Mr Christophe Lacroix. The resolutions discussed today make sense when we know that Belgium is one of the largest donors of bilateral aid from this partner country, particularly in the context of financing the crucial elections to come. Following the 2010 elections, the presidential party won a comfortable majority. And because of that, the opposition parties had decided not to vote in order to denounce the multiple frauds. At present, the President-in-Office has not yet made his intentions clear. However, the assumption of a third term for President Nkurunziza is a source of considerable tension. For opponents of the President, this third term would be unconstitutional since the Constitution provides for a single re-election, while Mr. Nkurunziza has served as President since 2005. In the presidential party's camp, it is estimated that since the current president was not elected for the first time democratically in 2010, he can therefore represent himself in 2015 for a final term. Last February, a citizen's campaign "Halta to a third term" which currently brings together 304 civil society associations, asked the president to clearly announce his intention or not to stand for this third term. This call did not receive the desired response. In the face of the majority party, the opposition parties in two formations know all the difficulties of the world in adopting a common strategy. In addition, it is impossible to find a common candidate behind whom all opposition parties could come together. For my group, however, on this point, the text is incomplete on several aspects. First of all, the points dealing with elections are marked by a very strong paternalism. However, I am firmly convinced that the first solution to the political, socio-economic and human rights situation and to the holding of a transparent and inclusive electoral process must come from Burundian society itself, with the support of the international community. A civil society that we must therefore fully support in its role of training and information. Secondly, the aim must remain that Belgium and other donors can contribute constructively to the proper conduct of the electoral process. While it is normal for the conditions for granting financial aid to be laid down, it is not a question of using conditions to justify savings within the Cooperation budget. And there, point 6 of the operative paragraph raises many questions for me. Beyond the political situation, which is therefore very tense, the question of respect for fundamental rights and freedoms arises very clearly in that country. Several laws have in fact restricted the freedoms of association, demonstration and expression. For several months, journalists and members of NGOs have been worried and imprisoned because they had opposed the regime in place. This was particularly the case of Pierre Claver Mbonimpa, who was imprisoned after denouncing the sending of the ruling party's youth league to the DRC for military training. More recently, the head of the African public radio station, Mr. Rugurika, was arbitrarily arrested and imprisoned after investigating the deaths of three nuns in Bujumbura. The IPU Belgium-Burundi section, under the socialist presidency of which I am a member, did not fail to convene the Burundian ambassador to take stock of this situation, and the European Parliament also expressed concern about this situation through the adoption of a resolution. Ladies and gentlemen, you can see, as I do, that the general context remains tense and unfavorable for the holding of a round of three elections under the best conditions. Everyone has the feeling that the current relative calm could very quickly be undermined and lead to a dangerous situation at the level of this partner country or even the region. It is therefore essential to encourage all good will, both at the level of Burundian civil and political forces and of the international community and therefore of the European Union and also of Belgium. We must best support the Burundian authorities and civil society in the preparation, organization and conduct of these three elections. The European Union and United Nations observer missions will make sense. However, I find that this text, without our amendments, is incomplete, preferring to concentrate on the question of the conditionality of sanctions. It is probably important to prepare for these elections. The right to vote is compulsory in Burundi. It is therefore essential that the public be informed of the importance and the stakes of this election. Part of the population is illiterate and is therefore very easily manipulated. Important work must be done in this direction by the international community and by the European Union in order to support civil society organisations.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-26-54-plenair-ip036x.u63	I agree enough with what Mr Crusnière said, but I cannot accept what is not a truth, that the majority would not accept listening to the minority. That's the opposite! And you know that. Not later than this week, in the Committee on External Relations, we have taken into account one of your amendments; I think that was also the case with Burundi's problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-26-54-plenair-ip036x.u64	Mr Flahaux, you are absolutely right. I recognize that this week, indeed, on a very specific point, you have accepted our amendment. But I repeat that, in the context of our discussion on Burundi, we have carried out a whole series of constructive and not at all controversial amendments to this resolution. I regret that, unfortunately, we have not been able to discuss these points at any time. We have seen the vote to which it led. I thank you again for the opening yesterday in committee, but on that text, I regret that there is no more. You will be able to review your positions today, since I have resubmitted the amendments. We will have an opportunity to discuss this and you will therefore have the opportunity to continue to show openness and to vote on these amendments today in plenary. It will be essential to ensure the smooth conduct of the elections. It is important that all actors honour the three elections to be inclusive, free and transparent. When the voters were recruited last December, fraud had been found, causing the anger of the opposition parties. The various actors had eventually reopened the recruitment procedure, to allow citizens who had not had the opportunity to register to do so. In this electoral context, therefore, my group particularly supports point 5 of the conclusions of the European Union's Foreign Affairs Council, for which "the European Union's support for the electoral process through the presence of this observation mission and its financial support can only be conceived in the context of an inclusive and transparent electoral competition, open in a fair manner to all political parties and actors". That is why I tabled an amendment incorporating these conclusions. I have no doubt, given what Mr Flahaux has just said, that you will welcome him, since these conclusions have been endorsed by the Belgian Government. Similarly, last September, the European Parliament adopted a joint resolution on the situation in Burundi. In this resolution, the European Parliament called on the Burundian government to open up the political space and put an end to the arbitrary arrests of civil society activists and journalists, and the abuses committed by the Imbonerakure, which threaten the stability of the region in the long term. I am therefore convinced, Mr President, that this House must also take concrete and positive initiatives, beyond the adoption of this text, with regard to Central Africa and Burundi. We must continue fully to activate the sections of the European Innovation Partnership (EIP) and the Association of European Parliamentarians for Africa (AWEPA). Our Assembly must also consider what can be done with voluntarism in terms of cooperation between our parliaments, for example, between our officials, and perhaps organise an election observation mission. I therefore hope that this region will be at the centre of your concerns, Mr President, in the coming months. Requests 11 and 25 of the operative part are addressed both to this House and to the government. So let us take our responsibilities! The text before us today incorporates some of the concerns in the long term, as it is based in particular on the resolution adopted in the Senate, resolution of my colleague Marie Arena. However, as I have already said, if there are several aspects that are missing in my group's view – the fight against hunger, possible sanctions that do not affect people, the law on homosexuality – the majority's text makes it possible to address important issues by relaying the positions of the European Parliament that my group fully supports. I am thinking of the worrying issue of the militarization of young people in the region and unacceptable abuses. I am also thinking of our concerns about several intimidations, accusations against human rights defenders and laws that suppress freedoms and muzzle the press. In writing my group's resolution, I wanted to stress how important it is for this House to support and relay the demands made in the European Parliament's resolution with regard to this central partner country of our bilateral diplomacy. It is indeed essential that the internal situation in Burundi be given full attention, including after the electoral period of 2015. The international community, the European Union and Belgium in particular, must define a clear, transparent, long-term diplomatic policy towards Burundi and, more broadly, towards the region. It is not a question of leaving Burundi to its own fate before, during and at the end of the triple ballot, because it would be the people who would suffer. We must continue to support them in the fight against hunger, in the defence of the exercise of their fundamental rights and freedoms, in a rich partnership and not in a strictly conditional approach that would in fact justify budgetary cuts that this Government would have decided on in terms of development or preventive diplomacy. For all these reasons, my group will support this text, but for my part, as in committee, I reserve the right to abstain symbolically on the basis of the support that will be given to our amendments, in particular on the question of combating hunger or sanctions that do not affect the population.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-26-54-plenair-ip036x.u65	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as a co-signator on behalf of the N-VA Group, I will give a brief account of the resolution before us. The N-VA Group supports the resolution for a number of reasons, some of which have already been mentioned by the speakers before me and which will be discussed in greater detail in Mrs Claerhout's speech. A large number of important events are taking place in Central Africa. I am thinking, among other things, of the presidential elections in Burundi, as well as in Congo and Rwanda, not just by chance, but also of the countries where the President's second term of office is over. However, there have also been many worrying developments in Burundi in recent months. Just think of approving the new press law in 2013, the violent actions of the Imbonerakure, the arrest of Pierre Claver Mbonimpa and many other flagrant violations of human rights in the run-up to the presidential elections. That is why we fully support the resolution. We call on the Burundian authorities to engage in dialogue, respecting the Arusha agreements, electoral legislation and the constitution.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-26-54-plenair-ip036x.u66	However, the N-VA Group would also like to highlight the responsibility of the Burundian authorities to bring the elections to a successful conclusion. We would also like to point out the responsibility of the federal government to support the electoral process, without abandoning our duty to remain critical. It is therefore a good thing that, among other things, the second instalment of electoral funding is linked to the implementation of the conditions, based on, among other things, the Feuille route. That is why we would have liked the new cooperation programme to focus on human rights and good governance, as well as the timely preparation of the promised Great Lakes Policy Paper, as promised by the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-26-54-plenair-ip036x.u67	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this afternoon we will vote on a resolution on Burundi at an important moment in the history of this country. Indeed, we must remain realistic: Burundian politics is carried out by the Burundians and we must guard against any tutoring or moralizing tendencies. However, for historical reasons, for reasons of sentimental and human attachment to the people of Burundi, we must adopt a clear language on our values and our principles, values and principles that we share with the people of Burundi. These are the importance of the rule of law, freedom of expression, the defence of human rights, the fight against corruption, socio-economic development and the sharing of wealth for all. On the eve of the elections, we can only deplore the reduction of the political space: restrictions on freedom of assembly, expression and restrictions on the media. We must also denounce issues relating to the independence of justice. Who cares about this country, about this people, if not a few countries, including ours? Through the policy of Minister De Croo, we have ambitious plans in this country. We must bring them to an end for the well-being of a whole population that needs them. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Burundi has made significant progress in overcoming the obstacles, the challenges left by the civil war, but peace is still very fragile. The question of the elections to be held in a few weeks' time is at the heart of our resolution. Our Foreign Minister, Didier Reynders, will obviously be very attentive to the smooth running of these. The organization of credible, free and democratic elections in 2015 is crucial for Burundi's future. It is imperative that the electoral process be calmed, inclusive, equitable and transparent. Violence should not be resorted to but should be fully engaged in a peaceful process. But what have we seen in recent weeks? The arrest of a journalist; the dismissal of the head of the secret services; the exclusion of his party's swindlers; the mobilization on 19 February for the release of journalist Bob Rugurika; the willingness of Pierre Nkurunziza to run for a third term against the stipulations of the Constitution; the successive postponements of the CNDD-FDD Congress, which is to appoint the candidate of the majority; demonstrations by the opposition, and then by the majority, in February, in the run-up to the June 26 elections; the release of Bob Rugurika; rumours of the intervention of the secret services against the swindlers of the presidential party. Should the street force Nkurunziza to refrain from presenting itself, with the ensuing processions of violence, victims, ransacks and repression? Is it necessary for the army to intervene, with its providential leader, while the transitional years are behind Burundi, a country that now has a normal civil regime after decades of violence? Ladies and gentlemen, Burundi has set itself a framework on which to base its policy: - the Arusha agreements, which are at the heart of the stabilization of the country; - the Constitution, the road map for elections; - the most recent declaration by political parties to conduct these elections peacefully. These political and legal foundations are the conditions for a good organization of the country. The Burundian power, whatever it may be, must respect them. Finally, Minister, we must remain vigilant in the face of the absolute need to preserve the cohesion and unity of Burundian society. All the debates that divide it are dangerous, even more so in this sensitive period. The aim is to remind local political actors that they must promote the best interests of the country, the consolidation of peace, the search for consensus and calm and place them at the heart of their actions. Mr President, the Reform Movement, co-signatory of this text, will obviously vote on this resolution and will remain attentive, particularly through the forthcoming hearings on Central Africa which will begin next week, to Burundi's political life and to the future of its people.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-26-54-plenair-ip036x.u68	Mr President, we have drawn up a resolution on the forthcoming elections in Burundi. However, we must place this resolution in a broader context. Presidential elections are taking place throughout the Great Lakes region: this year in Burundi, next year in the Democratic Republic of Congo and in Rwanda in 2017. In each of these countries, the incumbent president comes to the end of his second term of office. According to the respective constitutions and the Arusha agreements concluded, the presidency is limited to two mandates. However, we see initiatives to interpret the Constitution creatively or to adapt it in this respect. Tensions are increasing as a result of this unclear situation. We therefore see increased pressure on the free press, on civil society and on the political opposition. Ladies and gentlemen, with this resolution we wish to express our deep concern about this situation. We also call on our government to act proactively. Burundi is the first country in which elections are taking place. What is happening there may have implications for the elections in the Democratic Republic of Congo and Rwanda. Between May and August 2015, Burundi's inhabitants moved to the polls. The current president, Nkurunziza, member of the CNDD-FDD, comes at the end of his second term of office. We have drawn up a resolution on this because we think it is appropriate that Belgium should follow this situation in particular and assume its responsibilities. Belgium must have the ambition to play a leading role at international level in the region of the Great Lakes in Central Africa. After all, this is a region with which our country has historical links, where we have many contacts and on which we have built a great deal of expertise. My party has always put its shoulder to an ambitious policy on Central Africa and will continue to do so. Moreover, let us not forget that Belgium is Burundi's largest bilateral donor. In the past, we have already drawn up several resolutions which have had an effective impact on the political situation in Burundi, for example the release of human rights activists Mbonimpa and Ruguria. A clear signal from Belgium can be a strong pressure agent. That is why we must emphasise that fair elections are paramount in a secure context and in line with the Constitution. The European Union also raised the situation in Burundi in parallel with our discussion in committee. Last week, the EU Foreign Affairs Council expressed its concern about the electoral situation in that country. The Council raised the possible third mandate of the President and decided to send out an EU observation mission next month. It is clear, ladies and gentlemen, that fair and secure elections in Burundi do not seem evident at the moment. I would like to give a brief outline of the situation, but my fellow Members have already addressed this in detail in the previous statements. I shall therefore be brief. I just want to give a few more examples. Human rights are under pressure, intimidation is increasing and the government is playing a role in this. They are interfering in opposition parties in order to weaken them, and they are trying in different ways to remove political opponents from the electoral process. The youth wing of the government party, the Imbonerakure, also appears to participate actively in this. There is a culture of structural impunity. The public authorities and the security sector are involved, and that is very worrying. It is for all these reasons, ladies and gentlemen, that we ask the federal government to take steps. The main lines of the resolution we have drawn up are as follows. Firstly, we want to insist that our government conducts a strong political dialogue with the Burundian authorities. The focus should be on the issue of respect for the proper conduct of the elections, respect for the constitution and the Arusha agreements, monitoring the inclusiveness of the electoral process and the independence of the electoral bodies and the security services. It should also be stressed that Belgium attaches importance to inclusive and transparent elections with respect for freedom of expression. We also want, in consultation with the Burundian authorities, civil society and other donors, to link the second instalment of Belgian electoral funding to the smooth running of these elections. This resolution also calls on the Belgian Government to work in depth on a strategic note on our socio-economic, cultural and political relations with the countries of the Great Lakes region. Belgium must also play a leading role in the European context and help to achieve a European voice on this region. It also calls for an election observation mission from the European Union, for a policy of sanctions to be developed and for support for civil society in Burundi, including through the proper follow-up of restrictive legislation on non-profit organisations. With regard to the specific situations of intimidation of human rights defenders, such as Pierre Claver Mbonimpa, Pacifice Nininahazwe and Bob Ruguria, we ask the government to take initiatives to put an end to this. As Members of this House, we also wish to be fully informed about the initiatives that are being taken.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-26-54-plenair-ip036x.u69	Ladies and gentlemen, we have discussed the resolution in committee and we have adopted a series of amendments which add value to the whole. Amendments that are repetitions and lead to redundancy or have a different focus from the electoral process, such as the very legitimate fight against hunger, have been rejected because we want to keep a clear focus on the electoral process. This resolution should be part of a much broader vision of Africa and the Great Lakes region. For our group, it is very important to work on such a clear policy vision. This is necessary in order to implement an efficient and coherent foreign policy and to avoid the need to act ad hocly whenever problems arise.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-26-54-plenair-ip036x.u70	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I shall be quite brief because many colleagues have already mentioned the most important points of this motion for a resolution. Mr. Minister of Pensions, I regret that we have this debate in the absence of the Minister for Cooperation and the Minister for Foreign Affairs. However, they are coming back from the region and this is a serious and important issue. It is about the future of a country with which we have close relations. I would very much have liked the considerable work done in Parliament to be heard directly and to have the government's reactions to this motion for a resolution. Regrettably, it is known that in many cases parliamentary resolutions have a vertical ranking on the part of the government. I hope, Minister, that you will be our voice to the ministers concerned so that they really take the content of this motion for a resolution seriously.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-26-54-plenair-ip036x.u71	Ladies and gentlemen, you are obviously aware of the reason why the Foreign Minister is not here today. He's on a mission abroad. I'm surprised you didn't know!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-26-54-plenair-ip036x.u72	I don't have access to his agenda, on which he's not much of a talk in general.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-26-54-plenair-ip036x.u73	The press echoes this every day. That being said, I understand your point. I would point out that a debate on this issue will take place on Tuesday 31 March in the Committee on External Relations.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-26-54-plenair-ip036x.u74	Mr Minister, the debate has already taken place since we come here with its conclusions!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-26-54-plenair-ip036x.u75	You know, as I do, that this motion for a resolution is not going to solve the problem of Central Africa and Burundi. A debate is scheduled for Tuesday 31 March at 10 a.m. in committee, in the presence of the Minister for Foreign Affairs who will be at the disposal of the members of our Parliament to answer all their questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-26-54-plenair-ip036x.u76	I take note of this, but I also regret that the Minister for Cooperation is not here either and that we do not have an exchange of views in plenary on this important subject. That being said, I would like to congratulate the authors of this resolution, once it is not customary, even if elegance would have wanted, and some other colleagues have pointed out, that we are trying to make this initiative a resolution of all the groups in Parliament. It is generally the approach that is adopted. I therefore regret that the majority wanted to have an approach on its side, without involving the opposition and without taking into account amendments, some of which were factual and others were extremely constructive. Nevertheless, I think this is an important signal. It is a sort of alarm cry that our Parliament is launching today, through this resolution, because indeed it is midnight minus a quarter, it is time to try to reverse what is being set up at the political level in Burundi. We know the cruel and bloody history of this country. Between 1993 and 2006, there were 300,000 deaths in Burundi as a result of violence, ethnic tensions and civil war. It's important that we don't get back to that. If I say that, it is because Burundi was also for years considered a country that had found solutions and mechanisms to solve its problems, in particular with the Arusha agreements of 2005. Burundi had even been regarded as an exemplary country from that point of view. Burundi, with the Arusha agreements, had found a mechanism, in fact, rather inspired by the Belgian model, to ensure that all political factions, ethnic groups, were represented at the political level within the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-26-54-plenair-ip036x.u77	Colleagues, may I ask for some attention!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-26-54-plenair-ip036x.u78	Parliament must respect itself if it wants respect for the government. As many others have said, I think it is right and proper for the Belgian Parliament to be concerned about this situation. Central Africa's political calendar is known. What is happening today in Burundi could inspire electoral processes and political processes next year in the Congo, the following year in Rwanda. We know that the whole of Central Africa is going through a period of turbulence and extreme political fragility in the coming months. However, we know how much political turbulence has already affected this region of the world. We are also legitimately called upon to raise this issue because we are an important partner of Burundi, being Burundi's first bilateral donor. As such, we also have a say in the development of the situation. In addition, others have recalled that we are a long-time friend of Burundi. Many Burundians are present in Belgium and many Belgians there are concerned about the situation in Burundi. We are indeed one of the few countries in the world to be concerned and interested in the situation in Burundi. For all these reasons, we are right today to sound the alarm bell. I do not go back to the other elements or to the rather long and detailed mechanism of the resolution. That's so good! Mr Minister, since you are saying that this debate will continue in committee, could you tell us clearly and in detail how you intend to implement this resolution in your diplomatic initiatives, in the representations to the Burundian government and at European Union level? Could you ensure that we are regularly informed of this situation. Today, Parliament has done a serious, detailed job. He proposes a road map. The government can of course have its own initiatives complementary to or additional to those of Parliament, but I think that we must take seriously this resolution proposed today and this call by Parliament to our government for the irreparable not to be committed tomorrow in Burundi, the day after tomorrow in the Congo or Rwanda.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-26-54-plenair-ip036x.u79	Mr President, Minister, we are discussing an important dossier. Burundi is an important partner country in Belgium. We spend a reasonable amount of taxpayers' money on it every year. Later this year there will be elections in Burundi. The run-up to that is not so positive. The president wants to hold on to the power. It's a classic pattern in many countries. He is also beginning to restrict civil and liberal freedoms, as well as freedom to demonstrate. It is therefore wise that Parliament should send a signal. That was the intention of the authors of the resolution. The proposers belong to the majority parties. The resolution expresses our concern about a number of issues. We are also committed to continuing to follow closely the human rights situation in Burundi in Parliament's Committee on External Relations. We will also organise a parliamentary mission before, during and after the elections, along with a number of other matters. It is good that Parliament is making such a commitment. Like Mr Crusnière of the PS, I would also like to say something about the way in which the resolution was drawn up. I don't care about that. The discussion of the resolution took quite a long time. Moreover, it was not the only resolution on Burundi that had been tabled. The PS Group had tabled a resolution before the majority resolution that will be adopted today. During a first debate in committee, the question was already asked as to which resolution we should take as the basis for the discussion. It would normally be expected that the first motion for a resolution will be taken as a basis for discussion. However, the majority refused to do so and insisted on discussing the majority resolution first. The opposition, as constructive as we are, agreed to this, but we asked for a certain openness and appreciation for the opposition groups who have spent their time in the process. However, this openness has not been achieved. That's too bad. It is not the first time I have said that, but it is the first time during this legislature. I note that a number of majority parties in the Committee on External Relations adopt a rather unconstructive attitude. I have been in Parliament since 2007, and this is the first time I have experienced this. I do not yet draw any conclusions, but I would like to draw attention to this practice. It is a rather closed way of working, in which, for example, opposition amendments were not judged on their content and merits, but purely on the fact that they come from the opposition. And so, Mrs Claerhout of the CD&V, there have been missed opportunities to make that resolution stronger. I see Mr Flahaux shaking no, but it is clearly stated in the report. This resolution, this signal to Burundi, could have been stronger if it had shown the openness of some of the opposition's comments. These were not questionable, diplomatically problematic comments or amendments, but a number of intellectual arguments and elements that could have been added to the text. The majority also tabled amendments, but they were not fully justified. Mrs Claerhout has said six times to justify her amendment: Mr President, it is an update. The seriousness with which the opposition has dealt with this process has been countless times higher than the seriousness with which the majority has acted here. I believe that parliamentary initiatives should be rewarded and that there should be openness from the majority parties. Moreover, we have been so gallant from the opposition to table our amendments not during the sitting itself, but a few days before. You were given a week to look at everything in substance and therefore the excuse is not that you would not have had the time to evaluate everything. 37 amendments were tabled, 12 of the majority and 25 of the opposition, 16 of which were tabled by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. There have been two problems, namely that the opposition was the first to table a number of amendments, but that the majority ricocheted them out later with almost exactly the same amendments. Mrs Capoen, you will confirm that it was a rather ridiculous spectacle. It was Parliament at its smallest. In a first amendment, Amendment No 1, Amendment No 1, Amendment No 1, Amendment No 1, Amendment No 1, Amendment No 1, Amendment No 1, Amendment No 1, Amendment No 1, Amendment No 1, Amendment No 1, Amendment No 1, Amendment No 1, Amendment No 1, Amendment No 1, Amendment No 1, Amendment No 1, Amendment No 1, Amendment No 1, Amendment No 1, Amendment No 1, Amendment No 1, Amendment No 1, Amendment No 1, Amendment No 1, Amendment No 1, Amendment No 1, Amendment No 1, Amendment No 1, Amendment No 1, Amendment No 1, Amendment No 1, Amendment No 1, This matter has not been included in the resolution, but it is important to understand the situation in Burundi. Our amendment was voted down in order to see the same amendment tabled by the majority adopted. The same goes for another amendment. We referred to the statement by the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Didier Reynders, in which he called on the Burundian Government to carry out a thorough investigation into the events in Cibitoke. He asked that possible perpetrators of human rights violations be brought before the Burundian court. This is a useful message, but our amendment was voted down. After that, the same amendment was adopted, with the difference that the signatories were not the opposition groups but the majority. I do know this happens every now and then in this house. However, I have rarely experienced this in such a systematic, small way in committee. I could give some examples, but I will not do so. Ladies and gentlemen, I also have examples of useful opposition amendments which were rejected briefly, although they could have strengthened the text. I refer to Amendment No 1, tabled by Mr Lalor and others on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. 2 of myself and Mr Benoit Hellings, with whom we wanted to introduce a passage, referring to the visit of the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister for Development Cooperation. In the press release sent out by both ministers, Belgium drew attention to greater inclusiveness, participation in public life, the importance of election observation and the separation between the judiciary and the executive. It seemed important to me that this should be included in the text, but that has not happened. In Amendment No. 4 We refer to a number of international agreements, existing partnerships between Burundi, our country and the European Union, such as the Cotonou Agreement, its own constitution, the African charter on democracy, elections and governance, and on human rights and of peoples. They are important because they contain a number of human rights clauses and have sought to enforce a number of guarantees regarding respect for human rights. I will close my speech, but I had to get that off my chest. We could have conducted that process in a much more constructive and intellectually correct way. I hope from the bottom of my heart that this will not happen again when we discuss subsequent resolutions or dossiers. I would say: appreciate an opposition that wants to do its job and table those amendments. The PS Group had tabled this resolution first. We agreed that the majority resolution tabled later would be adopted as a basic text, but at that time we asked for a piece of openness. We have not achieved this openness. Unfortunately, we have to learn lessons from this.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-26-54-plenair-ip036x.u80	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The meeting's over. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-26-54-plenair-ip036x.u81	The vote on the amendments that have been tabled and on the whole of the proposal will take place later. The vote on the reserved amendments and on the whole proposal will take place at a later stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-26-54-plenair-ip036x.u82	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-26-54-plenair-ip036x.u83	Mr President, I refer to my written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-26-54-plenair-ip036x.u84	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-26-54-plenair-ip036x.u85	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (887/1) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (887/1) The draft law has two articles. The bill has two articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-26-54-plenair-ip036x.u86	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-26-54-plenair-ip036x.u87	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-26-54-plenair-ip036x.u88	Mr President, I refer to my written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-26-54-plenair-ip036x.u89	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the bill before us today on behalf of the government is of factual importance, in our view, to ensure the best possible functioning of the International Research Service and the greatest possible efficiency in relations with the Federal Archives of the Federal Republic of Germany. Ladies and gentlemen, in addition to this very concrete aspect, I would like to stress two points. The first is the whole problem of stolen goods, goods that were stolen from individuals and families, for the most part of Jewish origin, who were deported, placed in labour camps or transit camps, before being transported to extermination camps, all of which were located in countries of Eastern Europe, where the Jewish population was the largest. A whole process of restitution of personal property, valuables and works of art was subsequently carried out, painfully, over the years. When I examined the bill in committee, I asked whether the archives of the International Research Service in Bad Arolsen could contribute to the identification and restitution of property, where such restitution was possible. To that question, the minister had answered in the affirmative, which I was pleased to hear. My second point, Mr President, is more related - dear Mr Cheron, you who are historians - to the duty of memory. When we look at the information brochure published by the General Archives of the Kingdom and the State Archives in the Provinces about Bad Arolsen, we learn that the digital archives of the International Research Service consist in fact of a vast mass of documents with multiple sources. They were collected or copied for nearly half a century in order to identify and search for the victims of Nazism: missing persons, deported or displaced. The digital copy contains some 80 million images, including 18 million for labour camps and concentration camps. Just the files of the names of people contain some 42 million scanned images. Now – and on this point I wanted to stress, ladies and gentlemen – the origins of this colossal file date back to 1945. This means, even if the file was subsequently completed with search requests, that the vast part of these documents come from the general administration, from the Nazi administration itself. It contains the Gestapo's prison records, lists of persons carried in a convoy or lists of the names of those, whatever their age, who entered the camps and died there. These documents are of course memory bearing but, given their administrative nature, they add to this memory a dimension that we cannot fail to grasp, assuming that we can understand something to the horror of what happened. This dimension, ladies and gentlemen, is the organized side, the administered side, the thoughtful, rational side of the Shoah. Not only were the crimes carried out, but they were registered, listed, administratively identifiable and attributable to a functional authority responsible for the search for the Jews, the search for the Gypsies and other persons considered to be Untermenschen. The convoy of these, the maintenance, the stewardship necessary for extermination, everything can be found. This reality that the archives in question make so tangible is an absolute scandal for reason. The extermination was not accomplished only by barbarians. It was accomplished by a highly developed country. I will conclude by recalling an astonishment on this subject, which Hannah Arendt said in The Origins of Totalitarianism. His writings add, in my view, an additional dimension to the surprising administrative mobilization that characterizes Nazi politics. Hannah Arendt writes: "It is not only the non-utilitarian nature of the camps themselves, the absurdity of punishing completely innocent people, the impotence of extracting useful work from them in certain conditions of life, the futility of terrorizing an already completely submissive population. This is not what gives these camps their special and disturbing quality, but their anti-utilitarian function, the fact that even priority emergencies of military activities could not interfere with these policies. It all happened as if the management of these extermination plants was more important to the Nazis than winning the war." The archives concerned, ladies and gentlemen, must be able to tell future generations everything they contain hidden truths. That is why, Minister, the MR Group will vote on this historically important text. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-26-54-plenair-ip036x.u90	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-26-54-plenair-ip036x.u91	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (900/1) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (900/1) The draft law has 3 articles. The bill has three articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-26-54-plenair-ip036x.u92	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-26-54-plenair-ip036x.u93	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Benoît Friart, Bert Wollants, Leen Dierick, Frank Wilrycx
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-26-54-plenair-ip036x.u94	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-26-54-plenair-ip036x.u95	Mr President, I refer to the report.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-26-54-plenair-ip036x.u96	Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-26-54-plenair-ip036x.u97	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (974/3) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (974/3) The bill has 3 articles. The bill has 3 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-26-54-plenair-ip036x.u98	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-26-54-plenair-ip036x.u99	Without report Not related
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-26-54-plenair-ip036x.u100	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-26-54-plenair-ip036x.u101	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (859/1) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (859/1) The proposal of the Rules of Procedure consists of 8 articles. The proposal for a Rules of Procedure contains 8 rules. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-26-54-plenair-ip036x.u102	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-26-54-plenair-ip036x.u103	The next item is the secret ballot for the appointment of a councillor in the Court of Auditors (Dutch Chamber). The next item is the election to appoint an adviser to the Court of Auditors (Netherlands Chamber). The applications were announced at the plenary session of 12 March 2015. Nominations were announced in plenary on 12 March 2015. The Sub-Committee "Rekenhof' heard all candidates on 24 March 2015. The Chair of the Subcommittee reported on this hearing at the Conference of Presidents of 25 March 2015. The Sub-Committee on the Court of Auditors heard all the candidates on 24 March 2015. The Chairman of the Sub-Committee reported on these hearings to the Conference of Presidents on 25 March 2015. The document containing the names of the candidates has been distributed (Doc. 985/1). The document bearing the names of the candidates has been circulated to you (No. 985/1). The ballots have already been distributed. Ballot papers have already been distributed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-26-54-plenair-ip036x.u104	Mr President, I would like to ask for additional votes this afternoon and I will explain it to myself. But to do that, I would like to see a government representation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-26-54-plenair-ip036x.u105	You're right. Ladies and gentlemen, may I draw your attention to Mrs Onkelinx.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-26-54-plenair-ip036x.u106	Mr President, after an amorphous period, empty of projects, the majority launched the turbo around three projects that were voted in committee and not any other bills, bills that justify the government's reputation, namely the government of injustice. Two of these projects could already be on the agenda next week, namely the draft law on registry fees, which exponentially increases fees for access to justice, and the index jump project, the so-called employment promotion project, which also organizes a 2% tax on the income of workers, families, pensioners and other social beneficiaries. On this last draft, ladies and gentlemen, the government has asked for urgency without any justification. The very fact that the majority, like one man, voted for urgency has restricted the right of parliamentarians to a calm discussion around a major project for our people. We have therefore decided, in order to prepare a debate which should be a substantive debate in plenary, to table amendments. These amendments were forwarded, Mr. Speaker, to the Registry of the House. On behalf of most of the members of the opposition, I have the honour to ask, whether it be the "aust d'index" bill or the "rights of registry" bill, for the advice of the Council of State. This will allow for an informed debate by the High Chamber and will demonstrate, I hope, the injustice of the draft and the unconstitutionality of some of its provisions. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-26-54-plenair-ip036x.u107	Mr President, on the same subject, you will recall last Thursday's debate on the urgent request for a very ill-appointed text to promote employment, because this text will rather destroy employment. The majority then justified the urgency of this text by referring to the threat of indexation of certain wages in certain sectors for 200 000 workers on 1 April. In the meantime, the emergency is no longer an emergency, according to the information given to us by the Minister for Employment yesterday. It's a shame to find out so late. An opportunity was then given to the majority to proceed in the order concerning a social matter, i.e. with hearings, with real consultation, with a request for an opinion from the National Labour Council. Once again, we had to see yesterday that if the majority had included the term "social concertation" a large number of times in the government agreement, it was not ready to implement it. We regret this because it has important consequences for the functioning of our economy. Over the past two weeks, we have conducted a long, substantive debate with counter-proposals on the main issue of index jumping. This issue is likely to be discussed next week in plenary and will require lengthy discussion. We have resubmitted the amendments to this text in the hands of the Clerk, whose analysis we request from the Council of State in order to be able to debate in full knowledge of the substance of the alternatives to this decision to skip the index which is not economically efficient and which is socially unjust. We therefore hope that as many of our colleagues will support this request for an opinion to the Council of State on the three amendments tabled by the Ecolo-Groen Group on this text.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-26-54-plenair-ip036x.u108	Mr President, the sp.a also joins the previous speakers. We have tried to demonstrate in committee that the measure that this government wants to take, the index jump, is not a good thing. We have discussed it very widely and for a long time. Even worse, however, this majority has shown no respect for the social partners, while the majority is using the argument of the social partners too often. From the opposition, therefore, we are asking for the opinion of the Council of State.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-26-54-plenair-ip036x.u109	Mr President, as a government and as a majority, you have decided to skip the index. You chose to go into force, in particular by ignoring the social partners, when you had ample time to consult the National Labour Council. This text dates back to 3 March. You justify this by invoking the competitiveness of companies, even though major employers and economists believe that, in the present circumstances, it will be counterproductive. These same bosses and unions demand different and more extensive measures in terms of job creation and support for the competitiveness of companies – whether in terms of reducing social contributions, corporate tax, energy costs or reinvestment in research and development. You have also decided to make an index jump on social benefits, which are nevertheless the responsibility of the Communities since the sixth reform of the State. As I explained in committee, the Council of State did not have the opportunity to examine the federal jurisdiction in this area, since the original bill did not cover these social benefits. You added that after this body had given its opinion. We have therefore, Mr President, tabled amendments with Mrs La Grafière. We call for them to be submitted to the Council of State. The aim is to clarify the situation. Since this text will have a considerable impact on citizens, families and even children, it is important to examine the distribution of competences and to work in a serious and rigorous manner.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-26-54-plenair-ip036x.u110	Mr. Chairman, a week ago, Minister Peeters came to us to ask for urgency by using more alarmist arguments. The index jump had to be rushed through. There was no more time for social consultation. There was no more time for debate. There was no more time for experts. Everything had to go very quickly. And then this week, in committee, everything is deflating. Finally, there is the impression that there is no longer any argument for urgency. So, I will make it clear, if the government's goal here is to be able to quickly bypass the parliamentary debate so that we can break a continuing social movement in the egg – I say it goes on! – to be present, the embers are still hot... The trade union actions are still ongoing, next Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday and last week in Antwerp. The social movement still does not agree with your measures. The social movement is still present. Mr President, if it is the intention of the government and the majority parties to push this forward, it will not work. For this reason, our party, together with the other opposition parties, has tabled two amendments and we would ask the Council of State to take the time to look at them so that we can have a more serene debate in this House.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-26-54-plenair-ip036x.u111	Ladies and gentlemen, I take note of the request for advice from the Council of State. I think we can deal with all these questions together. I would point out that 50 Members are sufficient to ask for this opinion. May I ask who supports the request for advice from the Council of State is now in a state of law?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-26-54-plenair-ip036x.u112	More than 50 members supported the request for advice.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-26-54-plenair-ip036x.u113	Colleagues, the issue was also the appointment of the members of the supervisory body on police information. In agreement with a number of political groups, this vote will be postponed until next week. So leave the appointment of a counselor at the Court of Auditors. Since the vote is secret, the ballots must not be signed. Due to the secret nature of the ballot, ballot papers cannot be signed. First we have to put together one or two desks of voters by drawing lots. Each bureau shall be composed of four members. I propose, however, that the last two Members who have taken their seats at the Bureau today should be nominated for the vote. We must first draw lots from one or two offices of deputy returning officers, each composed of four members, who will be responsible for the counting. I suggest, however, that you appoint the two youngest members who sit on the bureau this day to take the ballot. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Ladies Nawal Ben Hamou and Yoleen Van Camp are appointed to record the votes. Ms. Nawal Ben Hamou and Ms. Yoleen Van Camp were appointed to vote. I suggest that the ballots be counted in the conference room, in the presence of the voters. I suggest that you proceed with the counting of the vote in the Conference Hall, in the presence of the deputy returning officers. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. I would ask every Member to put his unsigned ballot paper in the ballot box when calling his name. Please come along my left side to the speaker's seat and leave it on my right side. Upon the call of his or her name, each member is requested to submit his or her unsigned ballot in the ballot box, going up to the gallery from my left to my right. I would point out that the votes cast are invalid on more than one candidate per mandate. I would remind you that the votes cast in favour of more than one candidate per term are invalid. I invite the secretaries to call from the names. I invite the secretaries to make the roll call.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-26-54-plenair-ip036x.u114	Did everyone vote? Did everyone put their ballot in the ballot box? I declare the vote closed. I invite the voters to proceed to the vote. I declare the ballot closed and invite the deputy returning officers to proceed with the counting. The meeting was suspended. The meeting is adjourned.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-26-54-plenair-ip036x.u115	The meeting was resumed. The sitting has resumed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-26-54-plenair-ip036x.u116	Votes 135 Votants Blank or invalid 2............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. White or invalid Valid 133 Valables Perfect majority 67 Absolute majority Mrs Hilde François received 131 votes. Mrs Hilde François obtained 131 votes. Mr Marc Galle received one vote. Mr. Marc Galle obtained 1 vote. Mr Herman Matthijs received 0 votes. Mr Herman Matthijs obtained 0 votes. Mrs Karin Staes received 0 votes. Mrs Karin Staes won 0 votes. Mrs Veerle Straetemans received 0 votes. Mrs Veerle Straetemans obtained 0 votes. Mr Marc Van Hoeymissen received one vote. Mr. Marc Van Hoeymissen obtained 1 vote. Mr Rik Verlinde received 0 votes. Mr. Rik Verlinde obtained 0 votes. Since Mrs Hilde François received 131 votes, this is the absolute majority, she is appointed councilor in the Court of Auditors (Dutch Chamber). Ms Hilde François, who had obtained 131 votes, i.e. an absolute majority, was appointed an adviser to the Court of Auditors (Netherlands Chamber).
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-26-54-plenair-ip036x.u117	By letter of 18 March 2015, the Attorney General shall send a file to the Court of Appeal in Liège to enable the Chamber to allow, in application of Article 59 of the Constitution, any prosecutions against one of our colleagues. By letter dated 18 March 2015, the Attorney General of the Liège Court of Appeal provided a case file in order to enable the Chamber to possibly authorize prosecution by one of our colleagues under Article 59 of the Constitution. In accordance with Rule 160 of the Rules of Procedure, the documents shall be sent to the Commission for the Prosecutions. In accordance with Rule 160 of the Rules of Procedure, the documents are referred to the Prosecution Committee. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-26-54-plenair-ip036x.u118	I propose the legislative proposal of Mr Willy Demeyer, Mrs Karine Lalieux and Mr Özlem Özen and Mr Eric Massin supplementing the law of 24 February 1921 on the marketing of toxins, sleeping agents and narcotics, psychotropic substances, disinfectants and antiseptics and substances which may be used for the illicit manufacture of narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances, with a view to the legal recognition of assisted treatment with diacetylmorphine (no. 260/1) refer to the Committee on Justice in order to add it to the legislative proposal of Mr Willy Demeyer, Mrs Karine Lalieux and Mr Özlem Özen and Mr Eric Massin supplementing the Law of 24 February 1921 on the marketing of toxins, sleepers and narcotics, psychotropic substances, disinfectants and antiseptics and substances which may be used for the illicit manufacture of narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances, with a view to the legal recognition of controlled consumer areas for drug users (No. 259/1)..........................................[........................................................................................[............................................................................................................................................................................... I propose that you refer to the Committee on Justice the bill of Mr Willy Demeyer, Mrs Karine Lalieux and Mrs Özlem Özen and Mr Eric Massin supplementing the Act of 24 February 1921 concerning the trafficking of poisonous, soporific, astounding, psychotropic, disinfectant or antiseptic substances and substances which may be used for the illicit manufacture of narcotic and psychotropic substances, aiming at the legal recognition of the treatment assisted by diacetylmorphine (No 260/1) in order to attach it to the bill of Mr Willy Demeyer, Mrs Karine Lalieux and Mrs Özlem Özen and Mr Eric Massin supplementing the Act of 24 February 1921 concerning the trafficking of poisonous, soporific, narcotic, psychotropic, disinfectant or antiseptic substances and substances which may be used for the illicit manufacture of narcotic and psychotropic substances, aiming at the legal recognition of supervised places of use for drug users (No 259/1). This proposal was previously sent to the Committee on Health, the Environment and Social Renewal. This proposal had previously been referred to the Committee on Public Health, the Environment and the Renewal of the Society. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-26-54-plenair-ip036x.u119	The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. If there is no objection, I consider them to be adopted; in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals will be sent to the committees responsible. If there are no comments on this subject, I will take it into account as a matter of fact and refer the proposals back to the relevant committees in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 25 March 2015, I also propose to you the motion for a resolution (Mrs Karolien Grosemans cs) on the future of Defence, No. 988/1, to be considered.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-26-54-plenair-ip036x.u120	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 25 March 2015, I also propose that you take into account the motion for a resolution (Ms Karolien Grosemans et al.) on the future of defence, No 988/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-26-54-plenair-ip036x.u121	Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-26-54-plenair-ip036x.u122	Mr President, I would like to ask the urgency of the motion for a resolution No. 988/1. It contains recommendations to the Minister of Defence in the context of the formulation of his strategic plan. It is, of course, best that these recommendations are made before the plan is completed. That's why I'm asking for emergency treatment.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-26-54-plenair-ip036x.u123	Ladies and gentlemen, we are standing by and expressing the urgency of the matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-26-54-plenair-ip036x.u124	This interview was held at the public meeting of the Finance and Budget Commission of 18 March 2015. This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the Finance and Budget Committee on 18 March 2015. Two motions were tabled (MOT n° 026/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mr Dirk Van der Maelen; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr Roel Deseyn and Robert Van de Velde. Two motions were tabled (MOT nr. 026/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr. Dirk Van der Maelen; - a simple motion was tabled by Messrs. Roel Deseyn et Robert Van de Velde. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-26-54-plenair-ip036x.u125	Mr President, it is the first time in the twenty-five years I have been in Parliament that I have had an interplay. I have come to this chair because I have never experienced what I have experienced in this matter before. Let me explain this briefly. In September 2010, following a proposal by State Secretary Carl Devlaemkamerbreed, a law will be adopted which provides that if a Belgian company makes capital transfers to a company established in a fiscal paradise, or in a country on a list drawn up by the OECD, those capital movements must be reported to the tax authorities. That's the law, it's as simple as that. On 16 December 2014, I ask the Minister of Finance whether this 2010 law applies to the OECD list of countries. The Minister responds in the affirmative and promises that he will publish a circular letter. I'm waiting. As I do not hear anything, I will come back to the Finance Committee on 18 March 2015. I ask the Minister about his promise to implement the law with a circular letter. Where's the letter? What's the Minister's answer? He argued that he could not draw up that circular because the country concerned, Luxembourg, had protested against the fact that it was on that list. Ladies and gentlemen, I know that in this house, unfortunately, there is a habit of approving simple motions almost on autopilot. I would ask you not to do it this time, because if you do, you will forsake your constitutional duty. Article 108 of our Constitution clearly states that the King is referred to here as the government and the ministers implementing the laws. However, this Minister of Finance refuses to implement the 2010 Act. The wording of the 2010 law leaves no room for interpretation, yet the Finance Minister refuses to implement it. Secondly, the credibility of Parliament and of every Member who said last year, when LuxLeaks broke out, that this cannot be done is at stake. The information we can obtain through this law allows us to distinguish between the chaff and the chaff in the movement of capital to Luxembourg. On the basis of data mining, we will be able to examine the suspect files. If you want to enforce all the expensive oaths that were sworn last year after LuxLeaks, if you want the fraud to be dealt with, if you want the avoidance to be dealt with via Luxembourg, then you will not be able to approve the simple motion. I call upon you not to approve them. The credibility, both of Parliament and of yourself, is at stake. A minister in a parliamentary democracy must respect the Constitution. If the law is clear, he must execute it!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-26-54-plenair-ip036x.u126	Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check his voice? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 78 Yes No. 57 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 135 Total The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses. The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-26-54-plenair-ip036x.u127	The Government requested urgent treatment under Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure when submitting the draft law establishing the maximum margin for labour cost development for the years 2015 and 2016 (No. 987/1). The government called for urgency in accordance with Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure when the bill introducing the maximum margin for the evolution of the salary cost for the years 2015 and 2016 (No. 987/1). I would suggest that we speak on this question. I propose that we take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-26-54-plenair-ip036x.u128	Ladies and gentlemen of the majority, in view of what has happened in the last few days - the emergencies requested, forgotten, and then it was no longer urgent - I hope that, if you vote the urgency now, you will consider it always urgent in a few days and in a week. And I hope that you will remember the texts for which you asked for urgency, because, frankly, the saga of pseudo-emergency or relative emergencies has lasted long enough, if I may!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-26-54-plenair-ip036x.u129	Vote on Amendment No 38 of Stéphane Crusnière cs to insert recital B/1 (n). (722/8) Vote on Amendment No 38 by Stéphane Crusnière cs to insert a recital B/1 (n). (722/8) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 2) Yes 54 Yes No. 77 No Abstentions 3 Abstensions Total 134 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 43 of Stéphane Crusnière cs to insert recital B/1 (n). (722/8) Vote on Amendment No 43 by Stéphane Crusnière cs to insert a recital B/1 (n). (722/8) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 3) Yes 132 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 3 Abstensions Total 135 Total Consequently, the amendment was adopted and inserted under recital C. Accordingly, the amendment was adopted and inserted under a new recital C. Therefore, recitals C to Q are converted into recitals D to R. Therefore, recitals C to Q are renamed in recitals D to R. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 44 by Wouter De Vriendt cs to insert a recital R (n). (722/9) Vote on amendment No 44 by Wouter De Vriendt cs to insert a recital R (n). (722/9) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 54 Yes No. 79 No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 135 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Stemming over amendment nr. 39 van Stéphane Crusnière cs op punt 6. (722/8) Vote on Amendment No 39 by Stéphane Crusnière cs in point 6. (722/8) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 5) Yes 53 Yes No. 79 No Abstentions 3 Abstensions Total 135 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 40 by Stéphane Crusnière cs to insert a point 6/1 (n). (722/8) Vote on Amendment No 40 by Stéphane Crusnière cs to insert a point 6/1 (n). (722/8) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-26-54-plenair-ip036x.u130	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Stemming over amendment nr. 41 van Stéphane Crusnière cs op punt 12. (722/8) Vote on Amendment No 41 by Stéphane Crusnière cs in point 12. (722/8) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-26-54-plenair-ip036x.u131	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 42 of Stéphane Crusnière cs to insert a point 20/1 (n). (722/8) Vote on Amendment No 42 by Stéphane Crusnière cs to insert a point 20/1 (n). (722/8) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-26-54-plenair-ip036x.u132	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 45 by Wouter De Vriendt cs to insert a point 23/1 (n). (722/9) Vote on amendment No 45 by Wouter De Vriendt cs to insert a point 23/1 (n). (722/9) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 6) Yes [[55]] Yes No. 79 No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 136 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-26-54-plenair-ip036x.u133	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-26-54-plenair-ip036x.u134	Mr President, I wanted to justify my vote. I regret that some basic amendments have once again been rejected here by the majority. If my group supports this text, I shall abstain.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-26-54-plenair-ip036x.u135	Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 7) Yes 133 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 3 Abstensions Total 136 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the motion for a resolution. It will be notified to the government. (722/10) Accordingly, the House adopted the motion for a resolution. This will be made known to the government. (722/10) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[No]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-26-54-plenair-ip036x.u136	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 8) Yes 135 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 136 Total As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (887/4) Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (887/4) Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-26-54-plenair-ip036x.u137	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 9) Yes 135 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 135 Total As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (900/4) Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (900/4)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-26-54-plenair-ip036x.u138	Mr President, I voted in favour of the draft resolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-26-54-plenair-ip036x.u139	Of which act.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-26-54-plenair-ip036x.u140	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 10) Yes 134 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 136 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft. (974/4) Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a draft for Royal Assent. (974/4) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-26-54-plenair-ip036x.u141	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 11) Yes 133 Yes No. 2............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 136 Total Consequently, the Chamber shall adopt its rules of procedure. (859/2) Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the rules of procedure. (859/2) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-26-54-plenair-ip036x.u142	We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for next week's meetings. We need to approve the agenda for next week's sittings. We will meet on Wednesday at 10 a.m. and 2.15 p.m. The meeting could be renewed at 6.05 p.m. Thursday 2 April 2015 we may meet at 10 a.m. and at 2.15 p.m. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Wednesday 1 April 2015 at 10 a.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Wednesday, April 1, 2015 at 10.00 a.m.
