ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-15-54-commissie-ic294x.u1	Madam President, Minister, there appears to be a link between hyperactivity in children and six colouring agents in candy, cakes and soft drinks. Since 2010, the Dutch company Albert Heijn has been restoring these colours from its own brands and it is now asking other suppliers to do the same. You are already collecting a tax on sugary soft drinks and alcopops and you are thus trying to give a signal to the food industry to intervene in the area of sugars. Do you have the same plans for dyes? What is the state of play with regard to sugar negotiations with the sector? Will you encourage suppliers to take the same actions as Albert Heijn?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-15-54-commissie-ic294x.u2	Madam President, Mrs Dedry, we are currently working on the adaptation of foodstuffs to the Belgian market by improving their nutritional value. This means, in concrete terms, reducing the content of added sugars and fats, but also improving the quality of the products by improving the quality of the carbohydrates and fats present and increasing the content of fibres and micronutrients. As you know, the Working Party on Energy Reduction of the FPS Health is working on this. Representatives of the food industry and its sub-sectors, large-scale distribution, catering organisations, consumer representatives and scientific teachers are part of that working group. The intention is to achieve a formal commitment by the operators concerned. The meeting's on. I also have discussions with certain actors in the industry. It will continue. As regards colours, several of them have been subject to stricter conditions of use since 1 June 2013. These are in line with the recent re-evaluations of the European Food Safety Authority, EFSA, and safe for the consumer. The mandatory warning on the label is there to allow consumers to make their own choice. We must keep an eye on new things, but I believe that the industry has understood this and that there are no strangely coloured cases. We'll stay vigilant.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-15-54-commissie-ic294x.u3	A short question, Madam Secretary. When will the agreements with the sector be concluded?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-15-54-commissie-ic294x.u4	We are doing our best to get all these people around the table, but I am often in Parliament. Then I can't do it. We try to continue working, even within the FOD. Of course, that doesn't happen all the time. This calls for a lot of consultation. We expect a lot of input from the sector, and they want to give it, but we need to give those people time to look at things. We're working on it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-15-54-commissie-ic294x.u5	Therefore, no time limit can be given at this time.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-15-54-commissie-ic294x.u6	Madam Minister, I tabled this question following the update of the 2004 clinical directive by the KCE on the follow-up of low-risk pregnant women. The new directive does not recommend studies which do not clearly offer greater advantages than disadvantages for mother and child. The KCE thus also agrees with the findings advocated by the WHO in the past, and thus advocates a demedicalisation of pregnancy. Madam Secretary, I was wondering whether the findings of the KCE study would be followed up. Will the number of ultrasounds during pregnancy be reduced to two? Is there no longer systematic CMV testing? In that light I also wondered how much the cost of an ultrasound for the RIZIV is and how much a CMV test costs. How many women would have a change if it were implemented? What are the savings potential of this? When, if there are changes, will they actually take effect?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-15-54-commissie-ic294x.u7	Madam Minister, I also refer in my question to the recent opinion of the High Health Council and I also wonder which recommendations you will adopt. I myself have taken out two elements that can be implemented federally, because a number of opinions do not relate to the federal level. One of the recommendations of the High Health Council is that there should be more research into better screening methods in children. The Supreme Health Council also gives the example of another test. Madam Secretary, how do you feel about that? According to the High Health Council, institutions such as the WIV and the Occupational Diseases Fund should contribute to the collection of reliable epidemiological data. Madam Secretary, do you like that recommendation? What will you do with that?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-15-54-commissie-ic294x.u8	Mrs Van Camp, Mrs Dedry, in the KCE report to which you refer, the following is mentioned: The evidence for this recommendation is weak, according to the report, but the argument is that ultrasound can be useful after 24 weeks for determining the location of the baby and detecting signs of disease such as placenta praevia, intrauterine growth retardation and macrosomy. No action is therefore being taken at present to stop recovering ultrasound during the third trimester of pregnancy. The fee for an ultrasound for monitoring a normal pregnancy is 26.59 euros. The patient without a preferential arrangement will receive a refund of 24.11 euros. Mrs Van Camp, for the overall expenditure for these ultrasounds from 2008 to 2010, I will give you a clear table. At present no additional measures have been taken to remove the reimbursement of the serology related to cytomegalovirus in the nomenclature. The financing of clinical biology in Belgium has been largely forfaitarised and the compensation for the detection of IgM and IgG against cytomegaly amounts to 2.45 euros and 2.04 euros respectively for the part per treatment that is considered to represent 25% of the expenditure. The flat-rate part depends on the value of all clinical biology benefits prescribed for outpatients and is the result of a complex calculation taking into account, in particular, the condition for patients admitted to hospital. Consequently, it is almost impossible to assess the flat-rate part of the expenditure specifically related to cytomegaly screening individually. Expenditure per treatment on the detection of IgM and IgG against cytomegalovirus amounts to EUR 1.6 million and EUR 1.3 million respectively. Mrs. Van Camp, you're also asking me to stop the BOLO. I would like to point out that I have had cytomegaly positive women a number of times in the 25 years I have been a doctor, and the effects on the foetus are very important. Tough choices may sometimes have to be made if this is determined at the beginning of pregnancy. This will certainly remain necessary. The two recommendations also cited by Mrs Dedry in the opinion of the High Health Council on the problem of cytomegalovirus in pregnant women are well known. Ideally, a screening of cytomegalovirus should be carried out in all newborns so that, as the High Health Council indicates, if there is contamination, therapeutic intervention can be accelerated. There are currently three tests to determine this in a newborn. I will give them to you in writing, otherwise this answer will be far too long. As regards the role of the Occupational Diseases Fund and the Scientific Institute for Public Health, it should be noted that the mission for the reimbursement of removal for prophylactic reasons during pregnancy was transferred to the RIZIV in 2010. Since then, the Occupational Diseases Fund has been responsible for carrying out a statistical analysis of forms indicating the context and reason for the removal and sent by the occupational physician or employer. The implementation of this new task can and will still be optimised, which is currently being examined by the Occupational Diseases Fund. For example, there are measures to assess the reliability and representativeness of the data received. The report of the High Health Council states that it is prohibited for pregnant workers to engage in activities where they may be at risk of exposure to cytomegaly. These preventive measures must also be socially responsible. Therefore, Article 42 of the Work Act of 16 March 1971 states that preference should be given to the adaptation of the work post rather than a systematic removal of the work. Prior to 2010, the removal was only granted after a negative immunity test. In order to pursue a uniform approach to this problem, the question related to the publication of clear guidelines for occupational medicine will be put to the Committee on Medical Supervision of Co-Prev. This is an association representing all recognized external services for prevention and protection at work in Belgium. During the recent guidance committee of the Monitoring Laboratory of the Scientific Institute for Public Health of 25 November 2015, it was decided to request the annual data on laboratory congenital infections, including CMV. This will allow the Scientific Institute to obtain an image of this infectious disease and possibly follow the annual trend. The data will be collected after the end of the 2015 activity year. There is therefore still a great deal to be done. Mrs Van Camp, I will give you the table of the figures.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-15-54-commissie-ic294x.u9	Madam Minister, that is good news, especially as regards the collection of that data. I suppose they will also be made available to the public in an annual report or on a website.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-15-54-commissie-ic294x.u10	(...) I will pass on the information on those tests in writing, because it is really technical. It's about the three different tests that can happen on the blood of newborns.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-15-54-commissie-ic294x.u11	This will be sent to the secretariat of the commission and consulted by the members.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-15-54-commissie-ic294x.u12	Question No 6557 by Miss Yoleen Van Camp is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-15-54-commissie-ic294x.u13	Mrs. Thoron can't join us.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-15-54-commissie-ic294x.u14	Madam President, I will confine myself to the most recent question, because I have heard in the meantime that the NIPT would only be repaid if implemented in centres of genetics. We were wondering what the arguments were for that. Madam Secretary, we doubt whether the proposal is supported by gynecologists. There are specific and complex conditions that allow a test to be prescribed only in consultation with a genetics centre. We fear that this will raise the threshold for NIPT and that the measure will be at the expense of the pregnant women themselves. Do you agree that the NIPT is a routine DNA test that should be performed on somatic DNA and should therefore be generalised? Paying the VoorZorg, DKV and Partena the NIPT generalised back? If so, do you have any idea how many members have already appealed to it? Finally, what amount of refund is taken into account by your services to repay the NIPT? How much brake money will still have to be paid by the category with an increased concession and without an increased concession?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-15-54-commissie-ic294x.u15	Mrs. Van Camp, all women who wish to do so can have the risk of trisomy 21, so Down's syndrome, of their baby determined by a blood test and an ultrasound. If there is an increased risk, the diagnosis is confirmed or contradicted by an invasive test. The NIPT is a relatively new blood test that is more sensitive and precise than the classic tests. The Knowledge Centre is investigating two possible scenarios to introduce a NIPT: firstly, a NIPT in the first line to replace the current screening with a blood sample at 16 weeks; secondly, a NIPT in the second line, after the current screening test through blood and ultrasound has shown an increased risk. This is therefore a second-line test for patients at risk. Both scenarios are being examined. I believe that this will provide a better and more precise screening compared to what is happening now. In this way we can also avoid the invasive tests. After all, these tests provoke a number of miscarriages every year. The first option with the NIPT as a first-line screening test is preferable, not only because it would reduce the number of invasive tests, but also because a false negative result, whereby a pregnancy of a foetus with trisomy 21 would escape the analysis, would less occur. Since the costs of the NIPT were still very high until recently, the KCE recommended not to reimburse the NIPT in the second option, i.e. after triage with the combined test. In that model, approximately 10% of pregnant women would be eligible for a refund of non-invasive prenatal trisomy screening. At the request of the Technical Medical Council, the Insurance Committee of the RIZIV informed me of a proposal to that effect. Provided that the price of NIPT falls substantially and sufficient quality guarantees, the KCE recommends the reimbursement of NIPT in option 1 as a screening test for pregnant women. There have also been a number of new elements in the file in recent weeks. There is the coverage of a new version of the test, which turns out to be much cheaper. In addition to the human heritage centres, private laboratories offer the test at a price much lower than the price level mentioned ab initio. All these elements must be considered by the Technical Medical Council of the RIZIV, before we go further in the decision-making process. The quality of these tests, which is different, should also be compared. It is not just about price but also about quality, which guarantees the accuracy of the test and the absence of false negatives and positives. I also consider the aspect of counselling of the pregnant patients involved to be important. They must be given accurate information on the possible consequences of the test. The informed consent is inextricably linked to the test itself, which is a no-brainer for the executive provider. It is not only important to communicate the results to the women or the couples. The subsequent guidance is also important. It is a sensitive and important decision. Consultations in the relevant health insurance advisory bodies are still ongoing and are being concluded. I believe that we can reach a solution in the very near future.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-15-54-commissie-ic294x.u16	I note that the decision has not yet been made. However, I would like to refer to what I outlined in the introduction, namely that serum screening for Down syndrome is already mainly carried out in peripheral laboratories and that a particular private laboratory has carried out most of the tests. Therefore, quality is not an argument in the matter, as often a test contributes to this. A second aspect that needs to be taken into account is accessibility, in addition to the quality and price of the services provided in the ordinary centres. When choosing this or that option, it should be checked whether the gynecologists will participate. I am pleased that the first proposal, that of general screening, is preferable. That's a routine test. I therefore hope that the number of centres in which this happens will be similar.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-15-54-commissie-ic294x.u17	I'd still like to nuance a few things in connection with the routine test. It is important to investigate whether trisomy 21 is present during pregnancy. That may be a routine test, but if trisomy 21 is present, it can have a lot of consequences and future parents will have to make very difficult decisions. So we must not just make the money available for the test. If the test is positive, we must also provide the necessary framework and guidance for women who know they are carrying a child with trisomy 21. It may be a routine test, but the results can have consequences that they can't get over all their lives. So it's really important.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-15-54-commissie-ic294x.u18	That goes just as well for other tests. You were just talking about the CMV test. We can also discuss whether it should be carried out or not. The KCE is not in favour of that. In any case, as soon as the test is taken, I believe that the gynecologist is just as well placed to accompany the pregnant woman and her partner.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-15-54-commissie-ic294x.u19	There's no discussion about that. I never said the gynecologist couldn't guide that. There must be resources for this. Where did you hear me say the gynecologist can't do that?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-15-54-commissie-ic294x.u20	I heard you say that guidance is a specialized matter and I read between the lines that you wanted to indicate that this can only be done in centres for genetics.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-15-54-commissie-ic294x.u21	Mrs. Van Camp, like you, I don't have the habit of saying things between the lines. If I give you an answer, you can quote from it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-15-54-commissie-ic294x.u22	I propose a rereading of the answer with a view to a correct mutual understanding.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-15-54-commissie-ic294x.u23	Madam President, Minister, I had asked a written question about the CVS diagnostic centres and you confirmed in your reply that only the UZ Leuven entered into the new agreement for the CVS diagnostic centres, which finally started effective on 1 April. The centre has therefore been operational for more than six months now. I'm getting reports from the field that the center hasn't been referred to any of the patients yet. In your answer you refer to the number of psychotherapists connected, but do not answer the question of the number of patients already referred to the new center. That is why I have the following questions for you, Madam Secretary. Is it true that no patient has yet been referred, as I understand from the field of work? Therefore, can you confirm that, in principle, since 1 April and indeed since 1 September 2014, no cognitive behavioural therapy sessions have been reimbursed in the context of CVS treatment, since the reimbursement since the creation of the new centres can only take place through treatment in those centres? I receive reports from the field of work that refunds would be claimed without these patients being treated through such centres; hence my question and concern about this. Finally, I asked how many patients are still in a treatment pathway that started before the agreement with the diagnostic centres, the so-called F lists. You replied that you instructed RIZIV to collect that data. When can I expect that? What is the status of the kinesi therapy technical council with the change in nomenclature for a specific scheme for CVS patients?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-15-54-commissie-ic294x.u24	Madam President, Mrs Van Camp, in reply to your question, I can tell you that patients have certainly already been referred to the Multidisciplinary Diagnostic Centre for CVS of the UZ Leuven, which was effectively launched in April 2015. In order to be taken into account in that centre, the patient must, of course, be referred to by his GP. The charge begins in principle with a multidisciplinary diagnostic bilan. From April to the end of September, the Multidisciplinary Diagnostic Centre for CVS of the UZ Leuven completed the multidisciplinary diagnostic bilan for 47 patients. Applications for reimbursement of the bilans shall be dealt with by the College of Physicians at the RIZIV. The College has so far received 23 application files, including the six applications for which the bilan had already been completed by the end of June 2015. It should be borne in mind that reimbursement may be requested up to 30 days after the completion of the multidisciplinary bilan. The center of the UZ Leuven, which examined patients, reports that in the meantime cognitive behavioral therapy sessions are organised by the cognitive behavioral therapists for CVS. You say you receive reports from the field of work that reimbursements are claimed for patients who were not treated in the CVS diagnostic centre. Now, please send us those messages, because the RIZIV really has no knowledge of such complaints. In reply to the various questions on kinesitherapy, I give you the following state of affairs. The number of patients currently receiving treatment under the relevant section of the so-called F list should be requested by the RIZIV from the various insurance institutions. After all, we ourselves have not collected all this data and we must therefore request them from the insurance institutions through the RIZIV. These will collect that data for you and send it to the RIZIV. The RIZIV will put them together and let you know the result. In the context of the work which would lead to a change of nomenclature for the dossier in question, that information was requested two years ago. On the basis of those answers, I'll give you figures from two years ago. It was about a thousand patients. There can be expected to be fewer patients at the moment, as the former agreements with then three reference centres were terminated. The work of the Technical Board for kinesitherapy for the dossier was started after the agreement text with the multidisciplinary diagnostic centres for CVS was adopted. Both organs meet monthly. Given the very complex nature of the dossier, it was also necessary to consult the latest international recommendations of good practice. A proposal for a change of nomenclature has now been prepared by the Technical Board for kinesitherapy. The file will be forwarded to the Convention Commission. That is the logical course of action. First, there is an agreement with the multidisciplinary diagnostic centres. Then they build on it and follow additions with guidelines, best practices and examples from abroad. I'm expecting a breakthrough in the next few months.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-15-54-commissie-ic294x.u25	Madam President, Minister, the psychiatry department of the Saint-Luc University Clinics has recently opened, in collaboration with the Faculty of Psychology of UCL, a clinic for Internet and gambling disorders. Although it treats itself, Internet addiction, which causes isolation and social withdrawal, is not necessarily considered a disease in the common sense of the term. According to the experts, the greatest difficulty is to get people to consult. During the consultation, the therapist, together with the patient, takes stock of his or her situation and analyses his or her motivations to reproduce the behaviour. According to a 2013 study of the CLICK (Compulsive Computer use and Knowledge needs in Belgium) project commissioned by the Federal Science Police, almost 10% of Belgians aged 12 to 17 have problems with the compulsive use of the Internet, of which 3% are serious. This problem would affect 5.5 per cent of adults, of whom 1 per cent are very serious. However, the boundary between clean addiction and relatively traditional abuse among adolescents and young people in general is very narrow. These habits of excessive use affect online video games, chat, social networks or bets on the internet. They can have important consequences for people who suffer from them and their loved ones. Minister, how is Internet addiction different from other types of addiction? What are the current factors that make it possible to establish the boundary between true addiction and excessive consumption? Do you have any recent figures on the number of people with Internet and gambling disorders? The phenomenon would affect young people twice as much, and it would be more worrying. In doing so, should their care be specific? Do young people report for consultation? Do you have figures that can be provided to us? What kind of accompaniment can families benefit from? Collaborations are being developed with clinics abroad, notably in London, Nantes and Geneva. What is the result of these experiments?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-15-54-commissie-ic294x.u26	Mr Blanchart, thank you for your question. It is true that the use of the Internet and its applications by young people and adults is most often without problems. However, the share of users who, after some time, have a problematic use of the Internet should not be underestimated. However, I would like to point out that there is currently no validated definition of an Internet dependency. There are also no diagnostic criteria for Internet addiction or compulsive use of the Internet. Therefore, the definition used in each study must always be carefully analysed. The most recent Belgian figures are those of a 2013 study, the CLICK study. According to the study, 9.5% of young people between the ages of 12 and 17 would have problematic use of the Internet. The study also showed that 11% of young people are problematic players and that 7% would have problems with the use of social media. It is, in my view, clear that the problematic or compulsive use of the Internet cannot be determined by accounting only for the average number of hours on line. There is a cluster of indicators which together give an indication of problematic use. Thus, we must also take into account the way in which the Internet is used and the motivation, because it is simply inconceivable to ignore the Internet and computers in everyday life. It is impossible to promote or require, as with other types of addiction, total abstinence. Therefore, treatment and prevention should focus primarily on responsible or controlled use. Some information is already available to parents to help their children use the Internet responsibly. Studies show that setting time limits does not guarantee non-problematic use. Establishing one-sided arrangements on what can or cannot be done online seems, on the contrary, to be a better method. Nor should the role of schools and teachers be underestimated. As with everything, young people must be encouraged to adopt acceptable behaviour. It is natural that they need the Internet and their computer to study, but they also need to look for other occupations. Even in the case of problematic behaviour, the use of the computer cannot be prohibited. It's impossible, whether it's for students or workers. It is a difficult problem and a real challenge to establish acceptable behaviour that will not penalize young people.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-15-54-commissie-ic294x.u27	Minister, thank you for your answers. Diagnosis of addiction on the computer or on the Internet is necessary for the establishment of a scientific approach to propose solutions. On the other hand, it is not too long to find ways to help families because there is a risk of seeing too late the harmful effects of computer addiction on children in the short, medium and especially long term.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-15-54-commissie-ic294x.u28	Madam Secretary, Belgium is at the top of reproductive medicine. A number of things have already been well settled in our country, but after eight years some articles of the law still appear to be waiting for implementation. Firstly, there is the question of compensation to cover certain costs incurred by donors to prevent donor tourism when one centre would pay much more than the other. Secondly, Article 55 provides for the same donor to be used for no more than six different women. A national register is still missing for this, I believe. That still needs to be put on the verge of checking this out. Now that is not verifiable, certainly not for donor gametes from abroad. Thirdly, Articles 37 to 47 do regulate a number of matters for recognised fertility centres and for hospitals that have an agreement with them, but it is still too easy to proceed to self-insemination or insemination in a commercial private practice via the Internet or abroad. There is also a lack of monitoring in this respect. Fourthly and finally, three years ago, the College of Medicine for the care programme started with Belgian directives, precisely to have its own guidelines on good practices and quality, and to combat over-consumption. These directives seem to have been in the final phase for quite some time, but they are not yet being implemented. Madam Minister, I would like to ask you on all these points whether you are on your way to implementing the law? Will you then execute these points through royal decrees or other articles of law? For what reason is the implementation of the care paths delayed?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-15-54-commissie-ic294x.u29	Mrs Dedry, we are currently looking, together with the College of Reproductive Medicine of the Public Health Office, at how we can keep the data on Game Donation centralised. The College shall manage the BELRAP, a register containing all IVF cycles. Together with the college and experts, we are investigating whether we can expand that system with data on intrauterine sperm insemination and donor gametes, both from Belgian banks and gametes imported from abroad. Based on the results of that study, measures will also be taken to implement the articles of the law on medically assisted reproduction, to which you refer. It goes without saying that the scheme will have to comply with the legislation on the processing of personal data and privacy. As regards the fair remuneration for the donation of gametes, an opinion should be sought from the College. I would point out that we must also take into account the law of 19 December 2008 on human body material. Article 5 of that law provides that any advertising for the performance of removals or acts is prohibited, with the exception of cases where it concerns a public awareness campaign for allogeneic donation of human body material solely in the interest of public health. In accordance with Article 6, no advantage may be offered in exchange for the donation of human body material. The donor may, however, receive compensation for the cost or loss of income resulting directly from the donation. I am now looking, in consultation with the College and the competent authority, in particular the Federal Agency for Medicinal Products and Health Products, at how we can streamline all this. As regards the inspection of the use of donor gametes, human body material, including gametes, can in principle only be used in a hospital, in accordance with Article 4 of the Human Body Material Act. The people of the FAGG may carry out checks at any place where they reasonably suspect that there would be infringements of the provisions of the legislation under their supervision, including in the case of private individuals or in doctor-cabinettes. In practice, this is not very successful, as you probably know. In your question, you refer to self-insemination with sperm from a donor found on the Internet. It goes without saying that the public authorities' ability to act in this area is limited. It is appropriate to keep such non-regular circuits well in mind in the debate on the possible elimination of the anonymity of game donors. In the event of a shortage of donors in the regular circuit or when the modalities of donation are encountered too compelling, such parallel circuits may be used. That is dangerous, because there is no control over the quality of the gametes and consanguinity is not monitored in any way. Finally, as regards the implementation of good practice directives on medical reproduction, my predecessor asked the College to propose such directives. Those guidelines have meanwhile been validated by the College. I'll ask the college to make them public. I have instructed the Commission to initiate consultations between the representatives of the College and the RIZIV on this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-15-54-commissie-ic294x.u30	Madam Minister, you say that the directives have been validated, so I assume that implementation is very soon. That was the question, actually.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-15-54-commissie-ic294x.u31	The file must follow its trajectory. It will now be the subject of consultation, but we are certainly a step further.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-15-54-commissie-ic294x.u32	You say something very interesting about the later discussion on the lifting of donor anonymity. Can I understand that you are for or against?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-15-54-commissie-ic294x.u33	It is a debate in which there is something to be said for any argument. On the one hand, some people want to eliminate anonymity. There is something to be said for this, such as the right of children to know who they are genetically derived from. I understand that argument. On the other hand, I believe that the donor should also be able to retain the right to anonymity. If we completely eliminate anonymity, I fear a lack of donors, which will lead to alternative circuits to gain gametes. These circuits will be much more dangerous, there will be much less control and much less quality guarantees than is currently the case. It is therefore right that there should be a debate on the issue. However, I would like to know what the outcome of the debate will be. However, I can understand the arguments of both sides. We're gonna have to find each other in there. There is also such a thing as anonymity in person, which also has consequences in the area of inheritance law and responsibility. However, we must not forget that this is the only way for some people to have a child. We must ensure that we do not throw the child away with the bath water and that we do not lose everything we have done all these years to develop the quality and follow-up in this area and to have the expertise on the ground. It will be an interesting debate. It is an ethical debate rather than a scientific one. However, it is indeed a bitch to tap into.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-15-54-commissie-ic294x.u34	We will return to this issue when we discuss the proposed legislation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-15-54-commissie-ic294x.u35	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Yoleen Van Camp's 6975 question is converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-15-54-commissie-ic294x.u36	Madam President, Minister, you know that my party and I have repeatedly argued in favour of improving the framework of care staff. We think that is really crucial. The water is on the lips of the nurses in the hospital and the allowance for home nursing is also 8 % behind. The last time I asked the question, your answer showed that there was not much hope for an improvement in the situation. There was good news in the budget plan. The wages of midwife would be increased and the paramedical professions would be upgraded by a budget of EUR 10 million. Madam Secretary, are the home nurses and the hospital care staff included in those plans? What will be done to improve the situation of paramedical personnel? What amount will be spent on this? EUR 10 million for all paramedical professions is a limited pot. Wouldn't it have been better to make more resources available for that?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-15-54-commissie-ic294x.u37	Madam President, Mrs Van Camp, for the hospital staff and the home nurses, we are doing the exercise with the IF-IC, the Institute for Function Classification. Since 2001, this institute has been engaged in developing an analytical job classification for the federal non-profit sectors. Through the description and analysis of functions, the IF-IC aims to achieve a logical ranking and classification in classes of all functions, in order to achieve a correct wage policy for employees active in the private health establishments under federal jurisdiction and within the Joint Committee 330. A first instalment of EUR 50 million is foreseen under the healthcare budget. In a first phase, the final focus is on the care staff. This proposal will be further developed with the social partners concerned. It was, moreover, the first and only major priority of the social partners in the 330 Joint Committee to do this and to allocate resources for this purpose. In addition to the existing budget, we provide an additional EUR 10 million to meet the needs of the paramedical professions. How these funds will be used is the subject of consultation with the Insurance Committee. The focus should also be on meeting the identified needs in the first line and on a social status for some providers who do not now have them. In that connection, I am talking about the midwife and the speech pedists. The proposal that will follow from this is part of a global vision and a harmonised framework for the social charter contained in the law on compulsory insurance and thus in the context of agreements and agreements with health professionals. However, I would like to point out that the budget for home care is the only budget that has increased by 7% per year in the last 10 years. You know that the growth standard was 1.5 %, but also because of savings, to which your party cooperates, it is no longer 1.5 % but around 1%. Nevertheless, there is still a growth of 3.5 % for home care. If you ask me if it is enough, I will answer that it could be more, but that at least we are doing a lot more for those sectors, in order to grow them, than we can do for the other sectors. There are needs everywhere. Despite the high growth standards of the past, there are cases everywhere that were not paid and social statutes that were not adjusted. That is what we are trying to remedy, always in consultation, because it is being discussed in the Insurance Committee. In addition, I would point out that a further 25 million has been provided for the Medicomut agreement, which is currently being negotiated, and that part of it will go to primary care. If we can save on the wholesale trade in this respect, Minister Peeters is responsible for the regulation, and I would add that the wholesale trade is one of the actors that needs to be responded to, it will amount to 7 or 8 million. If we can do that, we have already indicated that these resources will also go to primary care. In many other categories primary care is involved and the efforts made are for primary care and certainly for home care.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-15-54-commissie-ic294x.u38	Madam Secretary, I think this is only normal. I have said it many times, the savings that we are advocating and which we agree with relate to waste in health care. It is not only good, but it is even normal to use primary care, because this is a cheaper investment than if people have to be included in a further echelon. The growth in home care doesn't surprise me, if there is more effort on, for example, a shorter life span and if the focus is more on first-line care. It seems to me that there is still a difference between the growth caused by entrusting more tasks to the first line, on the one hand, and the level of pay there, on the other. Those two elements need to be disconnected from each other.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-15-54-commissie-ic294x.u39	Mrs. Van Camp, I'm talking about ten years ago. The evolution towards a shorter shelf life is not yet included. It is now about a growth rate of 7% over the last ten years. That's right, there's a need on the property. Today an article appeared about our services that follow that up to check whether the data is being passed on properly. A euro is a euro and we must also ensure that every euro is spent properly and efficiently. We need to get the road pirates out. It is therefore right to examine whether the funds are being properly spent.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-15-54-commissie-ic294x.u40	It's not necessarily contradictory.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-15-54-commissie-ic294x.u41	Question No. 6880 by Ms. Yoleen Van Camp is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-15-54-commissie-ic294x.u42	Madam Secretary, drops of Neobacitracin are often prescribed in Belgium to fight infections: in the nose with a cold, in the eye, in the ear. It can only be obtained by prescription because it consists of two antibiotics. However, we know that the local use of antibiotics contributes to both germs and resistance to antibiotics. The Committee on Medicinal Products Medication therefore gave a negative opinion to repay this medicine. After all, its usefulness is questionable. Madam Minister, I was surprised that you did not follow the advice. However, you have changed the reimbursement rules and increased the patient's brake fee. Despite the scientific evidence that it is not a good medicine, you approved its reimbursement and doctors continue to prescribe it massively. According to Test-Achats, some 320 000 packages with a high cost to the patient and health insurance were prescribed in 2014. Madam Secretary, why are you making this choice? After all, you often say that you follow everything evidence-based medicine is. Isn't it a priority this time and why not? I don't understand. Do you also think it is not contradictory that the government conducts campaigns against excessive antibiotic use, but pays back Neobacitracin at the same time?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-15-54-commissie-ic294x.u43	Mrs. Dedry, you've been misinformed. It was already a refundable medicine, but the company asked for an increase in the price of the product already reimbursed, because production was not profitable. If the price increase was not granted, Neobacitracin would have disappeared from the market. The price increase was granted and I will give you all the arguments for that. Firstly, alternatives to local use in the same price range are lacking. After all, they are antibiotics for local use. If we do not have antibiotics for local use, this means a risk of switching to oral antibiotics, which, as you know, are already being used abundantly. That risk is well known. If the failure to allocate the price increase removes Neobacitracin from the market, only physiological serum is available as a medicinal product for external use, especially in the nose. If this is not necessary, there is a risk of switching to oral antibiotics. That is an important argument. Subsequently, in the context of the price increase, the remuneration category from B to C was changed. Compensation category B, where the RIZIV repays 75%, is for chronic medication. Compensation category C, where the RIZIV repays 50%, is more for acute and comfort medication. In doing so, it indicates the limited clinical value compared to the planned reimbursement. As a result of the change from reimbursement category B to C, the brake charge for the patient changes from 0.95 euros to 3.4 euros. As part of the price increase application, several occupational groups were consulted, namely pediaters, throat, nose and ear doctors, general practitioners and pharmacists. They all indicated that they wish to have that medicine in the therapeutic arsenal, in other words that they do not come with only physiological serum, which, as you know, is water with salt. Although there are several arguments against the topical use of antibiotics, it also includes, if you are referring to scientific support, the most recent and respected textbook on infectious diseases and their treatment, Mandell, Douglas and Bennett.Principles and practice of infectious diseases, which is still part of our arsenal of anti-infection medicines. The conclusion is that there is nevertheless scientific support for the use of Neobacitracin. It has a place in the pharmaceutical armamentarium together with other topical antimicrobials in the infectious disease treatment within the indications accepted by the registration authorities, despite the small studies that were then required for registration. This change from class B to C has reduced RIZIV costs from 1.85 to 1.65 million euros. The above elements were part of my decision to depart from the Commission's negative proposal on medicinal products and to grant the price increase. It is never easy, but I think it is important that this local antibacterial treatment can take place and that we do not see a massive shift to antibiotics there. This is often used in children. That is why we have also consulted the pedians. If there had been other topical medicines with antibiotics, it would have been a different story. Now, however, we only fall back on physiological water. That has its merits, I am the most in favour of it, but it remains physiological water.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-15-54-commissie-ic294x.u44	Madam Secretary, thank you for your comprehensive reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-15-54-commissie-ic294x.u45	Joined Questions Nos 7025 by Mr Dirk Janssens, 7026 and 7035 by Mrs Renate Hufkens, 7156 by Mrs Anne Dedry and 7167 by Mrs Caroline Cassart-Mailleux are transformed into written questions. Given that the Minister is only available until noon, it is clear that not all questions will be asked. That is why Mrs Catherine Fonck asked for a reversal of questions on the agenda. That is how his question No 7115 is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-15-54-commissie-ic294x.u46	Madam President, I would like to thank you for doing this inversion of questions. Minister, it seems to me appropriate not to wait until January to come back to the subject. Indeed, for a number of months, I let you work because of the fundamental importance of finding a solution and getting out from the top of the block concerning the reimbursement of Soliris in the prevention of post-graft recidivism in patients with SHUa. Meanwhile, patients are undergoing dialysis, even though on a European scale, the majority of countries reimburse Soliris so that these patients can benefit from a transplant. This is not a lifetime rebate, as Soliris should not be administered for life. It allows them to exit dialysis and benefit from a transplant. I had already asked you about this at the end of 2014 and last June. You then told me that the discussions were still under way with Alexion. So I'm coming back to you to find out what's going on. Have you been able to give a positive outcome to these negotiations with Alexion? What are the concrete advances for the few patients involved?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-15-54-commissie-ic294x.u47	Mrs Fonck, discussions on the reimbursement of the Soliris are still ongoing. These are intensive contacts and delicate negotiations between the firm and Soliris. I have no further information to provide to you at this time. Nevertheless, what I can tell you is that the dossier is, for me too, very important because it concerns young people who are facing enormous difficulties. The discussions take into account the clinical practice in the literature that has been given to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-15-54-commissie-ic294x.u48	Minister, I understand that you can't say anything about current contacts. My question is much more fundamental. As much as I can understand, we are giving ourselves a number of months, which is why I have not asked any more questions during this time, as much as I fear that the discussions will get bogged down, that no one will talk about them anymore and that in the end the patients will find themselves extremely penalized. It is true that Soliris is very expensive. As it has been decided that patients who develop renal insufficiency on SHUa will now be reimbursed for this medicine, patients will not normally reach the stage of end-stage renal insufficiency. Good! On the other hand, for the few patients who are currently in dialysis, may I remind you that on the basis of serious studies carried out in particular by Van Biesen, Vanholder, Lameire and Peeters of the University of Ghent in 2001, the cost of dialysis over several years exceeds the cost of Soliris administered for one year after transplantation? Even for the state, it is worth the budget to have a serious and solid reflection not on what it will cost in 2016, but on what it will cost in a decade. It's a real ethical issue. Leave these patients in dialysis even though we know today, solid scientific literature in support, that thanks to the Soliris, they can benefit from a transplant, I find that unacceptable. It is ethically unacceptable to choose to leave them in dialysis because discussions with Alexion do not find a way out. Madam Minister, I would like to insist. A solution must be found in a timely manner. These patients have been victims of the current situation for far too long.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-15-54-commissie-ic294x.u49	Mrs Fonck, your argument is balanced, but I am not the one to be convinced! I inherited this difficult issue for which we negotiated days and nights. It is important to take the time to negotiate because we know that negotiating is not always good. I therefore take the time to negotiate, but we do so intensively, in order to find a solution for all the patients concerned. There is certainly the budgetary aspect, but it is not the only one. We need to find a solution for patients with confidence. It is not simple because we inherited a file in very poor condition!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-15-54-commissie-ic294x.u50	Minister, you have been a minister for fifteen months. Let me tell you that 15 months of dialysis, rather than being grafted, is a lot, especially for children! Moreover, once they are on the list, you know that the waiting period is unfortunately not a few months to be able to benefit from a transplant. After fifteen months, today every month counts!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-15-54-commissie-ic294x.u51	Minister, an update of the e-Health Action Plan 2013-2018, related to the evolution of digital technologies, was recently presented by the e-Health Platform Management Committee. This plan, approved by nine ministers at different levels of power, incorporates a new component on the "mobile health", whose aim is to enable citizens to better monitor and monitor their health through mobile applications and devices, in a clear and secure framework. In addition, it is expected that by 2018 citizens will be able to access their own online medical data via their mobile phone and personally monitor health parameters. I would therefore like to take advantage of the announcement of this news to ask you about the possibility of setting up an electronic vaccination book. Today, vaccines are either listed in the child's health book distributed by the ONE or Kind en Gezin during the consultations, or on paper vaccination cards for adults. However, the advantages of a "vaccination e-carnet" are many: keep a record of the various vaccinations no longer on a piece of paper but in a real secure and personalized electronic book, avoid the loss of notebooks and other vaccination documents, know yourself at all times about the state of vaccination and, if necessary, update its vaccines to be effectively and sustainably protected or choose its vaccines according to the vaccination programme and schedule recommended by the Higher Council of Health. Minister, what are the current opportunities for citizens to know about their immunization status? Do you think it is appropriate to include it in this "mobile health" component? Has this thought already been proposed and discussed in the e-Health Platform Management Committee or in another working group? If not, do you plan to examine it in close cooperation with the sector concerned and other federated entities?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-15-54-commissie-ic294x.u52	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all to answer your question about the current possibilities for citizens to know their vaccination situation, you should know that in Flanders, all vaccines made available free of charge must be registered by the Flemish authorities in Vaccinet. In the French Community, all vaccines made available free of charge must be registered in e-vax. Caregivers may also register other vaccines. As far as the question of whether it is relevant to include this aspect in the "mobile health" section is concerned, you should know that the objective is not to develop applications, but rather to create a framework for using applications. It is of course possible for the Communities to make an application available or for a third party to propose an application for vaccination integrated into Vaccinet or e-vax. Action Point 10 of the new Roadmap provides a record health patient who will provide the citizen with a list of available data, including vaccination data. It is for this reason that cooperation with federated entities is necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-15-54-commissie-ic294x.u53	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. As I understand it, the work is under way and the organisation of this data list is under negotiation with the federated entities, with the aim of achieving a comprehensive application and an online vaccination book. In any case, this data list is already provided for in the e-Health programme.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-15-54-commissie-ic294x.u54	This is foreseen in the context of the update of the e-Health Roadmap, more specifically, in point 10.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-15-54-commissie-ic294x.u55	Ladies and gentlemen, you should be aware that one of our next meetings will be devoted to this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-15-54-commissie-ic294x.u56	Madam Secretary, some patients come home and still need probe nutrition. The allowance is provided for in a Royal Decree of 1966. Anyone meeting the criteria of the Royal Decree can count on a concession. Of course, our medical science has evolved very much and maybe the KB needs an update after all. Probe nutrition is also recommended at home for some cancer patients and patients with chronic disease, chronic kidney disease or heart failure. Moreover, recent research has shown that cancer patients are definitely suffering from malnutrition. Probation can then be a good addition, as malnutrition leads to, among other things, increased mortality, higher morbidity, longer hospitalization and delay of therapy. Madam Secretary, are you prepared to update the relevant KB and adapt the criteria? Anyone who does not receive a refund must soon impose a few hundred euros, depending on the intensity of the use of the probe feed. Would you like to revise the criteria? Would you like to follow the recommendations of recent scientific research, which I have listed in the written version of my question? Can you make a brief cost-benefit analysis, which gives us a better view of the phenomenon, all the more in view of the increase in the number of patients in home care?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-15-54-commissie-ic294x.u57	Mrs. Dedry, the royal decision you're quoting dates back to 1996. The latest adaptation dates back to 2009. So it can be said that it needs to be updated. Indeed, some patients do not receive compensation for enteral nutrition because they do not meet the conditions of the decision. Some patients receive parenteral nutrition because they receive compensation for this, even if enteral nutrition would be more appropriate. In order to rectify this situation, the experts of the Working Party on Medical Nutrition at the RIZIV have studied the situation. They have proposed to add a number of new indications to the current Decision. One of the new indications refers to the target group you describe in your question. The indication is even wider, it is not limited to a specific disease, but requires that it is a serious disease leading to severe malnutrition, demonstrated by either a nutritional risk screening score higher than 3, or by a BMI below 18.5. The changes have social and medical importance. They are therefore considered to be very important within all proposed changes in the field of reimbursement of medical nutrition. Because more patients are eligible for a refund, this obviously has an effect on the budget of the medical diet. This is estimated at EUR 156 000. For this reason, the implementation of the amendments has been delayed for some time. In the current budgetary context, there is no provision for additional funds for medical food. Moreover, there is neither room nor flexibility to make adjustments within the current budget for medical nutrition. I repeat the commitment I made in committee in July to think more across-the-board and avoid silo thinking in future budget calculations. We must get out of this by accounting for less expenditure in other sectors, such as hospitalization and surgery. I hope to find a solution to this problem in the coming months, so that we can help the patients concerned at home. Since your question refers specifically to the nutritional needs of cancer patients, I would like to point out that we have allocated substantial funding for the recruitment of dietists by hospitals with an oncological basic care programme under the cancer plan. This will also help to integrate food aid into oncological care, inter alia by identifying nutritional problems as early as possible, so that they can be addressed quickly and possibly avoided. So cancer patients are now being watched out to keep them from losing too much weight between their treatments. It is different than in ordinary life, where it is a good sign when one can retain his weight or not lose too much weight. The nutritional status is therefore also important. The BMI is a parameter, but the weight loss over a certain period is another. The problem is that the budget for medical nutrition is a separate part of the RIZIV budget. No money has been found for that yet. However, I will try to look at the dossier more broadly, also in the light of our efforts to ensure that our pilot projects, for example for patients undergoing cancer treatment, take place more in home care.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-15-54-commissie-ic294x.u58	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. We shall have another debate on the problem in the Committee on Health. After all, there is a motion for a resolution on malnutrition. The problem will certainly be addressed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-15-54-commissie-ic294x.u59	Question No 7164 by Mrs Anne Dedry, question No 7168 by Mrs Renate Hufkens and question No 7179 by Mrs Valerie Van Peel are transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-15-54-commissie-ic294x.u60	Madam President, Minister, a study by UCL and KUL shows that more than 40% of people over the age of 80 are receiving a potentially harmful drug. In some cases, the prescriptions may be justified but the doses are too high, the durations too long or the drug too expensive. Another case is that the medicine has harmful interactions with another medicine. But the most dangerous is when a drug causes side effects for which other medications are prescribed, and so on. It's called the drug cascade. The consequences of this misuse of medicines can be serious: side effects, increased cost of treatment, deterioration of the patient's quality of life and even hospitalization. The first reason for this misuse of medicines is the lack of information in both patients and caregivers. Among the causes, there is also a lack of communication between the various actors, for example between the general practitioner and the specialist. A project called Come-on and funded by INAMI is currently being set up in some 60 nursing homes across Belgium to try to improve the collaboration between the general practitioner, pharmacist and nurse and thus to optimize the use of medicines in nursing homes. Minister, what about this project since the sixth reform of the state? Can you tell us more about this one and where it is? Is an evaluation of the results observed in the field planned? Could this project be generalized to all nursing homes at the end of its evaluation? Are new measures being considered to improve the situation and avoid drug cascades, including when the person is at home?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-15-54-commissie-ic294x.u61	Frédéric, the aim of this project is to facilitate consultation on the individual patient between the prescribing physician, the nurse in charge of the nursing home and the pharmacist. The aim is to make recommendations on rational prescribing behaviour. The effective use of a drug form is also part of this study. A second aspect of the project is the analysis of the complete process from prescribing to administering the drug to the patient. The aim is also to make recommendations that could later be included in a regulatory framework that is valid for the entire sector. Despite the fact that the full jurisdiction for residential care of the elderly has been transferred to the federated entities, this study concerns a matter that has not been transferred and for which the federal authority remains competent, namely the drug regulations. The duration of the project is three years, from 1 September 2014 to 31 December 2016. When the study was launched, thirty projects and thirty-three control institutions were involved in the intervention group. Currently, 24 projects are still active, as are 30 control institutions. The results of the survey and recommendations are expected by March 2017 and will be submitted to the advisory bodies prior to general implementation. They will also be explained to the sector on a study day. The drug cascade program, one of the aspects of polymedication, was dealt with on 3 December at a symposium jointly organized by the National Medical-Mutualist Commission, the National Quality Promotion Council and the Drug Practice Assessment Committee. It was accompanied by an extensive scientific committee representing the various actors involved in the rational use of medicines in the elderly, whether or not placed in institutions. Its task is to identify and propose, within the months following the symposium, recommendations, indicators and incentives to promote this rational use. In view of the ageing population, the continuation of this work seems to me to be very useful for the elderly, whether they still live at home or in a nursing home. The effective use of medicines is obviously essential if we are to avoid making mistakes.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-15-54-commissie-ic294x.u62	Question No 7204 by Mr. Daniel Senesael is postponed. Question No 7214 by Mr Eric Massin is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-15-54-commissie-ic294x.u63	Mr. Frédéric has become a major health specialist.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-15-54-commissie-ic294x.u64	Madam President, I took care of the Committee on the Interior for 15 years and we chose a hypochondriac to come to Health! You will understand that I am this with great interest. Minister, as you know, the fight against stroke took place on October 29, 2015. There is always a delay between the time you introduce the questions and when you ask them. On that occasion, I had the opportunity to learn about brain thromboctomy. Thrombectomy can be performed up to six hours after the patient has had a stroke. This method allows you to capture and then suck the clot with a fine catheter. It is effective since different studies show that patients are functionally independent to non-existent days. At present, it appears that there is no regulation on the number of centres that can perform this procedure or on the doctors who can perform it. In fact, health professionals seem to be advocating 12 to 15 centres in Belgium and doctors practising twenty to twenty-five thromboctomies a year, in order to ensure expertise in this field. A further observation is also made as to the equipment used in these interventions. This would have a significant cost that is currently not reimbursed. Minister, it seems that there is currently a debate within INAMI on these issues. Can I ask you how far it has progressed? What initiatives are envisaged in this regard? What about the cost of these interventions and what type of reimbursement could be put in place? Finally, with regard to the number of centres, will the opinions of health professionals be followed?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-15-54-commissie-ic294x.u65	Madam President, Mr Frédéric, thank you for your question. The specialisation of the centres is indeed an existing debate within INAMI which lies at the heart of my reform of the hospital landscape. There is a need to improve efficiency and quality. Several types of refund of probes currently exist, notably for thromboctomy, for the recalisation of vascular occlusion. A refund dossier is currently being analysed by the Commission for the reimbursement of implants and invasive devices for a device for extracting a thrombus by endovascular route. In the context of this dossier, but also in a more comprehensive way, an analysis of the specialization of the centres, in terms of the use of implants, will also be carried out.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-15-54-commissie-ic294x.u66	Madam President, Madam Minister, the Flemish Association for Logopedists is asking the party to adjust the reimbursement of therapy to stutterers. Now stutterers are entitled to 192 sessions at the logopedist, or one hour a week, for two years. Because many stutterers relapse and because small children often do not need two years, it would be a good thing if stutterers could save their sessions for later. I suppose you know about that call. Do you have any plans to adapt the regulations in this respect?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-15-54-commissie-ic294x.u67	Madam President, I would like to thank Mrs Jiroflée for her question. Mrs Jiroflée, you know that things are currently going on in this area. The professional associations of logopedists and insurance institutions signed a convention for the years 2015 and 2016 together at the end of 2014. The current convention also included an ambitious plan to reform the nomenclature for the logopedia. I am of course in favour of this reform, because it must improve the quality of the logopedic treatment and make room for the revaluation of fees and for the inclusion of new pathologies in the nomenclature, provided that it is budget-neutral and that at the same time no additional costs are incurred for the patient. The reform of the reimbursement of therapy in the event of stuttering can, of course, also form part of this reform of the nomenclature. As they felt that the work to implement the agreements made did not progress quickly enough, the professional associations have now denounced the convention from 1 January 2016, so that the Agreement Committee on Logo-Mut has once again negotiated the problems and can come to a new convention. That convention is important, because it can also provide the patient with tariff security. I do not know why or how the professional associations decided that it was not fast enough, on the one hand, but decided to cancel the convention, on the other. I can understand all that, but that is not the way things are going. We are now negotiating intensively again to try, perhaps through better timing, to set up a new convention. The participation of these associations is very high. I would like to inform the people of the consultation that there is indeed still room for improvement on this point.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-15-54-commissie-ic294x.u68	Thank you for your reply, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-15-54-commissie-ic294x.u69	Madam President, Madam Minister, in the political groups, there are eminent specialists, like my colleague André Frédéric, who ask you a very technical question, and then there are luggage carriers, who, like me, simply ask you a general question. Processed red meat (carcutery, hamburgers, sausages, bacon, and other industrial meats) has been ranked top of the list of carcinogens by the International Cancer Research Centre (IARC) and the WHO Cancer Agency. Red meat in the broad sense, including pork and veal, has been classified as "probably carcinogenic". This is the result of a series of scientific studies that show links between these products and the emergence of certain cancers, including the colon and, to a lesser extent, the prostate and pancreas cancers. The growing influence of a junk food industry in the content of our plates is evident. Perhaps we do not care enough about this threat in our countries that have become too fat, where the pursuit of growth and development overtakes welfare and public health considerations. Minister, can you provide us with more specific information on the impact of a meat-rich diet on the number of cancer deaths? Why are red meat and charcuteries carcinogens? To what extent do the risks associated with consumption vary? How can we manage to raise awareness and bring about a change in the eating habits of a part of the population? What initiatives do you intend to take to reduce the risk of cancer associated with meat? Would labelling details be appropriate? Finally, how to adapt the current public health recommendations calling for limiting meat consumption while taking into account the nutritional value of this product?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-15-54-commissie-ic294x.u70	Mr Blanchart, the report on the links between red meat consumption and carcinogenic effects of the International Cancer Research Centre, relayed by the WHO last October, is not a surprise. Already in January 2014, the Conseil Supérieur de la Santé had submitted an opinion on the consumption of red meat and the prevention of colorectal cancer. The WHO report highlights a real risk that has been well validated, except that it does not affect the entire population. At the individual level, for normal consumption of meat and charcuterie, the risk is not proven. Therefore, under no circumstances should people with moderate meat consumption be alarmed. In other words, it is the excessive eating of red meat and charcuterie that is a problem. Only large consumers are at increased risk of developing cancer. The theme is known: it is necessary to opt for a diet that is above all varied and balanced with a moderate consumption of red meat and charcuterie, combined with a diet rich in fruits and vegetables. Before we begin an in-depth reflection on the information needs and types of action to be taken, it is necessary to have a clear overall view of the actual consumption of red meat and charcuterie in Belgium. This data will be available in the course of 2016 through the new consumer survey, which now ends with the Public Health FPS and the Scientific Institute of Public Health. Once the results are available, it will then be possible to assess whether additional measures are required. Meanwhile, the diet must be varied and balanced and include fruits, vegetables, fibers – I have already spread the message. We know that meat consumption is on the decline. However, there are still large consumers of meat.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-15-54-commissie-ic294x.u71	Madam Minister, obviously, there is nothing alarming at this time in terms of education. So, no additional measures at the moment! So we will follow your moderation advice before the holidays!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-15-54-commissie-ic294x.u72	Madam Chair, Minister, I note that the issues follow each other but do not look the same. The subject here may be more macabre than others, but it is important for many citizens, also in terms of the prospect of European integration. Madam Minister, you are aware that there are cooperation agreements between France and Belgium in the field of health care, which is something to be welcomed. I think I can say that some border regions are at the forefront as Belgian or French citizens can be treated in hospitals near the border. However, these agreements do not cover the repatriation of bodies in the event of death. Currently, when a French citizen dies on Belgian territory, the repatriation procedure is governed by the Berlin Agreement of 1937 and the Strasbourg Agreement of 26 October 1973, which is now obsolete. Indeed, in order to bring the body of a deceased back to France from Belgium, it is mandatory, in order to cross the border, to place the body in a sealed and hermetic zinc-plated coffin. This operation takes place in a Belgian funeral home in the presence of a police officer who has to write a report. The body was then repatriated to France. Seals cannot be legally broken, with the result that the family cannot once again see the deceased's face. To this is added the cumbersomeness of such a procedure and the cost of it. The press reports a cost of 500 euros. In case of cremation, things are still complicated because the zinc coffin has to be removed. Thus, when a French citizen dies on Belgian soil, the funeral company must go to France with the deceased for the ceremony, before returning to Belgium to continue the operations. It is in the presence of a police officer that the seals are removed to remove the body from the zinc coffin and put it back in a wooden coffin. Incineration can then take place. The ashes can then return to France. This situation is particularly important since many elderly people of French nationality choose to reside in a nursing home in Belgium. In addition, Belgian hospitals located in the border area – I am thinking in particular of hospitals in my region, namely the hospitals of Chimay, Dinant, Mont-Godinne, regularly welcome French patients and some of them sometimes die. This means that more and more families are involved. In the past, these measures were due to health reasons, but today, with the development of techniques, this is no longer justified, with the exception of very specific situations such as in the case of a contagious disease. I think we have all the elements available today to deal with this. Minister, do you confirm this procedure and this information? Are you able to tell me how many French citizens die each year in Belgium and are therefore affected by this procedure? Has your department, together with your colleagues in the Ministries of the Interior and Foreign Affairs, taken any administrative steps to ease and simplify the constraints on the transport of goods between our two countries? If so, what measures are envisaged and when? What about contacts with the French authorities? I think the best solution would be a draft bilateral agreement. We are told that on the French side, the three departments concerned have proposed to the Belgian authorities a draft text of a cooperation agreement to simplify the procedures. Do you confirm this information? Is this text under review or negotiation? Eventually, within what time frame do you intend to complete this file? In any case, there is a similar cross-border agreement between Belgium and the Netherlands. One might wonder why we cannot conclude this kind of cooperation agreement with France. Thank you, minister, and I will be attentive to your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-15-54-commissie-ic294x.u73	Mr Delizée, after the advice of the Supreme Council of Health, bilateral discussions have been initiated. A solution is envisaged through a memorandum of understanding, for example, but there is still a need to adapt our legislation in this area. As far as your questions are concerned, I can inform you that annually, the administration issues approximately 3,000 death passes for repatriations of bodies to other countries, all of them. It is impossible for me to target passes issued in the ten or twenty-kilometre border area. It is obvious that all want a solution on both sides of the border. As a result, my administration launched initiatives as early as 2014 and questioned the Supreme Council of Health. Both France and Belgium have ratified the Strasbourg Agreement. French standards were much stricter and clearly defined in our neighbour's legislation. The Conseil Supérieur de la Santé recommends that we review our Royal Decree of the Regent to make it as compliant as possible with French legislation. However, others are calling for greater harmonisation at European level, because the wish of our neighbours would be a Franco-Belgian agreement for the entire French territory. This may seem logical, but would include a much larger portion than the border area. The question therefore arises of the European position. We know that Europe needs a lot of time to achieve results. Belgium may take a pioneering approach in this area, which could lead to formal harmonisation in the European Union. I can tell you that the work is under way, but it is too early to reach a conclusion. It seems useful to me to do this work throughout the country. It is indeed strange that, depending on whether you are in Paris, Brittany or Picardy, agreements in terms of administration and transport are concluded differently - especially since these moments are very painful for families. I myself have known people who have died abroad; it took weeks for the loved ones to bury them with dignity. A solution must therefore be found.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-15-54-commissie-ic294x.u74	Minister, thank you for your answers, which confirm that bilateral discussions are well under way. I have noted the number of cases for border areas. You're talking about adapting the legislation. However, the agreement with the Netherlands did not pose a similar problem, even though I do not know the Dutch law on this subject. Secondly, I would like to make it clear that my request is not intended to conclude an agreement for part of the border. It is a question of reaching a Franco-Belgian agreement, from Dunkirk to the Belgian-French-Luxembourg border. Perhaps this issue will have to be resolved with other countries. Bilateral agreements exist for certain parts - for example, Avesnois in the Ardennes department - especially for medical matters. You have not given a deadline, but I hope that you will be able to reach it as soon as possible, because this is a real problem for the families concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-15-54-commissie-ic294x.u75	If the minister allows, I will ask my question, as announced, just before the end of our work. The remaining issues will be deferred to January. It is also possible to turn your questions into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-15-54-commissie-ic294x.u76	Minister, October 29 was World Psoriasis Day. In Belgium, some 300,000 people (3% of the population) have this autoimmune disease, which is difficult to live with. Its causes are difficult to identify even if the polygenic track is increasingly mentioned. External factors influence the visible and stronger phases. The external signs characteristic of this disease often make the person the target of discrimination or avoidance. It is an inflammatory disease that does not heal – one tries to cure the symptoms. The WHO, since a resolution in May 2014, that as a member we have adopted, considers that people with this disease are more likely than others to suffer from co-morbidity, depression and anxiety and that they are victims of stigma and social and occupational discrimination. WHO calls for recognition of patients suffering from this disease and for the establishment of a global and state-level action plan. Minister, how did things happen here in Belgium? Are there any prospects for the recognition of this disease as a chronic disease, so that the most appropriate treatments are available? There is a reimbursement of drugs when we are in an already very advanced phase. Is there a reflection on access to the most innovative medicines, on the criteria for reimbursement and on the awareness of the population not only of these patients but also of the medical world, given these consequences and mechanisms of co-morbidity, depression, etc. What did I tell you about? Consideration should also be given to the development of day centres, when there are crises, as they appear to be more effective than hospitalization. Finally, there would be a lack of consensus on the identification of psoriatic rheumatism. Minister, more generally, has a working group been set up within the INAMI Chronic Disease Observatory? If this is not the case, would it not be a lead?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-15-54-commissie-ic294x.u77	Mrs Gerkens, your description of psoriasis and its consequences is perfectly correct and we fully agree with the conclusions of the WHO. The role of health insurance is not to recognize a particular chronic disease. However, the lump sum allowance for high medical expenses and the "chronic condition" status are a generic solution for people who suffer the usual consequences of a chronic condition. Like you, we regret the lack of consensus on the diagnostic criteria for psoriatic rheumatism, but we have no doubt that our fellow clinicians agree as quickly as possible on this point. This is very important for the patients involved. The nomenclature provides patients with psoriasis with special consultations both among rheumatologists and dermatologists to allow specialists to devote the necessary time to all aspects of their disease. The technical acts of these specialists shall be reimbursed. Alternatives to hospital care can be explored through pilot projects on "complex dermatological care" in daytime dermatological centres (in-home ultraviolet treatment). Solutions are also being explored to reduce the cost of psoriasis medication. These solutions include innovative medicines (antiimmune therapies) as well as common, non-refundable products such as bath oils, soaps and special shampoos. With regard to these unreimbursed outputs, a first proposal has already been made, but the experts have requested a revision of the selected indications and of how the budget will be used. This revision is under way. With regard to innovative medicinal products, such as Cosentyx and Otezla, the Reimbursement Commission for Medicinal Products is currently studying this dossier. Before making any reimbursement, it is necessary to rely on the report of the said commission. The current functioning of the Chronic Disease Observatory needs to be modified to meet the requirements of the latest state reform and the new chronic disease plan. Under these circumstances, the creation of a specific working group within the Observatory is not foreseen in the immediate future. However, the associations Psoriasis-Contact ASBL and Psoriasis Liga Vlaanderen are represented at the Observatory for Chronic Diseases. The Observatory remains the ideal contact point for all the difficulties patients face because of their illness, the treatment used, the social consequences - discrimination, etc.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-15-54-commissie-ic294x.u78	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. I note that several aspects of the file are moving forward. We will follow up this issue on this particular disease when we take stock of chronic diseases.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-15-54-commissie-ic294x.u79	Thank you for these two intense hours of questions and answers. The remaining issues will be included in the agenda of the next January meetings.
