ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-03-54-commissie-ic103x.u1	Mrs Becq is absent because of illness.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-03-54-commissie-ic103x.u2	Minister, a few weeks ago it was announced that France and Belgium compared DNA samples from their databases. Apparently, 4 287 agreements came out of this. There is now a lot of work on the table to turn the agreements into hard research results. The NICC expects to have about 16 months' work on this, but the NICC also fears that the DNA team will have to reduce with three employees from April this year, as their contract expires. However, the intention is to extend the international exchange of DNA data to the entire European Union. There should also be sufficient staff at the Federal Office, which manages the national DNA cell, for the processing of the new information. First of all, is it true that three contracts expire at the end of March 2015 at the NICC DNA team? Secondly, do you intend to adapt it so that the processing of the results does not delay? Thirdly, if not, what impact do you expect the reduction in the number of employees to have on the processing of the data from France?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-03-54-commissie-ic103x.u3	Mr President, Mr Van Hecke, I should first like to apologize, the Lebanese Minister of Justice was a guest of mine and he arrived at 3:40 p.m. at 3:00 p.m., when he had to be there at 3:00 p.m. He called the Brussels taxi fare manifestation as an excuse. I kicked him out at 4:10 p.m. and then I went into confrontation with the taxi fare sector myself. Mrs Özen, I would like to apologise to you personally because I was waiting for the Lebanese Minister of Justice at 3.00 p.m. He arrived at 3:40 p.m. because of the taxi strike. He left me at 4:10 p.m. and then I went here. Please excuse me, I'll never make you wait again. I don't speak for others, I speak for Mrs Özen.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-03-54-commissie-ic103x.u4	Minister, there are witnesses! [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-03-54-commissie-ic103x.u5	This isn't the first time I've promised her. (...) : (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-03-54-commissie-ic103x.u6	Mr Van Hecke, the international DNA data exchanges are carried out by a team of three experts from the National Institute of Criminal and Criminology. They are funded by the European Commission through the project The Prüm Implementation, Evaluation, and Strengthing of Forensic DNA Data Exchange - PIES. Given the current reduction in staff resources, their extension cannot take place on the NICC staff plan. The extension of these contracts would be carried out through the successor to the ISEC programme, the ISF programme "Interim Security Fund', which will be launched in 2016. In order to ensure the continuity of the international DNA data exchange, the exceptional measure to pay the contracts of two researchers with own resources will be invoked through the Budget and Civil Service Ministers until June 2015. The Finance Inspectorate gave a positive opinion on 6 February 2015. These employees have been trained for more than a year to carry out these tasks. As soon as a positive response to the exception is obtained and European funds are made available, the continuity of the international DNA data exchange can be ensured until June 2018. In the two decisions of the EU Council of 2008, No. 2008/615/JHA and 2008/616/JHA, it was established that DNA data are automatically exchanged between all European Member States. An agreement was also concluded with Iceland, Norway, Liechtenstein and Switzerland to exchange DNA data. Each Member State is intended to be operational with any other Member State in the long term. Currently Belgium is already operational with respect to the Netherlands and France, but preparatory tests were carried out with Germany, Luxembourg and Slovakia. These were successful. Additional staff will also be needed on the federal prosecutor's national DNA cell. At present, 84 percent of the links with the Netherlands and 35 percent of the links with France have already been dealt with. Each Member State is responsible for managing and keeping up-to-date its own DNA database. Each Member State shall decide whether or not to take the initiative to follow up the case. In the case of an agreement between a track profile and a passenger profile, it is generally the country holding the track profile that takes the initiative and requesting the personal and file data from the country holding the passenger profile. Additional costs are not, in principle, incurred. There is no cost involved in requesting the personal and file data. If additional analyses are required, e.g. if there are initially too few genetic markers results, they are not invoiced by the DNA laboratories.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-03-54-commissie-ic103x.u7	Thank you, Minister, for the very interesting answer. It is good that you were able to outline the method and the results. It also shows how important it is to continue this work. I am pleased that a solution has already been found for two employees. Apparently, you received a positive opinion from the Treasury Inspectorate. That is not always the case in the past few months, I understand. The possible results from such a competition may be particularly important to clarify crimes. I hope you will manage to keep sufficient staff at the NICC for that interesting investigation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-03-54-commissie-ic103x.u8	Mr President, Minister, a number of fellow MEPs have already asked you a number of questions over the past few weeks and months about the non-implementation of the staffing framework in various courts and courts. Certainly the situation in East Flanders was discussed, which is really precarious because several chambers at the court of first instance have already been closed. Mr Van Hecke, for example, has asked a question recently. You have already stated that you will soon be looking for solutions to the problem by speeding up the filling of vacancies. I also remember the debate on the policy paper and the debate on the budget, during which you said that you want to achieve the savings contained in the federal government agreement at a calm and realistic pace, particularly less quickly at the beginning of the legislature and a little faster by the end of it. Of course, I understand and accept that the federal government stands for a savings plan and needs to become financially more self-sufficient. However, this must be done intelligently. What about the various criminal chambers, in particular the tax, financial and social chambers, which deal with such matters in the courts and courts? They carry out a crucial task of collecting sometimes significant amounts due to the State, either in the form of taxes or in the form of fines or forfeited goods. The magistrates in these chambers shall pay fines and forfeitures, the amount of which shall often constitute a multiple of the remuneration owed by the State in the form of a wage or wage. From a purely budgetary point of view, the magistrates in those chambers provide the State with more than they cost the State. Moreover, should a more effective policy of criminal enforcement be pursued, the proceeds generated by fines and confiscations could also be collected better and more quickly. You are at the beginning of the legislature. The above are a number of peripherals. It would be logical, therefore, to consider the state's intelligent financial management and at least to safeguard and even strengthen those chambers rather than merely being the subject of the planned savings. Consideration should also be given to strengthening the means of investigation and support for magistrates in the prosecution of these offences. That's why I have the following questions. Firstly, are tax, economic, financial or social chambers closed at the criminal courts today because the staff is not filled in? If so, what do you intend to do about it in the short term? Do you foresee a specific solution with regard to the rooms that would already be closed? Secondly, are you considering strengthening the staffing of these specific chambers, as this could lead to a financially beneficial end result for the public authorities? Thirdly and finally, are you planning changes to facilitate the collection of fines and forfeiture of property?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-03-54-commissie-ic103x.u9	Mr President, Mr Lachaert, I do not have any figures on possible closures of tax, economic, financial or social chambers. It shall be the responsibility of the first Presidents and the Presidents to organise the classification of Chambers and to determine the capacity for which matters are to be devoted. As I said at the committee meeting on 22 January, I found in my contacts with the judicial authorities that, in these times of reflection on the optimisation of staff deployment, they are thinking exactly about specialisation, either through the concentration of certain matters in a department, for example through the division of cases rules, or through the mobile deployment of magistrates in the jurisdiction. As far as the collection of fines and forfeited goods is concerned, there is indeed room for improvement. However, I must stress that the collection of fines, court fees and confiscations is also and above all the task of the recipients of Domains, who belong to the FPS Finance. This does not alter the fact that justice can also make a contribution in this area. In a recent past, efforts have already been made to effectively obtain imposed fines, court fees and confiscations in the Treasury. Reference can be made to the law of 11 February 2014, which introduced the criminal execution investigation. This whole new type of investigation is registered in the Code of Criminal Procedure and is defined as the whole of acts intended to detect, identify and seize the assets on which the sentence for payment of a fine, a special confiscation or court fees can be carried out. Over the past few months, the public prosecutors and the public prosecutors have been preparing to launch such investigations. Through the College of Attorneys General, a circular was sent to explain to the prosecutors the need to deal with such investigations. At the beginning of 2015, the necessary training days were organised through the Institute for the Judicial Training, on which the magistrates were able to discuss in detail all the possibilities of this new legislation. In several sectors, internal agreements have been and are being made to use this new instrument. The same Act of 11 February 2014 also provided for the establishment of a consultative body for the coordination of the recovery of non-tax debts in criminal matters, with the various actors involved in this issue seeing each other regularly and developing various measures within the framework of an action plan agreed by the other Justice and Finance Ministers. In addition, there are concrete plans to greatly improve the operation and role of the Central Commission for the Confiscation and Declaration. A draft law is currently being prepared in which the law of 26 March 2003 establishing the COIV can be substantially amended in order to strengthen COIV in its role as an interface between Justice, Registry and Public Prosecutors, on the one hand, and the FPS Finance, on the other. In this context, new provisions were introduced which would reduce court fees, but also provisions that would increase COIV's management tasks in relation to seized asset benefits, making it easier to recover confiscations and fines handed down by the court on previously seized funds or assets. It also provides for a staff reinforcement of COIV, in addition to and above the improvement of existing ICT support, allowing COIV to act more effectively in its legal role as coordinator of the enforcement of judgments and judgments, which are forfeiture.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-03-54-commissie-ic103x.u10	Thank you, Minister, for your detailed reply. As far as the occupation of the boxes is concerned, I understand that you say that you do not have any figures on the closure of rooms. However, I think I know that there are, at least in East Flanders, and that is, of course, not a good thing. Knowing that these kind of chambers provide the State with money, I believe that this matter should be included in the discussions with the Presidents. If we are to come up with a forward-looking plan for justice, and we have to look at the budget, then we must look at both the revenue and the expenditure side. It does not help to close such chambers; on the contrary, they must be able to function very well in order to have justice. As far as fines and forfeited goods are concerned, I have heard many initiatives. Thank you for that and I fully support you in that. Of course, we will continue to follow up on this matter in this committee. The strengthening of COIV is also a very good thing. We are looking forward to that, because there is a great deal of revenue to be made available to the federal state in this area too.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-03-54-commissie-ic103x.u11	Mr Minister, I would like to talk about the figures relating to rapes. The official figures are hallucinatingly high. For 2012, police statistics indicate 3 053 rape complaints. That's actually 8 a day, something to think about. We also assume that this is only the tip of the iceberg because several studies show that only 10% of the victims make an official report. This is, of course, a subject that women's organisations have rightly been concerned with for a very long time. Very recently, the Women's Council has collected a number of anonymous testimonials from victims with the website "I am no longer silent." A number of recommendations have also been made to the government. I would like to emphasise very strongly that there is actually very little lack of legislation. It's not like there's any big gaps out there. There are sufficient resources, both at the judicial level and at the Home Office, for the police to deal with rapes. However, women's organisations have repeatedly noticed that in practice the application really leaves a lot to be desired. A first major recommendation made by the Dutch Women's Council is more coordination between three departments, namely Justice, Home Affairs and the whole welfare sector. However, they also make a number of very specific recommendations. In the field of justice, it is very specific about the dismissal of cases. We often notice that the 10 % that is indicated is eventually dropped. We do not believe that there will be enough action to find and condemn the perpetrators. They are asking me very simply, Minister. In the meantime, have you taken note of the recommendations of the Women's Council? Are you going to answer that? Do you have any specific measures in mind in this respect?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-03-54-commissie-ic103x.u12	I am, of course, aware of the recommendations of the Women's Council. Crimes against physical integrity are also a policy priority for me, as I indicated in my policy statement and policy paper. The problem requires a multidisciplinary approach. In this context, I would like to refer to the Protocol on Child Abuse Justice and Home Affairs, the National Action Plan on Trafficking in Human Beings and the National Action Plan on Partner Violence. The latter is now being transformed into a new national action plan on gender-related violence for the 2015-2019 period under the coordination of the Institute for Equality of Women and Men. Justice is an important partner in this. The plan will also be fully aligned with the Council of Europe CAHVIO Convention. This is the Istanbul Convention against Violence against Women. It will contain a separate section on sexual violence. The recommendations of the Women's Council will also be discussed in this context and assessed against the broader policy approach. For the initiatives that are being taken, I would like to refer to the following. We continue to focus on the sensitisation of victims. Rapid trace testing on and off the body is crucial for building up the burden of proof against the suspected offender. Initiatives such as the www.hulpnarape.be campaign therefore deserve all support. The new DNA law shortened the investigation deadlines, speeded up data transmission after the DNA databases and extended the content of the Convicts database. From now on, the national cell within the Public Prosecutor's Office assigns the DNA code numbers and the DNA profiles from the Belgian databases are automatically compared to foreign databases. Clear criminal policy guidelines on DNA legislation were also drawn up. I am convinced that the use and analysis of the Sexual Aggression Set, SAS, and an optimal DNA procedure will lead to more offenders being caught thanks to solid evidence. The average dismissal rate in rape cases has been around 40% in recent years, but the number of dismissal decisions has declined in recent years. This shows that the continued commitment of our magistrates, who do take such matters seriously and give a clear response to the complaints, makes a difference. Finally, Justice also invests heavily in the care of victims. I refer to the new circulars on the victim reception in the courts and public prosecutors. The new laws adopted following the Special Committee on Sexual Abuse also contain a lot of victim-friendly measures.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-03-54-commissie-ic103x.u13	Mr President, Minister, I am of course aware of the new National Action Plan on Gender Violence. I am particularly pleased with that. I am also pleased to hear that the recommendations are being taken into account in the context of all these plans. However, I cannot agree to a certain level of determination. We clearly have a double problem here. The willingness to report is far too small, so we still do not really have a good view of the real number. This willingness to make a declaration also has to do with the high percentage of dismissals and the feeling that they are not being taken seriously. I am glad to hear that there has been a falling trend in the rate of dismissal, but I think we should give the full pound so that women know very clearly that their complaint is actually being made when they go to the police. Despite falling figures, however, this remains a problem. I am therefore counting on you, Minister, to pay the necessary attention to this. I suggest that we keep following this closely.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-03-54-commissie-ic103x.u14	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Lanjri's 2307 will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-03-54-commissie-ic103x.u15	Mr President, Minister, a few months ago the Disability Act was passed. The purpose of the Act was to improve the care and respect of the incapacitated, to better protect their rights, and to review certain institutions, such as the interim administration of property, to provide for a system of assistance to the person and his or her property based on what he or she was still able to exercise. In addition, the power of the justice of the peace has been strengthened. The Supreme Council of Justice issued a rather critical opinion on 17 December 2014 on the control of the administration of protected persons. It calls for improving, optimizing, harmonizing and professionalizing the oversight of such administrations by justices of the peace and makes a series of recommendations. Minister, I will ask you a series of questions, which are quite long, I recognize. Therefore, I see no objection to receiving part of your responses in writing. It is true that the law has only been applicable for a year, but can we already take stock? Above all, has adequate training been offered and implemented for justices of the peace, so that they can learn about the changes, especially philosophical changes, proposed by the new law? Have there been any changes on the ground? Is there a clear idea of these changes in terms of care, the designation of the trusted person and the decrease in the number of cases assigned to lawyers? Have you read the advice of the Supreme Council of Justice? What follow-up have you given or intend to give to this opinion? Have the current files been revised to reflect the new legislation and its new philosophy? In how many cases is an administrator still appointed when a trusted person has proposed? In how many cases did the administered person request a change of director or a change of director by a trusted person, which is permitted by law today? In how many cases has this trusted person been authorized by the justice of the peace, since the law insists that the will of the person must be taken into account? The justice of the peace is called upon to play a more important role in this area. Unfortunately, many cases of malfeasance and collusion between lawyers and justices of the peace have been mentioned in the press. What is the procedure in place when misappropriation and complicity are suspected or established? How can families and trusted individuals express their grievances, and especially to whom? Usually, they didn't have anyone to talk to. How many justices of the peace have been challenged in such cases? You are aware of the resounding trials and the real risks that exist in these matters where money plays a significant role. What have you put in place or plan to put in place to ensure the proper management of cases throughout the judiciary? I turn to my second question about the maximum number of cases that lawyers could handle in the administration of property, given the actual capacity of the lawyer to deal with them. The Supreme Council of Justice recommends that an asset administrator manage 80 to 100 files simultaneously. It also recommends that justices of the peace apply this limitation even without the royal decree that has not yet been adopted. Has this royal decree been taken in the meantime? If so, how many files can be submitted by counsel? If not, when do you plan to take it? If this takes time, could you not write a circular encouraging justices of the peace to respect the advice of the Supreme Council of Justice? Finally, who controls the effective handling of these files by lawyers?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-03-54-commissie-ic103x.u16	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Lalieux, I have the answers to both of your questions. I'll be as brief as possible. The law of 17 March 2013 reforming disability regimes introducing a new protection status in accordance with human dignity entered into force on 1 September 2014. Article 497/1 provides for the possibility for the King to make the exercise of the function of administrator subject to certain conditions, in particular by limiting the number of persons of whom one may be the administrator. This provision is taken over from the old system of provisional administration. As it stands, there is no initiative in this direction. I am considering, in consultation with all the parties concerned, the possibility of implementing an appropriate framework for the exercise of the function of administrator, with the objective being a good enforcement of the law and respect for the objective pursued by the legislator. I also intend to assess, in consultation with all the parties concerned, the application of this law and, where appropriate, to consider the enforcement measures that would be necessary in order to enable it to be properly implemented and to achieve the objective pursued by the legislator. As part of this review, I will take into account the opinion of the Supreme Council of Justice on the oversight of the administration of protected persons, which has attracted my full attention. In 2014, the Judicial Training Institute and the Judicial College's Commission for Modernisation organized eight training days entitled "New systems for the protection of persons with disabilities" for active and alternate justices of the peace, appeal magistrates, third-year trainees, chief clerks and clerks of the justices of the peace and the courts of first instance, and referenda and prosecutors' lawyers. Training for clerks and administrative staff of the justices of the peace is under way. At the end of 2015, new training will be organised for judges on practical problems encountered in the field following the entry into force of the law of 17 March 2013. My services do not have figures on the number of professional director designations, trusted individuals or changes to them. These data are not recorded anywhere. Since 1 September 2014, the date of entry into force of the Act of 17 March 2013, the contact details of the administrator are recorded in the national register. In the case of persons placed under a protective measure decided under the former regime, the above-mentioned law organizes a transitional period, the duration of which varies according to the type of protection enjoyed by the person concerned, allowing the justice of the peace to adapt the protective measure to the new status. Thus, if the provisional administrations settled prior to the entry into force of the new law have not been subject to prior adjustment, they will be subject, on 1 September 2016, to the new provisions relating to the administration of the property. By 1 September 2018 at the latest, the justice of the peace must assess each judicial protection measure and may terminate it or amend it by means of a reasoned order. The control of the administrator's performance of his or her duties is regulated by the above-mentioned Act. The latter contains specific and binding provisions in this regard. Furthermore, the order of the justice of the peace may be subject to the usual remedies, namely appeal and cassation. The stickman is competent to deal with any complaint against lawyers of his order concerning violations of the principles of dignity, probity and delicacy, which form the basis of the profession of lawyer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-03-54-commissie-ic103x.u17	Minister, thank you for your answer. In view of the new philosophy of this law and the work done in parliament, it is crucial to organise this appropriate framework of all actors. It is also important to inform families. A trustworthy person seems more appropriate to me than a property administrator, who can be very distant. Similarly, orders will have to be made in order to avoid drifts. I will come back later on the timing of the evaluation, since you did not communicate it to me. I hope it won't take place in twelve months. I know you have a lot of work to do, but this is an important subject. I also hope that you will respect the opinion of the Supreme Council of Justice by drastically limiting the number of cases. Indeed, when administered three hundred, it is impossible to properly manage the property of anyone, except to know exactly what the situation is. Finally, I believe that justices of the peace should be made more accountable to some lawyers. There are very sensitive files which are now published in the press and/or which are the subject of complaints. This must not happen again.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-03-54-commissie-ic103x.u18	Question No 2447 by Mr Denis Ducrame is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-03-54-commissie-ic103x.u19	Mr President, Minister, a few days ago, the press reported that an agreement had been reached within the government to increase registration fees. Tariffs would go from simple to five times in some jurisdictions. For civil actions, e.g. before the peace court or the police court: from 40 to 80 euros; before the court of first instance or the commercial court: from 100 to 500 euros; before the court of appeal: from 210 to 800 euros; before the labour court: from 600 to 800 euros; before the court of cassation: from 375 to 1,200 euros, etc. Your objective, through this increase in tariffs, would be to discourage the litigants from going to court with a view to favouring constructive dialogue and thereby reducing the workload of the judiciary and the number of cases. Minister, you want to improve constructive dialogue between citizens who claim opposing rights. What do you intend to promote or implement in order to really improve the dialogue between the parties? Do you intend, for example, to facilitate access to mediation or other alternative dispute resolution? Legal aid is, of course, maintained for the most vulnerable, although the reforms announced do not reassure us, but what about those with a higher just income or even an average income who complain about the cost of justice and the fact that it has become impeccable? Do you not risk limiting access to justice for those who make up the vast majority of the litigants and creating two-tiered justice by increasing the rights to be put on the roll? The most affluent people, the big companies keep easy access; and the others, the most impoverished? What about a posteriori reassessment of the right to register if the amount is not at all in line with the amounts claimed at the origin of the dispute? Don't you worry that the parties and/or their lawyers will tend to underestimate the estimated amount of the dispute to reduce the registration fee and, if so, what solution do you propose to remedy it?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-03-54-commissie-ic103x.u20	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the reform of role rights does not in any way prevent access to justice. On the contrary, it aims to ensure its sustainability. The fundamental right of access to justice is safeguarded for the socially and economically weak by the maintenance of the legal aid system. The weaker party socially and economically can obtain a partial or total exemption from the payment of legal fees, if it proves that its income is insufficient. It should be noted that the tariff, applied today to each instance, is maintained for low-value applications in order to ensure access to justice. In other words, the first access to justice is not compromised. In the case of actions where greater interests are involved, the right of appointment increases proportionally according to the value of the action or an appeal on appeal or in cassation. A purely linear increase is therefore not targeted. On the contrary, enforcement rights are being tried to make them proportionate not only to the running costs of justice, but also to the capacity of the litigants. It should also be pointed out that the amounts of duty on duty are in general still still lower than those applied in other Member States, even with the proposed increase. With regard to the underestimation of the value of the application for the parties, it should be stressed that the applicant still has to receive the decision of the judge, which will force him to make a correct assessment of the value of the application and thus of the right of assignment to be collected. Furthermore, it should be borne in mind that lawyers must respect a duty of ethics according to which lawyers must exercise their profession with expertise and are also bound to respect the principles of dignity, probity and delicacy that form the basis of the profession. If there was to be an abuse, the abuse would remain limited to the first instance, the value being better known in the degree of appeal. In conclusion and in response to your question on the practical possibilities for encouraging mediation, I am convinced that, in the face of the difficulties posed by the high cost of justice, the parties must be encouraged to resort. This requires, however, a comprehensive approach that includes several parameters including the management of the cost of the trial and the accountability of the litigant to his or her own litigation. Consideration should continue on this point.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-03-54-commissie-ic103x.u21	Minister, thank you for your answer. It is well known that there is the great principle of access to justice. But this must not remain a principle. The most disadvantaged must have access to justice. I am thinking here, in particular, of those who do not qualify for legal aid. You say that the reform does not in any way limit access to justice. For my part, however, I believe that this is the case for a large group of people who do not qualify for legal aid. In doing so, we're going to be faced with two-speed justice. If, as you have said, the capacity of the litigant is taken into account, for some people, it will be like passing an entry-level test of access to justice. In other words, those who do not have the means will not be able to stand trial.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-03-54-commissie-ic103x.u22	Mr President, Minister, the press reports that over the next five years, at least one third of the country's 2,500 magistrates will or will be of retirement age. On the part of the justices of the peace, the percentage would even rise to 58 per cent. Bodies such as the Judicial Advisory Committee, the Supreme Council of Justice and trade union associations are concerned about the problems that these massive departures may cause. Moreover, this phenomenon, coupled with drastic budgetary savings, delays in the publication of vacant places and the freezing of recruitment, endangers the judicial institution as a whole, since it is expected that only one in six magistrates will be replaced. To fill this void, Minister, you propose to offer judges who so wish the opportunity to work full-time until the age of 70, while the legal age of retirement for judges is currently 67 years, with the exception of the Court of Cassation and the Council of State where it is already 70 years old. The Association of Magistrates' Trade Unions believes that this proposal will solve nothing structurally. Minister, how many places do you think will be filled by this career extension? What are your estimates in this regard? What other measures do you intend to take to ensure full judicial management despite the age pyramid in the judiciary? How long?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-03-54-commissie-ic103x.u23	Mr President, Mrs Özen, an estimate of the number of places for magistrates which can be filled by the extension of their careers is difficult to estimate, since this is an option under the initiative of the judges concerned. The introduction of this faculty nevertheless responds to the wishes expressed by several of them. This measure is only one of the possible answers to the problem posed by the age pyramid. I remain convinced that with the judicious use of available resources, we are able to meet the needs. I think it is useful to recall, as can be seen from the European Commission's 2014 report on the effectiveness of justice, that our country has more judges per 100 000 inhabitants (21.7) than France (13.6) and the Netherlands (19.1). Judicial officers are currently filled at an overall rate of 93.4 per cent, with seats and public prosecutors combined. However, it is important to reduce the workload of these judges. I will shortly submit to the government a draft bill that will contain a number of measures to reduce this burden, routine or unnecessary, in civil, commercial, social and criminal proceedings. The government agreement also provides that the opportunity to review the map of the judicial cantons will be examined in consultation with the justices of the peace themselves and with respect for the proximity of justice to the citizen in order to achieve a better distribution of the workload between them.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-03-54-commissie-ic103x.u24	Minister, you say that it is difficult to estimate the number of magistrates who will prolong their careers, as this is done on a voluntary basis. You also say that this is one of the answers to the structural problems faced by the judiciary. We know that the aim is precisely to reverse this pyramid of ages. Do you therefore have a commitment from these magistrates, who wish to stay longer, to work with young judicial trainees to enable the transmission of their experience?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-03-54-commissie-ic103x.u25	Mr. President, Minister, according to the press, the boss of the OKC sect has been in hiding in Aiseau-Presles since 2001. As a reminder, in 1997 the parliamentary committee of inquiry on sects had pinned Ogyen Kunzang Choling (OKC), as one of the harmful sectarian organizations active in Belgium. The judicial consequences of the Chamber's report had not been long since a rain of searches had fallen in Belgium and abroad in the centres founded by Robert Spatz. There are 117 preventions in this case which will be the subject of a trial before the Brussels Correctional Court. But there is still something new in this case, since the spokesman for the Brussels Prosecutor's Office has in fact indicated that Robert Spatz and his wife had illegally settled in Aiseau-Presles, from where I came from, where Robert Spatz is suspected of having committed new acts, namely rapes and indecent attacks on a minor. This brings to five the number of young women, minors at the time of the incident, who filed a complaint against Robert Spatz for rape and/or indecent assaults on their person. In addition to the acts of morals already mentioned, the indictment speaks of abductions of children, from the age of four, in order to indoctrinate them, far from their parents. Minister, a hearing in the Council Chamber was scheduled for December 2008 to commence proceedings in this case. How can we explain that it took more than six years for the Indictments Chamber to order the removal from prison when the investigation, which lasted eleven years, was apparently closed in 2008? Without prejudice to the presumption of innocence, which is a fundamental principle in our rule of law, what precautionary measures can be considered with regard to persons suspected of having committed such serious acts? New facts appear to have occurred long after the investigation and prosecution began. Finally, in view of the slow pace of justice in this case, is there not a risk of exceeding the reasonable time limit, with the result that the proceedings are inadmissible or even acquittal?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-03-54-commissie-ic103x.u26	Mr President, Mrs Özen, let me first point out that, in my capacity as Minister of Justice, I cannot, as a general rule, mention elements relating to individual cases in progress. However, the following elements have been forwarded to me by the Brussels Prosecutor General in order to allow me to answer your question. In fact, it deals with two criminal proceedings pending in the judicial district of Brussels. The first procedure consists of the 117 preventions you refer to. The file represents a volume of fifty minutes and documents. The Public Prosecutor's Office of the King of Brussels requested the Chamber of Counsel to refer the accused to the Criminal Court by written requisition of 3 June 2008. It targets eleven defendants, both natural and legal persons. The investigation file was accompanied by a judicial information file opened by the Public Prosecutor's Office in 2005 in order to verify the situation of the community in question. On 12 November 2010, the Chamber of Counsel ruled on the requests for removal of the Public Prosecutor's Office by ordering the referral to the Correctional Court, as required by the Public Prosecutor's Office. All of the defendants appealed against this removal order. On 23 October 2013, the Court of Appeal, Indictments Division, upheld the order appealed against, i.e. referral to the Correctional Court, noting that the reasonable period of time would be exceeded and stating that it would be up to the trial judge to draw the consequences provided for by law. The eleven accused filed an appeal in cassation against the judgement of the indictment chamber. On 7 January 2001,5 all appeals were dismissed by the Court of Cassation. The second criminal procedure focuses on suspected acts of rape of a minor over the age of 16 years, with the aggravating circumstances of the kidnapping of the victim and of the authority exercised by the suspect over the victim. These allegedly established acts of morality, which only a court of judgment has the power to determine, would have taken place until the end of 2002. The complaint for these facts was filed on May 10, 2007. Duties such as psychological expertise and a rogatory commission were carried out in the context of the investigation. On 21 September 2010, the Public Prosecutor's Office established its request for referral and the case was first decided before the Chamber of Counsel. But on 24 March 2011, additional duties were requested by a co-indictee. On 6 April 2011, the investigating judge rejected this request for additional duties. Referred to by the appeal of the co-indictee, the indictment chamber on 7 March 2012 upheld the order of the investigating magistrate. On 27 June 2012, the Chamber of Counsel ordered the transfer of the three accused concerned to a correctional court. Referred to by their appeal, the Indictments Chamber confirmed the order for removal as a whole. On 11 September 2013, the Court of Cassation dismissed the appeals in cassation brought by the three accused. The Public Prosecutor's Office decided to bring the two criminal proceedings simultaneously before a correctional court, which explains why the second procedure was not fixed before the court until the Court of Cassation delivered its judgment in the first procedure, which took place on 7 January 2015. Both cases are now settled before the Correctional Court at the March 30, 2015 hearing. An agenda will probably have to be set by the court, both of which, in the view of the public prosecutor's office, would require a certain amount of debate. With respect to the precautionary measures with respect to suspected persons raised by your question, it will be up to the correctional court to determine the appropriate measures if it considers the established facts. However, this will not be a precautionary measure but a possible penalty. Of course, as you have done, it is clear here that the principle of presumption of innocence, to which my answer cannot under any circumstances be interpreted as prejudice. With regard to the observance of the reasonable time limit, it will be for the correctional court to draw the consequences provided for by law from the finding that the indictments chamber has exceeded that time limit in one of the two proceedings. It is up to the court to draw the consequences of this overtaking. The prosecution is of the opinion that this issue should not result in the inadmissibility of the proceedings. If the court determines the facts, it may impose a conviction on a simple conviction or a sentence lower than the minimum penalty prescribed by law, but it may also simply impose a sentence lower than the one it would have imposed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-03-54-commissie-ic103x.u27	Minister, thank you for your answer. This raises the more general question of the sacrosanct principle of presumption of innocence vis-à-vis a case that has lasted for ten years already because of the slowness of the justice system. But it is important to protect society and avoid recidivism. Of course, you have just been appointed in charge of the Department of Justice. I don't blame you. Between these two periods, surveillance must be exercised on these dangerous persons. In this case, they travel in nature. We learn it in the press and it's a huge concern. Even in cases of presumption of innocence, it is important to protect society from such dangerous persons.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-03-54-commissie-ic103x.u28	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, we had already questioned you during the review of your policy note on the shortage of staff at the Central Seizure and Confiscation Body (CCSO). Your government had decided to drastically plan the remuneration of the staff while the Director General was demanding, for his part, the commitment of 21 additional people allowing to recover tens of millions of euros for the state funds and perhaps for your budget which is in need of it. In the absence of human resources, as many as 40,000 cases still remain to be processed. 40 000 files that could bring back 494 million euros! But in the absence of sufficient human resources and in the absence of the organization of trials and public sales to liquidate the seized property, the money sleeps on an account and the goods are recorded in warehouses. Minister, you promised us that you would come with budget slips and a revision of your budget at the end of this month. Have you already discussed the negotiations on this issue? Can the OCSC expect the additional staff requested to carry out its missions? What do you intend to implement in the short and medium term in order to be able to recover as soon as possible this manna of money indispensable to the State budget and the Justice FPS in particular? I believe that the citizens who are being asked to tighten their belts, that the judicial staff who are being called upon to do so and to work under inhuman conditions, that legal aid lawyers who are being asked to accept a reduction in their remuneration would not be able to understand that there is no effective and prompt attempt to recover that money and avoid losing it by letting the seized or confiscated property lose its value because justice has not been diligent enough.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-03-54-commissie-ic103x.u29	Mr President, Mrs Özen, at the end of last year I had a long meeting with the Director of the CSCO. I can therefore confirm that I am fully aware of the various personnel and other needs of the CSCO. I have also been more recently and to the extent that I am committed to finding solutions. Nevertheless, the figures you are putting forward seem to me to have to be nuanced. The amount of EUR 494 million you refer to is the total amount of capital managed by the OCSC. It is not intended to be allocated in full to the State budget. It goes without saying that some of this money after a court decision will be returned to the persons seized. It is not possible to outline an order of magnitude in this respect, since by definition these data are not known to us. The number of cases under way within the CSCB is around 40,000. In more than half of the cases, we are still awaiting a judicial decision that will take a position on the final allocation of the seized funds. The Director of the OCSC is clearly seeking a strengthening of the OCSC staff framework to ensure that all legal missions of this organization can be completed and that, structurally, backlogs of approximately 16,000 can be processed within a reasonable time frame. These 16,000 backlog cases represent capital of the order of €200 million. The needs of the OCSC are certainly taken into account in the ongoing discussions of budgetary control, together with the other departments of the Judicial Order. In addition to the personnel issues facing the CSO, I am also attentive to the CTI needs that are needed to enable the CSO to work in a more modern, timely and efficient manner. Earlier this week, the management of the OCSC explained its needs in this area to my colleagues. Consideration of this aspect is under way.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-03-54-commissie-ic103x.u30	Minister, thank you. You're saying you're committed to finding solutions. Of course I have no doubt about that. You met with your counterparts who told you about the lack of staff. You say you need to provide a tool, which is the CTI, to be able to work effectively, but in commission, you have postponed this project to 2016 or 2017. It is really difficult to set up such a system. Since justice is slow, since it lasts a long time, since there are storage costs too, and often the person, after conviction, is insolvent, it is up to the state to bear the costs that it does not need.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-03-54-commissie-ic103x.u31	Mr President, Minister, at a press conference following the Washington Summit on the fight against terrorism, your colleague from the Interior referred to a list of 350 to 380 names of potential terrorist fighters and the possibility of integrating this list into a dynamic database, which is more widely accessible to the various police services. This announcement has, as might be expected, elicited feedback from actors on the ground, in particular with regard to access to the list and its dissemination within the services. However, before even considering the appropriateness of responding to this request, a series of questions on the list itself arise. Indeed, the nature or legal status of this list is not clear. Is it a police file or a judicial database? Are we faced with information in the sense of State Security? The nuances can be important and numerous. On the other hand, the very question of how a name enters this list may also arise. Jambon presented it as "recording potential jihadist fighters". Even in the current circumstances, which require special attention to candidates at the outset, there is also a need to guard against the dramatic consequences for those whose names would be taken up there. What are the criteria for listing a name on this list? What is the competent supervisory body: the P Committee, the R Committee, the supervisory body? In the same vein, could you clarify the criteria for deleting a name entered on this list? This is essential to ensure the right to privacy. As I understand it, the persons concerned have not committed any act that is considered an offence. If this list has, a fortiori, a vocation to be shared with foreign authorities, and even if the threat can be real, the monitoring of the information contained therein will be made more difficult. Finally, the study of this list leads me to ask you about the means used to follow up on it. Monitoring 380 people requires substantial human and material resources. What about this stage?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-03-54-commissie-ic103x.u32	Mr President, Mrs Özen, the measure to which you refer is one of the twelve provisions decided by the government in the context of the fight against terrorism, and more specifically in the revision of the Foreign Fighters circular of 25 September 2014 produced by the Ministers of Justice and the Interior. The aim is to improve the list already drawn up by the OCAM in application of this circular with a view to an individual assessment of the persons included in it. Some practical aspects still need to be discussed, particularly as they have an impact in terms of resources. As regards the legal basis, the legislator has set up an information system within the OCAM consisting of a data bank and working files. The purpose and operating procedures of this bank are described in the Royal Decree of 28 November 2006. The seven OCAM support services, including the two intelligence services, as well as the police services, are required to provide the information at their disposal that is relevant to the fulfilment of OCAM's legal tasks. Embargo procedures are also provided for by law, particularly in the case of judicial intelligence. The OCAM shall be subject to joint control by the P and R Committees. The Foreign Fighters Circular states that the OCAM manages and distributes to the services the list of residents who are at risk of leaving or leaving for or returning to a conflict zone. In addition, in application of this circular, the role of the OCAM is further clarified, since it is responsible for drawing up a list of Belgians and/or residents of Belgium returning from a jihadist combat zone. In practice, this list is updated within the local task forces, which include the State Security, the federal and local police and the OCAM. Individuals are registered on the basis of information from all services. The list is updated monthly by the OCAM on the basis of the information collected. Individuals are added and deleted using the same method and periodicity. The follow-up of persons whose names are listed is not the responsibility of OCAM, but rather of the State Security and the police. The discussion on means of follow-up will be part of a broader debate for the security sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-03-54-commissie-ic103x.u33	Minister, thank you for your detailed answer. As far as control is concerned, I think your answer is quite clear. The difficulty is this: a person is on the list, but he or she does not know. Therefore, it cannot contest its mention in this document. Similarly, it is impossible to withdraw from it. The circumstances are, of course, exceptional, but no action can be taken to the detriment of safeguarding certain rights such as privacy rights. This limitation is therefore problematic.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-03-54-commissie-ic103x.u34	Mr President, Minister, last week the press reported on a case which had been severely compromised before the 14th Chamber of the Court of Appeal in Brussels. At the request of the Ministry of Justice, the prosecution destroyed exhibits, including two boxes of documents, for lack of space and resources, without copies being made. The storage problem raised at the Brussels courthouse would not be an exception since all the Wallonia courthouses would also find it difficult to store their exhibits. In addition, the employees of the transplants in question work in deplorable conditions. Luc Hennart, the first president of the Brussels Court of First Instance, said that "the people who work there spend the day in a cellar, without light, with dust and dirt, and even the sewers that collapse. It is a matter of concern and unworthy of justice in the 20th century." Minister, do you have a comprehensive strategic vision to deal with storage problems in different courthouses? Do you intend to increase the scope of registry staff in order to ensure the proper functioning of the justice system and avoid the destruction of evidence due to lack of space and staff?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-03-54-commissie-ic103x.u35	Mr President, Mrs Özen, my administration conducted an investigation under the previous legislature into the way in which seized exhibits and exhibits are managed in our courts. The aim was to improve storage, increase safety at work for staff and improve management efficiency. The problem with exhibits is that too many exhibits are stored for too long under conditions that are not always adapted. As a result of this investigation, proposals for action in various areas have recently been presented to the Joint Management Committee of the FPS Justice in which representatives of the two Colleges of the Judicial Order are present. The proposed actions include the creation of centralized depots outside the courts or the designation of reference magistrates for exhibits in each prosecutor's office and court. Other actions aim at better management of the flow of coins, in particular to enable a final decision to be taken on coins that have no or more value for the manifestation of truth. Priority actions are still being set between my administration and my firm. Since the law of 25 April 2014, there has been a legal framework for the destruction of seized documents. The law provides that the prosecutor shall order the taking of samples or a photographic or video recording of the property if the manifestation of the truth so requires. In addition, I recently concluded two protocols with my Defence colleague to organize the evacuation of ammunition and the temporary storage of fireworks seized by FPS Economy inspectors. I also want to step up collaboration with Finance to facilitate the sale of confiscated parts.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-03-54-commissie-ic103x.u36	Minister, thank you for your answer. You also know that this is a multi-year problem. All you have to do is go to the evidence office in Brussels and ask where it is. It's not even Ali Baba's cave anymore. You have to have strong nerves to find a room there. I am therefore glad that you are proposing solutions such as a reference magistrate or working with your colleague from the interior to relieve congestion at first. In this particular case, however, there is a big mistake: the least that can be done is to make a copy of the documents if the trial is still pending. It's a little surreal!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-03-54-commissie-ic103x.u37	Debates of the European Parliament 2491 by Mrs Kristien Van Vaerenbergh has been postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-03-54-commissie-ic103x.u38	Minister, the College of Courts and Courts, fifteen days ago, issued a warning to the government before budgetary control, arguing that "we are moving towards a frontal collision between what is being asked of us and the means granted". The newly created College believes that Justice is no longer in a position, because of the budgetary restrictions imposed on it by the government, to be decently delivered. Indeed, the overall budget of Justice increased from €2 billion in 2014 to €1.6 billion in 2015. Pending budgetary control, no more vacant places are published, while the frameworks are not yet complete. I can hear you, for some services, we are 93 or 95%. I can assure you that in some places, the situation cries famine and not a little! So, at some point, we will have to ask ourselves about the fate of 93%. Major savings are expected in terms of staff and operating costs. Under the current conditions, despite your reassuring remarks, the College of Courts and Courts considers that it is excluded from fighting the backlog of cases in the government agreement and that the policy would like to see a reduction. Investment budgets are also particularly affected by economies. However, computerization was supposed to be a priority objective. According to the College, close to 50 million euros would be needed to develop and install an efficient network. Moreover, these investments could lead to savings. Mr Minister, you have certainly heard of this alarm cry. What answers can you give already? How do you intend to ensure the goal of computerization of the judicial world, even if you have postponed it to 2016, facing a 30% reduction in investment costs? Did you meet with the College at the exit of the press and have you had a budget discussion with the College?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-03-54-commissie-ic103x.u39	Mr Massin, of course, I have already had several discussions with the College about these concerns. Most recently, I had a meeting with the latter on Wednesday, 25 February, well after the press release to which you refer. I share the College's view that we are facing a major challenge, including budgetary challenges. That is why I defended before my colleagues in the government the idea that savings should be made at a different rate. The aim is not that, over the term of the legislature, the savings be lower, but that they be distributed differently over time. For a number of priorities that are reflected in the government agreement or that are at the top of the agenda, following current events, I call for more resources to be made available. How are we going to be able to move towards a new justice system, in this difficult budgetary context? Thanks to a more efficient and better quality operation. That is what I will try to explain in the coming weeks when I present my justice plan. I have already mentioned this on several occasions. This is a combination of different measures and initiatives in various areas. It is true that the budget for computerisation also had to be substantially reduced in 2015 compared to 2014. But for computerization, the blocking factor is not the budget, but rather the ability to carry out computer projects to a successful end with tangible results in the field. There are now too few projects among those initiated which, for various reasons, are completed and produce the expected effects. In 2015, we will focus on this aspect. This means that, contrary to what is implied by a reduced budget, we will achieve better results in reducing workload by the end of 2015 compared to 2014. All this has to be seen in relation to the simplification of procedures provided for in the bill pot rotten. In the years following 2015, the investment budget for the CTI is expected to increase. This will be possible by rationalising the ICT budget itself by economies of scale, by shutting down old IT structures that have been renewed, etc. and transferring to the investment budget for the CTI part of the profits resulting from the efficiency gains that we will achieve in other budget items through the implementation of IT projects. I am thinking here, for example, of postal charges.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-03-54-commissie-ic103x.u40	Minister, let me be a little frustrated. I didn't say much... I leave it to justice to be very frustrated. I understand that you are asking your colleagues for a staggering, so as to save less in the first years and more later, the time for things to happen. But, for now, we've got linear. You announce that you will ask your colleagues for this or that. At the moment, when we make the accounts, we are 800 million in use of a 300 million reserve! So you understand that frustration is there. Perhaps you would have done well, or in any case your party president, to negotiate properly, as soon as the government and therefore the budget were formed, so that the budget of the justice system, as under previous governments, could be sanctified. You also say that the problem is not the budget but the projects, including the ICT. The problem in the area of justice is that there has never really been a project. I can tell you extraordinary stories! The computers that are given to staff members are already out of date. They were not immediately distributed at the time of purchase, the time the contract was awarded or a poor formulation was found. I fully understand the concerns of the magistrates. For years and years, we have been talking about workload. The problem, too, is that we hear everything and its opposite. A line should be decided. This line, you have to decide it. What's the workload? It's the act of making a judgment. This is the time spent on a trial, on a case in criminal, civil, tax, seizure, etc. These are the hours spent at home or elsewhere. You know, like me, that few magistrates have an office in court. Most work at home and make the judgments themselves. They send them to the transplant, which then puts them in shape. At some point, you have to face reality! Minister, rather than talking about workload, I have a suggestion for you. A study on Belgium shows that we do not have judicial statistics in Belgium. I suggest you set up an institute of judicial statistics. I believe that we are one of the only European countries not to have one. Maybe it'll be useful. Last thing. You refer to the number of magistrates in Belgium compared to other European countries. It's not necessarily them that lead to a backlog! It is not necessarily the procedures either. Beyond that, a contrario, when we see the percentage of the state budget that is invested in justice, the means are totally disproportionate to the countries you compare. When you take comparisons, you have to take all the comparisons. We may have a lot more judges per capita, but we invest less in per capita justice than all other countries. There are serious questions that need to be asked. When you invest less, for example, it means that there are fewer referendums, fewer preparations, less good computer equipment, etc. I also believe that working conditions are not excellent for judges either.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-03-54-commissie-ic103x.u41	Questions Nos 2513 and 2514 by Mrs Carina Van Cauter have been postponed. Debates of the European Parliament 2533 by Mr Conseil Degroote has been converted into a written question. Question No 2537 by Mrs Fonck is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-03-54-commissie-ic103x.u42	Mr President, Minister, female genital mutilation, which is widespread in Africa, does exist within the European Union and our country is no exception. For example, a study conducted by the Institute of Tropical Medicine in Antwerp in 2014 indicated that just over 48,000 women and girls whose nationality is that of a country where female circumcision is practised lived in our country as at 31 December 2012. Of these, just over 13,000 were considered "very likely to be excised" and just over 4,000 were considered "potentially at risk of excision". Flanders would be the most affected region, followed by Brussels and Wallonia. Article 409 of the Criminal Code, which entered into force on 27 March 2001, provides for imprisonment for anyone who has practiced, facilitated or promoted any form of mutilation of a woman's genital organs, with or without her consent. Penalties are increased if the victim is a minor. However, it seems that the Brussels Public Prosecutor's Office opened only one criminal case for excision in 2015 and that only 5 cases have been opened over the last seven years. Mr Minister, can you first confirm these figures for the judicial district of Brussels? Can you tell us how many cases have been opened in the other judicial districts? How do you explain the discrepancy between this finding of judicial districts and the figures put forward by the study of the Institute of Tropical Medicine? I am reminded that a circular from the Attorney General's Office on the criminal policy on female genital mutilation should be drafted shortly. Can you confirm this information? If so, do you already have any essential content elements to communicate to us and can you tell us when this circular could be applicable? In the area of violence against women, prosecutors responded only when the then minister had decided that it would be a priority. Prosecutors and police officers then took this phenomenon, which is widespread in our society, with arms. Here, it's exactly the same thing. If there is no circular and priority, I think that many girls will be excised in our country!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-03-54-commissie-ic103x.u43	Mr President, Mrs Lalieux, the College of Attorneys General has in fact commissioned a working group to draw up a draft circular on female genital mutilation, forced marriages and honour-related violence. Work is still under way. The material is complex and requires careful work. The aim will be to provide police and magistrates with the tools to familiarize themselves with and understand these matters in the best possible way and to establish clear guidelines for prosecutors. I cannot give you a precise indication of the date on which this forthcoming circular may be applicable. A reasonable goal would be to reach the end of 2015 in early 2016. Notwithstanding the legislative framework and article 409 of the Criminal Code, the creation of a specific registration code for female genital mutilation in the data bank of the College of Attorneys-General, the cases that have so far been registered with the judicial authorities remain very rare. Thus, between 2009 and 2013, there were 14 cases of sexual mutilation registered in Belgian criminal prosecutors' offices under the Code of Prevention 43K: sexual mutilation. 2 in 2009, 1 in 2010, 1 in 2011, 5 in 2012 and 5 in 2013. These figures are derived from the statistical analyses of the College of Attorneys General. They were extracted on January 10, 2014. At present, I have no more recent figures. It is difficult for an oral question to ask for a new statistical extraction, given the time available. This small number of cases could be explained by the fact that the mutilations would be carried out in the most clandestine way. It may therefore be plausible that very few complaints have been lodged by the victims and that very little information has been brought back to the police and thus to the public prosecutor's offices. Thus, genital mutilation could be a reality in Belgium and yet remain almost invisible to the police and therefore to the prosecution by the absence of a victim's complaint as well as by a large extrinsic and non-attributable deficit to the judicial police authorities reporting. As regards the status of the 14 registered cases from 2009 to 2013, the situation as at 10 January 2014 is as follows: 2 cases at the information stage, 9 cases closed without further action, 1 case for disposition and 2 cases are at the level of the Chamber of Counsel. As a reminder, the classification without further action is always provisional since as long as the public action is not extinguished, the case can always be reopened. Clarifications are also given on the grounds for which no action has been taken: 6 classifications of a technical nature (2 absences of offences, 2 insufficient charges, 2 unknown perpetrators) and 3 classifications without action for reasons of expediency (2 grounds specific to the author's personality and 1 related to criminal policy). To date, no case has resulted in a conviction in Belgium. It should be recalled that the fight against female genital mutilation is a long-term work involving various departments at all stages in an integrated manner. The fact that five cases were opened in 2012 and 2013 could be an indicator that joint work and awareness-raising are doing their job, as cases are finally discovered.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-03-54-commissie-ic103x.u44	I thank the Minister for this concrete response. It is very good that a working group is set up since the law dates back to 2001. It's never too late, but it's not you that I'm targeting here of course. We could've gotten to it sooner. The establishment of a working group is important since it was seen when women were properly received in police stations, they had confidence in the police, they were taken seriously, prosecutors took their responsibilities, and finally women dared to file a complaint. Because it's all about that. So it is really important to do a job with the judicial actors, the actors on the ground who are applicants, and are financed in part by the justice system. They have really efficient tools. I only regret that it is necessary to wait until the end of 2015 – early 2016 because the tools are already there. They are copied in Holland, England and France. I think that Belgium should perhaps work a little faster with the organisations active today. It is positive that cases were opened in 2012 and 2013. The judiciary is, of course, working independently, but I hope that the judiciary will be sensitized enough to condemn this practice because at some point a signal must be given in relation to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-03-54-commissie-ic103x.u45	Minister, I come immediately to my questions. What still remains to be achieved in the framework of Masterplan 1 and Masterplan 2 and within what time frame? Has Masterplan 3 already been evaluated? Have any decisions been taken on how to adapt it? Has the precise situation of the prisons and their type of population been completed by the FPS Justice in collaboration with the Régie des Bâtiments? What are the conclusions? What are the main directions of the new long-term policy announced in the Government Agreement?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-03-54-commissie-ic103x.u46	Mr President, I agree with the fact that some Belgian prisons are archaic and in very poor condition. This is also why my predecessors have developed Masterplans 1 and 2. However, I should like to point out that the situation has since improved considerably in many establishments. Overpopulation has decreased. There are now 10,185 places for 11,400 inmates, an overpopulation of 12 per cent. But a masterplan is a living data and therefore needs to be reviewed and updated regularly. It is this exercise that we are carrying out. Once completed, a new Masterplan 3 will be submitted to the Council of Ministers for approval. As a result, no final decision has yet been taken on this issue. More details will be given after approval, but I can already say that, in any case, particular attention will be paid to specific projects for prisoners and internees, as well as to a number of smaller projects such as criminal differentiation for specific groups of prisoners. The following Masterplans 1 and 2 projects are already implemented and operational: new establishments (Beveren, Marche-en-Famenne, Leuze-en-Hainaut, CPL Ghent); capacity recovery on existing sites (project in Saint-Gilles, Forest, Tournai, Hoogstraten and Turnhout); extension to existing sites (project in Merksplas, Malines, Paifves, Turnhout, Wortel and Hoogstraten). With regard to the Masterplans 1 and 2 projects that are still in progress, in Leuven, for the recovery of wing B, the call for tenders will be launched this year by the Régie des Bâtiments so that the works can be completed in 2017. In Hoogstraten, the renovation of 15 additional cells is under way and will be completed this month. At the Antwerp PLC, construction is under way and this building will be ready at the beginning of next year. In Achêne, the construction of a youth centre is pending because of the transfer of powers to the Communities. In Dendermonde, the proceedings were suspended due to the cancellation of the Provincial Space Execution Plan (PPP). The drafting of a new PSP is under way, following which an application for a building permit will be submitted. In Sambreville, the results of the subsoil analysis and necessary remediation are reviewed and discussed. The result will also be recorded in Masterplan 3. In Haren, proceedings continue. Applications for building permits and environmental permits were submitted in Brussels at the end of 2013 and are ongoing. In Antwerp, a new site was proposed to replace the prison. Negotiations between the city of Antwerp and Blue Gate always take place. With regard to Merksplas, the overall plan for its renovation is being drafted. The results will also be reflected in Masterplan 3.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-03-54-commissie-ic103x.u47	Minister, thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-03-54-commissie-ic103x.u48	Mr Minister, on Tuesday 24 February 2015, the press reported that 12 out of 13 accused persons in the case of fraud committed by the Lokerse signaliser Janssens have arrived at a friendly settlement. I can name the names because they're from the press. The case came to light in 2007 and covered facts from 2004 to 2007. Who initiated the extended friendly settlement? Were those one or more defendants or the courthouse? What is the total amount of friendly solutions agreed in the case? What amount was agreed with which defendant? Why are the concrete amounts of friendly solutions kept secret for the time being? The essence of the matter is, of course, that a law has been passed authorising the sale of criminal proceedings, but that there is a great secrecy about the amount paid in that case. I believe that this can certainly be communicated.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-03-54-commissie-ic103x.u49	Mr Van Hecke, the General Prosecutor of Ghent has given me the following answer. The original initiative to act on the crimes through a friendly settlement seems to have been based at that time on the counsel of two defendants. The court of first instance of East Flanders, department of Dendermonde, in consultation with the court general of Ghent, proposed an amicable settlement to all defendants. 12 of the 13 accused expressed their agreement and paid the proposed sum. The nv Janssens and Glenn Janssens first came to an agreement with the bourgeois parties and paid the agreed damages. A defendant did not accept the proposal and the prosecution therefore claimed a sentence for him. At the hearing of the Correctional Court on 24 February 2015, the Public Prosecutor submitted the agreements on the amicable settlement of 11 accused persons. Since the signed agreement of a defendant who had already paid the sum of money was missing, the court postponed the case until 21 April 2015. In the meantime, the Public Prosecutor has already obtained the signed agreement. With regard to the amounts and amicable settlements agreed and made in the case, it does not seem appropriate for the District Court General to notify those amounts, having regard to the provisions of Article 216a (2) of the Code of Criminal Procedure. The extended amicable settlement is indeed, at least until the judgment, of a confidential nature. The evaluation circular 6/2012 VVSBG, which was carried out by the Criminal Policy Service on behalf of the College of Attorneys General, and the report of 6 June 2014, which you have already requested, set out the various, also reluctant, views on the communication of the extended friendly settlement to the external public. At least as long as the court has not established the lapse of the criminal proceedings, it does not seem desirable to explain proposals for amicable settlement.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-03-54-commissie-ic103x.u50	Minister, I can still understand what you are saying, because the matter is still in session and because the agreement still needs to be formally confirmed. I do not think, however, that there are any reasons, after the judgment has become final, after the friendly settlements have been acted and after it has been established that the law has been applied, to maintain secrecy. This does not seem to me to be justified in a democratic rule of law. I can see from your reaction that you can also follow me in that. I requested the report. I asked you a question about this and you replied that the report is not public, but could be requested from the College of Attorneys General, and I did so. I have received the report stating in an e-mail that it is a highly confidential report that I absolutely cannot distribute. However, it is about an investigation into the application of a law in our country. I will ask you another question on that. It seems to me very bizarre when an official body such as the College of Attorneys General makes an analysis of the application of a law, with a list of the bottlenecks, the points of improvement and the good points, that report would be secret. I even hear that magistrates who are interested in that report will also receive a refusal.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-03-54-commissie-ic103x.u51	While you did get it?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-03-54-commissie-ic103x.u52	Yeah, I got it and I didn't pass it on. I'm being forced to leak, but I won't.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-03-54-commissie-ic103x.u53	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-03-54-commissie-ic103x.u54	That's unlikely. However, I will put a new question to you on this. Even though I find it an honour to receive that report, it seems to me to be a good thing, in a democratic rule of law, that such a report, which does not contain confidential information, is available, inter alia, for scientific research by interested magistrates.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-03-54-commissie-ic103x.u55	Debates of the European Parliament 2573 by Mrs Van Vaerenbergh was postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-03-54-commissie-ic103x.u56	Mr President, Minister, a few weeks ago we received reports that British and American security services would have broken into Gemalto's internal computer system, the world's largest manufacturer of bank and SIM card chips. The secret services would have intercepted a lot of SIM cards and digital keys. This way they can listen to conversations later and read texts and e-mails from users, without the permission of telecom operators and/or foreign governments. Some of the Belgian customers of Proximus, Mobistar and Base also have SIM cards from Gemalto. They have therefore asked the company if the data from their SIM cards have been intercepted. Depending on this information, it may be important to take diplomatic action in this area, because it is almost the common thread in this matter that when we are being spied on by the services of so-called friendly nations such as the United Kingdom and the United States, the reaction continues to be very lukewarm. First of all, should data from Belgian SIM cards be intercepted, do you intend to take action? If so, which one? Secondly, has an investigation into these facts already started? Thirdly, were the Belgian intelligence services aware of these practices by British and American colleagues? If so, how did they react? Fourthly, how did the government react to this burglary carried out by the intelligence services of so-called friendly nations, many of which hundreds of thousands of Belgian nationals may have been victims?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-03-54-commissie-ic103x.u57	Mr President, Mr Van Hecke, I would like to begin by answering your second question. Neither the Public Prosecutor General in Antwerp, which is responsible for the coordination of cybercrime, nor the Federal Office or the Federal Computer Crime Unit, have currently received a complaint in response to the facts mentioned in your question. This is not surprising, since the company itself has indicated that it will not file a complaint with any judicial authorities. I can answer your first question as follows. Should it become apparent that data from Belgian SIM cards have been intercepted, the court will decide autonomously whether there are sufficient elements to initiate a search or judicial investigation. As for your third question, following the publication of documents by Edward Snowden, Gemalto has distributed a press release confirming that the company has been a victim of several cyberattacks, two of which are particularly advanced burglaries that could only be controlled by states. However, state security is not aware of any involvement of intelligence services of so-called friendly nations in the hacking of Gemalto. As regards your fourth question, since our country is not directly involved in the facts you mentioned, there was no response to this burglary.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-03-54-commissie-ic103x.u58	Mr President, Minister, your answer is well structured in order to reach that final point of view. I believe that everything stands or falls with the initiation of a judicial investigation. If the affected firms do not do so themselves, which is apparently their policy and which I find very strange if they have actually been the victims of hacking, then there is still the possibility that the public prosecutor will decide autonomously whether or not to prosecute. In this case, I think we should wait and see if the friendly nations are actually being targeted. I expect a reaction from the government as I expected for the other attacks in the past. I am thinking, among other things, of Belgacom. Everything indicates that it's about friendly nations. It's from his friends that one should have it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-03-54-commissie-ic103x.u59	Mr Minister, your colleague, Minister of the Interior Jan Jambon, has recently expressed his support for the involvement of the State Security in this collaborative initiative. At a time when the fight against terrorism and international cooperation in this field are more than ever a hot topic, there are obviously questions about this topic. Have you already agreed with your colleague, Mr Jambon, on this matter? Has the State Security indicated to you a willingness to feed and have access to the data bank of the Terrorism Screening Center? What form could the involvement of State Security take in the exchange of information between the Terrorism Screening Center and the Federal Judicial Police?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-03-54-commissie-ic103x.u60	Mr President, I believe that a good exchange of information at the international level is an absolute necessity in the fight against terrorism. It is through the sharing of data processed by the security services that we can develop a sufficient vision of terrorist groups and their activities. Cooperation with the United States security services has been an important element. However, as far as the Terrorism Screening Center is concerned, the introduction of a direct line between the State Security Service and the US Security Service does not, in the eyes of the Security Service, represent an immediate added value for the exchange of information. Clearly, the State Security informed me that it was not seeking a direct link with the Terrorism Screening Center. The federal police have been designated as the central point of contact with this agency run by the FBI. From the Belgian point of view, it is above all necessary that the Federal Police and the State Security cooperate effectively. Both these departments and the relevant oversight bodies have confirmed to me that this is currently the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-03-54-commissie-ic103x.u61	Question No 2568 by Mr Peter Vanvelthoven was withdrawn. Joined Questions No 2572 by Mrs Kristien Van Vaerenbergh and No 2626 by Mr David Clarinval are postponed. Question No 2613 by Mrs Goedele Uyttersprot is transformed into a written question. Questions Nos 2627 and 2628 by Caroline Cassart-Mailleux are postponed. Question No 2632 by Mr Stéphane Crusnière is also postponed.
