ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic191x.u1	Colleagues, we have a busy agenda. Ms. Ann Vanheste asked to turn question No. 4113 into a written question. The same applies to Question No 3454 by Mrs Caroline Cassart-Mailleux and Question No 4103 by Mr Jef Van denbergh is withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic191x.u2	Madam President, Madam Minister, drone manufacturers are part of an emerging and innovative sector of the economy, which quickly needs clear legislation as has been put in place in France in particular. All the players in this sector: manufacturers, architects, surveyors, farmers are looking forward to the regulation. The European Union has also taken steps to enable Member States to legislate on the management of drones in airspace, privacy and other matters. These provisions must be transcribed at the level of the Member States and the Regions by 1 January 2016. Last March, you told us that the Royal Decree on the regulation of drones was in the final stages. Precisely, in the parliamentary committee of 19 March, you said: "I will very shortly propose a text which is the result of a consultation between my administration, the Defence and Belgocontrol, while taking into account the wishes of the sector. The opinion of the Regions and the Council of State will then have to be sought." However, it appears that this order would allow drones, for private use, to fly up to 30 metres high in private areas. Professionals, for their part, could climb to 90 meters but should be the subject of more specific dossiers. These questions are open to debate. Minister, when is this royal order scheduled for publication? Walloon regional minister Di Antonio told Walloon Parliament on 4 May that he had not yet been asked for consultation or otherwise Perhaps it has been since, since more than a month ago, the question was tabled? When will the opinion of the Regions finally be requested? What are the reasons for this delay in the progress of this case? What will be the content of this text in preparation for our future debate?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic191x.u3	Thank you, Mr de Lamotte, for this question, which allows me once again to re-establish some counter-truths. I would like to reiterate that my objective is, and has always been, to establish regulations that allow the economic development of a sector of the future, but while taking into account security requirements in view of the complexity of the Belgian sky and the protection of privacy. Until now, the professional use of drones has not been permitted in Belgium. I therefore regret the polemics created around this issue. The introduction of this type of regulation is not easy. In the United States, this use is permitted only if authorized. There is no coherent approach at European level. Moreover, the European Commission has made no provision on this subject which should be transcribed into national law by 1 January 2016. Now that I have completed the drafting process for this project, it was sent on May 8 to the Regions for advisory advice, the Council of State and the Privacy Commission. The draft will then be notified to the European Commission before it is published. As far as content is concerned, I have already explained the main components. The objective is to authorize the professional use of drones, subject to certain principles as to height (300 feet), airspace outside controlled areas and flexible management of the military training space, following theoretical and practical training for the candidate pilot, accompanied by a medical examination, supervised by the Directorate-General for Air Transport (DGTA) and the registration of the drone. The use which emerges from these principles is not prohibited but subject to authorization by the DGTA and recreational use is supervised. As I have already said, this text is only a first step which is destined to be adapted on the basis of practice, technological change and a possible European approach, with all the actors concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic191x.u4	Madam Chair, I would like to make a brief reply while thanking the minister for her response. Indeed, the echoes that come back to us by professionals in the sector are sometimes interested or dubious. This is varied, whether they are from the private or public sectors. I am waiting for these returns to see how you may be adjusting this royal decree with regard to these ongoing consultations. And then we'll have the opportunity to come back.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic191x.u5	Madam President, Madam Minister, this is an issue that has often been addressed in this committee in the past legislatures. It was, of course, linked to the Fyra project which is currently under investigation in the Dutch House of Representatives. Meanwhile, passengers in the Noorderkempen region still have a very poor service because Fyra had to provide additional services. Because of that failure, everything was put on the long track and it was announced that the Benelux plus train, which is currently travelling to the Netherlands via line 12, would be on high-speed line 4 from the end of 2016. That way, that train could also stop at the station Noorderkempen. Since at the end of 2016 it may seem far away, but in railroad terms it is no longer that far away, I believe that this is the right time to ask for a state of affairs in this project. If I am not mistaken, for example, the lanes must be requested about a year in advance. This should be prepared at the moment if that train is to be effective from the end of 2016. I therefore have the following questions, Madam Secretary. What is the state of play and the planning, so that in December 2016 the Benelux plus train between Brussels and Amsterdam will effectively run on line 4? What material will be used to make this possible? What technical steps, if any, need to be taken? How long will the Benelux train run over the Brussels-Amsterdam route? Today there is a lot of criticism of the far too long duration of that route. Where will there be stops? Can you confirm that this train will also stop at the station Noorderkempen? What is your view on the service at the station Noorderkempen, given the wide possibilities? The station is located directly on a motorway, near Brecht. The traffic jams towards Antwerp are daily up to there. If one could place a digital sign there with the call to take the train there every half an hour, I think this has some potential. What is the view of SNCB on the future of the high-speed link with the Netherlands in general and of the station Noorderkempen in particular?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic191x.u6	Madam President, Mr Van den Bergh, the intercity Brussels-Amsterdam will indeed, in accordance with the cooperation agreements between the NS, the SNCB and the Dutch State, from December 2016, cross the high-speed line between Antwerp and Rotterdam. In doing so, existing IC coaches of the NS and SNCB locomotives shall be used. The latter need to be adapted and Homologized in order to be able to ride the new line. The procedure is ongoing. The carriages will be slightly refreshed, both on the outside and on the inside. In addition, a number of functional improvements are planned, e.g. for luggage options. From December 2016, this train will stop in Brussels-Zuid, Brussels-Central, Brussels-National Airport, Mechelen, Antwerp-Central, Noorderkempen, Breda, Rotterdam-Central, The Hague, Schiphol and Amsterdam-Central. As it now looks like, the journey time of the intercity Brussels-Amsterdam will be 3 hours and 20 minutes. As soon as the IC Brussels-Amsterdam drives through L4, it connects Noorderkempen with Antwerpen and Breda with an hour's service. On the Noorderkempen-Antwerp route, he replaces the IC 15 Antwerp-Noorderkempen, except for the first two early trains, which are further inlaid. The reason for this is because the first IC train Brussels-Amsterdam does not leave Noorderkempen until 08:00. With the first two trains of the current IC 15 services, the early commuters will still be able to travel to Antwerp from around 06:00. In the negotiations with the Dutch State, SNCB advocated the Noorderkempen stop, given its location vis-à-vis the Netherlands, its accessibility with the car and its potential as a traffic hub.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic191x.u7	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer, which fortunately confirms a number of perspectives. The station Noorderkempen will receive a more extensive service, both in the direction of Antwerp and Brussels and in the direction of the Netherlands. It is a good thing that it will eventually be there, because they have been waiting for it for about ten years. I have one additional question, but I don't know if you can answer it right away. Which locomotives will be driven, with TRAXX locomotives like today, or others?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic191x.u8	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic191x.u9	You're gonna have to check? Okay.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic191x.u10	Madam President, Madam Minister, I have already asked you recently about the lack of seats on train IC 3439 for Binche, leaving Brussels-Central at 5:23 p.m., and the need for many passengers to have to wait for the next train. When the train is amputated by half, like train IC 3708 connecting the Hainaut to Brussels with a stop at 8:49 a.m. in Braine-le-Comte on 5 May, obliging the controllers to ask passengers to descend and deport themselves to the omnibus or the next train, this is not without creating difficulties for commuters who are likely to arrive late at work. This problem is not recent on the Belgian network. To cope with this, SNCB has changed its transportation plan and acquired new, modern and comfortable cars. However, the no-y account is still not. Already, SNCB's calculations of car occupancy as a basis for train composition have been taken from their lower floors, forcing some passengers to travel upright during peak hours, without the fact that the controller decides to downgrade the first class. SNCB, a victim of both its success and a delay in the delivery of the cars it acquired, struggles at peak hours to meet all the needs it faces. However, after the Walloon dorsal, the link between Quiévrain/Quévy and Brussels is one of the major lines serving the Hainaut, from the Borinage to the centre of the province, with the connections for La Louvière and Binche. So, Madam Minister, can you tell us what, in addition to the delay in the delivery of the above-mentioned cars, are the reasons, I hope, temporary, why this situation of going back and forth becomes a source of difficulties for the commuters and inhabitants of Hainaut? I know you're particularly sensitive to it. The changes to come in June and December, which, according to a SNCB press release, follow "a series of technical adjustments to improve the punctuality and fluidity of traffic", notably by increasing the capacity of some 60 trains, have among their objectives to improve the service of this line on a sustainable basis, in particular by adding additional wagons? What positive developments can be expected from these future changes in Hainaut and the rest of Belgium in June and December?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic191x.u11	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, SNCB regularly monitors train occupancy throughout the network. When structural problems of overoccupation are identified, it seeks solutions in order to remedy them as quickly as possible. On line 96, during the evening peak hours, two trains were reinforced due to problems on this line. This is the L 3786 Louvain-Braine-le-Comte train which has been reinforced since 19 January, leaving in Brussels-Central at 3.57 p.m., and the IC 1740 Liège-Brussels-Quievrain train reinforced since 9 February, leaving in Brussels-Central at 7.17 p.m. You are right to say that overoccupation problems still persist in peak hours for trains between Binche and Brussels. The SNCB is studying, by December 2015, the commissioning of an additional P train which will link Binche to Braine-le-Comte where passengers will be able to connect to Brussels. A new train will also be scheduled for return in the evening. In normal situations, the compositions for trains IC 3439 Turnhout-Binche and IC 3708 Mons-Bruxelles-National-Aéroport are sufficient to provide seating for passengers. In the event of an incident or failure of equipment, occasional overoccupations can of course always occur.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic191x.u12	Madam President, Minister, it is rare for us to welcome the news announced by the ministers. However, the announcement of new trains is positive, and I thank you very much, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic191x.u13	Madam President, Minister, in 2009, after major renovations, was inaugurated the Western Railway Station located in the territory of Molenbeek-Saint-Jean. This station was then considered a future large intermodal hub where buses, trams, metros and trains would cross. It would make it easier for many people in the north-west of Brussels to travel to their workplaces, but would also improve access to Brussels for commuters who come to work there through the introduction of the RER. Today, the Western Railway Station allows tens of thousands of passengers to travel daily by metro (lines 1, 2, 5 and 6), bus (STIB, De Lijn, lines 126, 127, 128, 129 and 620) and tram (line 82). On the other hand, the SNCB station remains unpopulated, the presence of commuters on the docks is anecdotal. There is no counter, but only automatons that issue transport tickets. This SNCB station is almost deserted, which contrasts sharply with the traffic of the metro-tram-bus. I do not know whether to speak of failure, but these difficulties were confirmed last January by the SNCB spokesman who said that the Group was aware of the low attendance rate, adding that SNCB should adapt its offer to the West station. Minister, what will be the future of the Western Railway Station, which was seen at its inauguration as an example of intermodality? Will SNCB adapt its offer to the Western Railway Station, as announced by the Group's spokesperson? If this is confirmed, what type of SNCB offer is it going to? As part of the Brussels suburban network, what will be the role of the station? Given its situation and its multitude of connections to the various areas of Brussels, it is certain that this station must be an essential link in this offer. Finally, how many passengers board trains on a daily basis? Have there been any variations since its inauguration in 2009?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic191x.u14	Madam President, dear colleague, the West Railway Station is currently served by one train per hour. Its attendance is relatively low despite its potential for intermodality. The adaptation of SNCB's offer must be considered in the light of the next key dates, in particular the transport plan of December 2017. In addition, the adaptations of the offer will be made possible by the partial or complete commissioning of new infrastructures, e.g. those on line 124. In parallel with future adjustments to the offer still to be demarcated, SNCB wants to strengthen the communication on its current offer. The natural reflex of the Bruxellois is to turn first to the metro or tram. SNCB must encourage them to consider the suburban rail offer as a complementary mobility solution to the metro and tram, as well as to the car. SNCB does not intend to reduce its offer on line 28 via West Station and Simonis. The next reopening of the Pannenhuis station, which will be renamed Tour and Taxis, on the horizon of December 2015 or December 2016, aims to strengthen the western axis of Brussels. The SNCB provided me with the figures for the number of passengers boarded on trains at the Western Railway Station. They'll be handed over to you. In addition, SNCB publishes its statistics on the number of passengers boarding per station. These figures are available to the public and can be consulted on its website.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic191x.u15	Madam Minister, I have heard your comments about the future of this station, which will have to play an essential role for commuters.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic191x.u16	Minister, on the line 161 Brussels-Ottignies, the work of the RER started in 2006 in Ottignies and was originally due to end at the end of 2016 so that the RER would be operational at the beginning of 2017. On line 124 Brussels-Nivelles, this work began in 2007 on Waterloo-Sud and North-Braine and was scheduled to be completed in 2017 so that the ER would be operational in early 2018. Unfortunately, this work will not be completed according to the announced agenda. They have been postponed on a number of occasions and may still be postponed. For example, on line 161, work is currently scheduled to be completed by the end of 2021 and on line 127 by the end of 2023. The construction of the four-lane line 50A Brussels-Denderleeuw was to be carried out in parallel with the L161. These were scheduled to be completed by the end of 2016, plus two years of renovation work on the two existing tracks. Thus, in Flanders, the work of the RER will be well completed at the end of 2018. Currently, 60 per cent of the four-track work on line 161 has been completed and 32 per cent on line 124. For these two lines, the completion of the work is scheduled for the end of 2025 in the PPI, seven years later than the last four-lane installation in Flanders in theory. In practice, this amounts to ten years late, 20 years after the start of work. And delays could be even greater! Over ten years of delay in Walloon Brabant compared to Flanders, while the last four-lane start in Flanders was to end at the same time as the four-lane start-up Brussels-Ottignies. The commuters of the Walloon Brabant will still suffer delays for at least 10 to 15 years. The announcement of the completion of the Park and Ride of 2338 places in Louvain-la-Neuve for 2017 will not or will not bring any positive change to the RER. Indeed, the current transport plan only provides for three trains per hour to Ottignies-Brussels, one of which is direct. SNCB says that it will only be able to set more trains when the four-lane rollover is done on L161, that is in 2026 if everything goes well. For nine years, Park and Ride won't serve much. Will the Park and Ride in Louvain-la-Neuve be a great unnecessary job for Wallonia? The federal government agreement on the ER, however, stated that, I quote, "the implementation of the ER will be accelerated and integrated into the transportation plan. The completion of the RER will be carried out as soon as possible." Today, if nothing changes, the SNCB will take at least twenty years...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic191x.u17	Mrs. Poncelet, you will not have an answer if you continue. Your question is too long. You are entitled, I remind you, to three minutes to ask your questions, then two minutes for the minister's answer and one minute for your reply. Ask your questions!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic191x.u18	Madam Chair, here are my questions. Minister, what is your position regarding the delays in the work of the RER in Walloon Brabant in relation to Flanders? What do you intend to do to ensure that the completion of the RSP is completed as quickly as possible? Are you planning to allocate funds for work to speed up the four-track implementation of line 161? Finally, as part of the IPP currently under discussion, can you guarantee that the work will be completed in a timely manner and will be sufficiently advanced to prevent the Louvain-la-Neuve Park and Ride from being classified as unnecessary?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic191x.u19	You need to learn how to reduce the statement of your questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic191x.u20	Madam President, the first delays in the first suburban network stem from the late issuance of permits, in particular not from the regional authorities, and the prolongation of proceedings following appeals brought by individuals and municipalities. Today, the four-lane licences for the 124 Brussels-Nivelles line in Brussels and Flemish regions are cancelled. These delays are amplified by the obligation to respect the allocation key for all investments by Infrabel and SNCB, taking into account a tense budgetary context. There is a need to distinguish between the implementation of the suburban network and the modification of the infrastructure to increase capacity. In view of the tight budgetary context, work to increase the capacity of the suburban network will have to be phased out. The aim is to gradually make use of the sections of the line in order to improve as the suburban network is implemented. The first stage is planned at the end of this year with the start-up of the Schuman-Josaphat link. The development of the new multi-year plan is under way. All solutions will be considered. However, the approach must be comprehensive and consistent on the basis of multi-criteria that are budgetaryly acceptable, respecting the allocation key and providing the best cost-benefit ratio on the operation. Currently, new car parks are open in Nivelles, Braine-l'Alleud and Genval and those in La Hulpe and Rixensart will be open soon. These car parks offer thousands of places and are truly successful. The opening of these car parks demonstrates their usefulness regardless of the commissioning of the suburban network or the increase in the capacity of the line. Louvain-La-Neuve Park and Ride will not escape this rule.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic191x.u21	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. The opening of the car parks will certainly be very useful. On the other hand, you have nothing to do with this gap in work between Flanders and Wallonia. If I understand your answer correctly, Wallonia will still be ten years late.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic191x.u22	Madam President, Minister, I apologize for my delay. Being also on another commission, you will understand that I do not have the gift of ubiquity. Thank you very much for giving me the opportunity to ask my question. Madam Minister, you have recently mentioned a series of non-structural measures which, in the short term, reduce the noise pollution caused by the operation of the Zaventem airport. One of them is called "Noise Abatement Departure Procedure" (NADP). As the name indicates, this is a take-off technique designed to reduce the noise generated by the aircraft. The technique is not to exceed a certain speed after taking off the runway in order to increase the lift of air on the aircraft, making it "grimper" faster. The aircraft taking altitude faster, it will generate much less noise for the residents. The NADP procedure is conducted in two ways: NADP 1 and NADP-A. NADP 1 leaves an appreciation to airlines in the application of the standard on the basis of their aircraft. The other method, NADP-A, forces all devices to follow the same rule. The technique chosen at Zaventem is the NADP 1 technique, the free technique. Minister, given that the NADP-A mandatory provision has the advantage of ensuring the desired results since it is imposed on everyone in the same way and that this procedure is successfully applied at other airports, can you explain to me why this choice of freedom was made?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic191x.u23	Dear colleague, as I have already said on several occasions in this committee, I have decided to apply, alongside the moratorium, two lower noise procedures, one at take-off and the other at landing. The one to which you refer is the NADP 1 low noise starting procedure (Noise abatement departure – procedure 1). This measure optimizes the climb profile of aeroplanes in order to reduce the noise received on the ground depending on the areas over which the aircraft is flying. There are two types of NADP: a procedure to quickly take up altitude in order to reduce noise in the direct vicinity of the airport (NADP 1) - that is the one we prefer - and the NADP 2 procedure to speed up speed in order to reduce nuisance and reduce noise at a greater distance from the airport. I would point out that this measure will be imposed on everyone. Pending the official entry into force of the CDO (Continuous Descent Operation) and the NADP 1 – in principle on 25 June – I asked to raise awareness among Belgocontrol personnel, and in particular air traffic controllers, so that they would systematically and effectively raise awareness of the airlines departing and arriving from Brussels National so that they would apply these procedures without delay with less noise. For your full information, I would point out that the airlines have already been duly notified.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic191x.u24	Thank you, minister, for that answer. I understand that all companies would be subject to the same rule. However, the question of whether they have a margin of discretion in applying the rule is not yet clear to me. I see you're showing me that you're not. That's a lot of satisfaction.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic191x.u25	Madam President, Minister, you are well aware that two years ago, on the night of 4 to 5 May 2013, a freight train loaded with toxic acrylonitrile derailed. We all know the consequences of that. However, it remains to be seen that two years after the crash of that freight train, a number of evacuated families have still not recovered their costs. However, in the aftermath of the train disaster, Infrabel had announced that the inhabitants who had incurred costs in the context of an evacuation would be reimbursed. In particular, it concerned the direct real costs and expenditure incurred directly and, of course, immediately as a result of the accident and the subsequent evacuation. The write-off was a proposal by Infrabel for compensation for the costs incurred, worked out in a settlement. Here in committee, several other Members have asked questions about the dossier. At that time it was made very clear that if the residents in question signed the waiver, they would finally accept the financial compensation for the costs in relation to Infrabel. However, the data subjects retained the right to compensation if, in future, Infrabel were to be designated as responsible. The investigation report on the causes of the disaster was published at the end of 2014. Now many wetters are still in the dark. They still don't know what to do next. Is the investigation over? When does the trial against those responsible start? Madam Secretary, my questions are as follows. How many families are still waiting for reimbursement of the costs incurred today? Are there any reasons for not getting that refund? Within what time will all affected residents of Wetteren finally see their incurred expenses reimbursed? When is Infrabel planning a new information meeting for affected residents? Can you give us a concrete picture of the investigation? When could any persons responsible for the train disaster be identified?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic191x.u26	Madam Minister, my question is in line with Mrs Temmerman's question on compensation for the damage suffered by the inhabitants of Wetteren. I would like to talk more specifically about the costs incurred by the local authorities in providing assistance. My previous question on this dates back to December 2013. It was addressed to your predecessor, Mr Labille, who then reported that Infrabel had already received invoices from local authorities amounting to more than EUR 800 000. Since all these invoices were contested by Infrabel, nothing has yet been paid. It was also pointed out at that time that the investigation had not yet been completed and that Infrabel's liability had not yet been demonstrated, so that it could not be charged. Madam Minister, what amount have invoices finally been received from local authorities? Is it still EUR 800 000? Or has the amount gone up in the meantime? In the meantime, has anything been paid back to the local authorities? What is the state of the investigation?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic191x.u27	I give the state of play with regard to Mrs Temmerman's question on the reimbursement to private individuals of the immediate costs of evacuation. One hundred and fifty families were paid back in the meantime. A receipt was sent to 47 families, 7 of which received the agreement of the local residents concerned, so they will be paid as soon as we have received a non-intervention certificate from their fire insurance company. Forty receipts sent await the agreement of the local residents concerned before payment can be made. In 25 files, additional file documents were requested so that a cost analysis can be carried out on its merits. Two families have definitively refused the reimbursement and wish to await the outcome of the investigation. Thirty-four applications were declared inadmissible either because the parties were not dominated within the defined perimeter or because the claim for damages was outside the costs recoverable from Infrabel. The time limit within which all refunds can be made depends initially on the local residents concerned who wish to deal with the pre-financing proposed by Infrabel. At this stage, no new information meeting is foreseen for the local residents concerned in Wetteren. Infrabel has already communicated all the elements at its disposal in full transparency at the previous meetings. With regard to the treatment of individual cases, Infrabel works through personal contacts. The judicial investigation is in the hands of the investigating judge in charge of the investigation. Infrabel has no idea of the actual state of his research. For further information, please contact the competent judicial authorities or the FPS Justice. As for your questions, Mrs Lahaye-Battheu, the municipalities sent invoices for a total amount of 953 101.53 euros. The invoices of municipal services, such as the OCMW services, which produced separate invoices, are not included. Infrabel pre-financed only the performance of undertakings to which it has ordered them, as well as the costs associated with necessary and urgent measures to reduce the damage. The judicial investigation is still in the hands of the investigating judge. Infrabel doesn't have a visual on the state of the investigation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic191x.u28	Madam Secretary, thank you for your full reply. I fully understand that personal contacts in this area are still the best solution. I can also understand that there is no need to organise a general information meeting, but it would be a good idea to send a letter of information to the inhabitants on the current state of affairs, for example on the number of families already paid out. It can also be said that the judicial investigation is still ongoing and that we must wait for the consequences. It is useful to communicate that generally to the residents of Wetter. There is not so much news and therefore an information meeting is not necessary, but an ordinary letter to the residents would be very useful.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic191x.u29	I would like to thank the Minister for her reply and for the precise figures she has given. The total amount involved is EUR 953 101.53, which has so far been charged by the towns and municipalities around Wetteren. I understand that these costs are mainly linked to the fire department and other services carried out by its own services. I assume, since the investigation is still ongoing, that there will have to be longer waiting before the first euro is seen.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic191x.u30	Madam President, I will only ask my second question, because the minister had responded in plenary to the first by giving me, moreover, full satisfaction. The law of 26 March 2014 on the safe operation of museum railway lines pursues an unquestionably positive objective: to ensure the safety of the many travellers who use these heritage lines each year, while filling a legal vacuum. It should be noted that this sector does not fall within the scope of the European rail directives on this subject, nor does it fall within the scope of the Belgian legislation implementing them. I am not aware of many accidents caused by these trains, which run at a very limited speed. However, attention must be paid to safety and thus find a balance between safety and the sustainability of the work of the volunteers who restore and circulate these trains, to the great pleasure of the public. It is important to ensure that the arrangements do not jeopardize the viability of these associations and their activities. To my knowledge, four of them are concerned: the Stoomtrein de Maldegem; the association which operates a tourist line between Termonde and Puurs; the tourist railway heritage which operates a line in the Bocq Valley; and, finally, the Three Valleys Steam Railway in the Black Water Region, White Water and Viroin. I know him well, because he's in my area. For forty-two years, volunteers of this museum line have been repairing and restoring historical material. This tourist exploitation is a real museum line since it includes a museum located at the end of the line. I am reminded that by the deadline of June 13, 2015, the operating procedures and the safety management system must be endorsed by the SSICF - the Railway Safety and Interoperability Service. Everything must be operational on the scheduled date, otherwise the trains would no longer be able to operate on these museum lines. The deadline is really in a few days. I do not hide the fact that there has been some anxiety among those responsible for these associations who have been in dialogue with those responsible for this SSICF service for some time. I believe that the obligations they have to meet are numerous and diverse, sometimes quite drastic, sometimes quite costly for voluntary associations with limited means. Knowing that Infrabel's report, which is one of the prerequisites for being able to enter the file, arrived only on 24 April, these associations did not have much time to enter their file. Minister, what is your philosophy with respect to this deadline? Will additional time be allowed, given the lack of time that they have had to endure? What will be the future of the four associations I mentioned? I hope that we will not sanction these volunteers from associations that have, in good faith, negotiated for both repairing the roads, passing medical examinations to drivers, and that kind of thing. It was heavy enough for these associations. I hope you can guarantee their sustainability.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic191x.u31	Dear colleague, the Act of 26 March 2014 on the safe operation of museum railway lines was brought by Secretary of State Mr Wathelet to fill a legislative gap in this area. It aims to prevent accidents such as the Trimbleu accident that occurred on 5 October 1991 in Blégny-Trembleur, which cost the lives of seven people. The provisions of this law come into force on 13 June on museum lines already in operation. Tourism associations have been closely involved in the drafting of the Act. Information and consultation meetings were held on 16 July 2012, 23 November 2012 and 20 February 2013. The Secretary of State individually informed each association of the adoption of the bill by letter dated 14 February 2014. In this letter, he invited them to begin the preparation of their file without delay, noting that the Railway Safety and Interoperability Service (TSISCF) was at their disposal to guide and assist them in this work. On 15 September 2014, the MT FPS and the SSICF, which had so far not received any requests for assistance, organized a new information session in which all associations participated and during which a response was provided to all their questions. The FCIMS received applications from four associations between January 13 and March 24, 2015. The maturity of these files was very variable and in any case very unsatisfactory. At that time, it was too late to consider amending the law before 13 June, given the particularly sensitive nature of the matter. As for the outright moratorium requested by some, it would have been irresponsible to keep the risk going longer. Indeed, the experience of recent months has amply demonstrated that only intense pressure is likely to bring about real progress in bringing the operating conditions of museum lines into line. Aware of the dual challenge of ensuring the safety of people, but also the economic sustainability of the associations, the firm obtained from Infrabel the help of a high-level specialist who was made available to the associations to make progress in improving their files. Just a few days from the moment that the SSICF, an independent body, should be recalled, will render its verdict on the basis of the actual status of the files, the maturity of the files continues to be very different depending on the association. It is now up to the SSICF to apply the law with relevance and wisdom.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic191x.u32	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. Of course, there is a psychosis of the post-Trimbleu which, in the technical sense, is not a tourist train comparable to others, because it is more a tramway. Anyway, it was dramatic! I think that in the field of tourist trains, there have been no accidents in the last 25 years. Nevertheless, we must remain attentive to certain elements. I take the case of the Three Valleys Steam Railway in my area. He's been working for 42 years without any accidents. You're telling me that the status of the files is different according to the associations. A few days before the deadline, none of them are guaranteed to continue their business beyond 14 June. Infrabel's report was only delivered on 24 April. It was a prerequisite for finalizing their files. Does this give them an additional period of time? That is the essential question I asked you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic191x.u33	I answered you!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic191x.u34	The Minister believes she has responded!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic191x.u35	In that case, I'll read your answer again.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic191x.u36	Minister, a recent study by the IBSR shows that alcohol-influenced driving is still far too widespread in our country. Belgium, for example, is one of the worst pupils in this field at European level with Italy, Spain and Portugal. This is reflected in the statistics, since according to the study, more than 5,400 personal accidents involve at least one user under the influence of alcohol, i.e. more than 12% of all accidents. In view of this situation, it is essential to take measures to increase the awareness of motorists in this field. Minister, I have no doubt for a moment that you have read this study. How do you look at the results she puts forward? In order to reduce the influence of driving, the IBSR makes a series of recommendations in this study: increasing criminal policy activity in combination with an increase in non-selective testing, mandatory alcohol testing in the event of an accident and communication around controls, increasing the amount of the sentence, intensifying rehabilitation programmes for offenders, and even developing anti-start ethylotest programmes with follow-up and support. Are you considering following any of these leads? If so, which ones do you intend to implement in the short term?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic191x.u37	Mr Senesael, I have read the exploratory study Good Practice Driving Under the Influence of Alcohol which was recently carried out by the IBSR and whose aim is to better understand how other European countries have been more effective in the fight against driving under the influence of alcohol. The feasibility, of course, of transposing the measures outlined need to be examined in more detail. In addition to the recent reduction in the alcohol level authorized for professional drivers to 0.2 per 1,000 and the increase in the immediate perception for drivers with a concentration of alcohol between 0.22 and 0.35 mg, which has increased from 150 to 170 euros, I have already asked my administration to consider the advisability of placing pre-emptive anti-start ethylotests on passenger transport vehicles, particularly on school buses, and to examine how to make the mandatory use of anti-start ethylotest more effective and widespread for offenders. Prevention campaigns and controls remain essential tools for combating alcohol driving. Last year, the Federal Police achieved the number of alcohol checks planned within the framework of the General States of Road Safety, i.e. more than 240,000 checks per year. Finally, the figures for the last Bob campaign are rather positive. The number of alcohol-controlled drivers, more than 0.5 grams per litre of blood, is the lowest level since the start of this campaign, 2.8%. This corresponds to 8,994 drivers out of the 321,156 that were checked during the Bob campaign in winter. This is an additional sign for us that there is a Bob generation. We can only congratulate them, but the effort must be sustained.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic191x.u38	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. I would even say that the effort must be continued and intensified. I am also grateful for the instructions you will give to your administration. However, the other recommendations of the IBSR should also be taken into account. I am counting on you to continue the effort in this direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic191x.u39	Madam Minister, SNCB wants to adapt its services to the size of the stations and parking facilities and thus better meet the needs of the customers. That sounds nice, but apparently it has consequences for the existing cycling points. In this context and in order to ensure stable growth, the services of the bicycle points are also reviewed. The Management Committee would have decided to create three categories of stations: A stations with more than 2 500 passengers per day and more than 1 000 bicycle sheds, B stations with more than 2 500 passengers and less than 1 000 stables and, finally, C stations with fewer passengers and less than 1 000 bicycle sheds. This would mean that for 15 existing Flemish cycling points there would no longer be any financial support from SNCB. However, in an answer to an earlier question, sometime in January or February, you had underlined that the cycling points provide valuable services to travellers and are an added value, for example in the area of cleanliness, supervision and order in the bicycle sheds and parkings. You also confirmed that from autumn 2016, smaller stations would be operated with punctual actions spread across a wider number of stations. Madam Minister, I find it rather regrettable that we need to hear about the closure of cycling points through the press. I also find it regrettable that we have to be told by the press that there are points of contact being closed. There will be a series of questions about that later. In fact, these are preliminaries on the modernisation plan, which we look forward to with great impatience. The modernisation plan should draw up the chalk lines of what we expect from the NBMS in terms of passenger services in the coming years. Such measures are a preliminary reduction. I do regret that. I hope that the modernisation plan, which will later have to be translated into management contracts, will include clear commitments in terms of cycling and the combination of bike and train, because that is a combination for the future. I have the following specific questions, Madam Secretary. Are you aware of the decision? I suppose so. Has this been discussed with you? Can you confirm and, if necessary, explain the decision that I have just explained? What impact will the decision have on the bicycle points? What kind of service will be provided by whom in what kind of station? Can you explain what is precisely meant by "punctual actions" spread across a wider number of stations, which is apparently put forward as an alternative? Finally, how do you see the future of cycling points? What steps will you take to define your vision in the modernisation plan?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic191x.u40	Madam Minister, I fully endorse Mr Van den Bergh's question. I was somewhat surprised, because we both asked the question about the bicycle points last time. Your answer at that time was quite reassuring. I asked again explicitly and you said that the cycling points would certainly continue to exist in the largest stations. This is now apparent from the communication of SNCB itself, but I am surprised that cycling points are closed. Mr Van den Bergh has explained very clearly that we absolutely must encourage the combination of train and bike, especially in the outskirts, where public transport is already less extensive, especially in view of the savings in Flanders. For those who do not have a car, the bike is sometimes the only alternative. If the bicycle points are abolished in the smaller stations, then we will have a problem. Everyone is in favour of fewer traffic jams. Many studies have already shown that the combination of bike and train is highly regarded in this respect. Can you repeat which bicycle points will be effectively closed? After all, there is still a great deal of uncertainty about the criteria used for this purpose. I don't think the local authorities are aware of this at all. If I'm wrong, you'll have to rectify it. My question is, therefore, when will the local authorities be informed about this? I would also like more information on the punctual actions, such as Mr Van den Bergh. Finally, many cycling points are also part of the projects of local service economy. We are all in favour of disadvantaged groups working, we are in favour of designing projects to help and, above all, to keep those involved in work. Bicycle points were a very valuable instrument for this. Where I live, very good results have been achieved with people who have been unemployed for years. Through the bicycle points they have learned a job, which they can also keep. The social employment at the bicycle points is therefore very important. Can you tell me how many jobs in social employment will be lost in closing the fifteen bicycle points?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic191x.u41	Madam Minister, it is generally known that bicycle points have proved their worth in the past, because they carry out different tasks. For the bicycle user it is small repairs and monitoring, but the bicycle points are also useful for social employment. These are very important projects, which indeed cost some money occasionally, but the added value has, in my opinion, been proven. I therefore find it very remarkable that we suddenly have to learn from the media that some of these cycling points have been threatened and that funding will be stepped up. Local authorities have often made and supported efforts to participate in the cycling points. They must also be informed through the press, because they were not informed. I don't think that's good governance. Madam Minister, first of all, what reasons does SNCB give to stop the investment? Secondly, how much does SNCB intend to save? Thirdly, what exactly does that mean for the affected cycling points? In what way can they continue to exist? Fourthly, how will SNCB further promote the combination of bike and train? Isn't that a priority anymore? Does SNCB choose to have everyone drive the car to the stations as much as possible? If that is the option, then that must also be made clear. At least it's not our vision. Fifthly, what will the targeted monitoring and maintenance actions look like? At which stations will they be set up and at which stations will they not be set up? What criteria are used to determine this? Finally, are these plans final or is there still a negotiating margin? Is there still the possibility that the bicycle points will be restored in their old glory with the necessary support?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic191x.u42	SNCB announced that it would question its financial contributions to bike points as early as 2016. If the situation in Brussels seems to be viable thanks to the ASBL Cyclo, which is financed by the Brussels Region, in Flanders, 15 of the 41 existing bike points would be threatened. In Wallonia, the bike points are only 7. This is regrettable, but the Walloon Region is responsible for this lack of vitality. The issue of SNCB financing these bike points is therefore strategic. In the government agreement, it is written that "the integration of bicycles into multimodal transport will receive special attention. The train and the bike must complement each other." We are far from it, especially if SNCB decides to go to the end of this negative logic. Minister, do you think this decision by SNCB is consistent with these objectives? If such a decision were to be maintained, what would be the real impact on the various existing bike points? What are you proposing in practice to improve intermodality, which is an important part of your government statement, especially between cycling and the train?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic191x.u43	Colleagues, SNCB encourages the combination of train and bike in different ways and strives to continue to invest in large quality parking spaces for bicycles. On 1 January 2015, SNCB had 87,602 parking spaces for bicycles near the railway stations. SNCB offers shared bikes near the train stations in collaboration with Blue Mobility and also offers train+bike hire tickets. The customer is allowed to take a folding bike free of charge on the train or he can pay 5 euros for a simple trip with a regular bike or 8 euros to take a regular bike on the train all day long. The new railway equipment and, to the extent possible, the renovated rolling stock have multifunctional cars that allow the embarkation of bicycles. Bicycle points are activities operated by special economic organisations. The funding of the cycling points is carried out through different stakeholders. SNCB only reimburses these organisations for a number of tasks relating to the operation of bicycle storage facilities at the stations. In order to optimise the service to its customers and the internal optimisation of its activities, SNCB splits the services of the bicycle points into three levels, in particular A, B and C. In the A stations, SNCB retains the assignments as they are today. In the B stations, a number of assignments, such as permanence, are considered less important and are phased out. In the stations labeled C, SNCB will continue its activities (...) through cycling points from September 2016. There was no prior consultation with me as minister. SNCB met with my staff on Wednesday 13 May. Of the 51 bicycle points that have a contract with SNCB, 36 bicycle points with a higher number of passengers or cyclists will continue to be entrusted with the operation of the bicycle sheds. On expiry of the existing agreements in 15 stations, SNCB will no longer redistribute the services requested by means of a public contract. The survival of 15 other bicycle points will depend on the financial balance sheet of the organisations concerned. These are the stations of Mol, Geel, Sint-Truiden, Ghent, Mortsel-Old God, Turnhout, Torhout, Liedekerke, De Pinte, Ninove, Knokke, Londerzeel, Eeklo, Asse and Zele. Some tasks there will be taken over by SNCB staff in order to be carried out more efficiently without additional costs, while other services will be carried out by another agreement. SNCB had just started communicating with the relevant partners and stakeholders when the press published that information. SNCB is therefore looking for efficiency gains of around 25%, starting from the finding that certain tasks can be carried out by its own staff or more efficiently. For example, the cleaning of bicycle sheds at Type C stations will be carried out by SNCB's own services. The orphan bicycle actions to manage the stable of bicycles will be carried out through the individual framework agreements. Organisations operating bicycle points may also apply for participation in this public service contract. Mrs Temmerman, the punctual actions I mentioned relate to the removal of abandoned bicycles and to actions aimed at order and cleanliness. The repair of bicycles is not a task of SNCB. The exact impact on the staff of the bicycle points is not known by SNCB. Despite the decision of SNCB, my firm will ensure, under the next management contract, that intermodality is encouraged and that, therefore, the development of bicycles is supported both in the north and in the south of the country where the use of bicycles is really insufficient. Regions and communes must be involved in this dynamic and support. Meetings between firms have already been planned in this regard. I repeat that these decisions were taken on the board of directors. The sp.a and CD&V are represented. I also repeat that this is an operational decision.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic191x.u44	Madam Secretary, thank you for your comprehensive reply. I have heard a number of positive elements. The intermodality and compatibility between bicycles and trains are evidently emphasised, as is stated in the government agreement. This will apparently also be translated into the new management agreement. That seems to me to be an important point. A second point concerns the C stations, where a different service will be provided. I assume that this service will also be offered in stations where a cycling point is still active today. These are stations with many bicycle sheds where there is often a need for organisation and follow-up. An additional question is what will happen to the Blue-bikes. The bike points usually also manage the Blue-bikes. Do those Blue-bikes stay in the stations, even if the bicycle points disappear? Finally, I understand the operational decision, particularly in view of the current savings. However, I insist that the order of decisions and plans is not quite as it should be.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic191x.u45	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. It is clear that efficiency gains are the only motto and that services are no longer at the same level. Efficiency gains must also be linked to the services offered. This does not seem to be the case at all. You quote every time that there is a s.pa.her on the board of directors, but that has little to do with me. I'm just looking at the service in the stations. That service reduces in all respects, including in the major stations. I live near one of the largest stations in Flanders, but also in that station services are beginning to decrease. I wonder if you are following the same reasoning for car parking. I would like to see what their cost is and what they could gain from efficiency gains. It could be an interesting exercise to link that to the bicycle parkings and the bicycle points that will now be closed. Madam Minister, I do not understand, and I can bear witness to this myself, that in setting up the cycling points, SNCB asked the local authorities to cooperate on this issue. The distribution that took place between the different stakeholders was also determined there. It was therefore originally a question from SNCB, which several local authorities were happy to address. It is unacceptable that this decision should now be taken unilaterally, without involving local authorities, or only afterwards. You indicate that it depends on your own organisation and on the local authorities whether these matters will continue. In fact, you should admit that those fifteen cycling points will simply be closed. Those own non-profit organisations cannot afford to pay for the 40% that SNCB puts in those bicycle points themselves. The many cities and municipalities, especially in Flanders, cannot do that either. I cannot comment on Wallonia and Brussels, because I do not know enough about the situation there. In Flanders, however, the Flemish government is saving on so many things that the cities certainly don't have the resources to give that extra amount. I would therefore ask you to enter into dialogue with local organisations and try to find a solution with them.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic191x.u46	We'll wait for the lines. Then you can say a word.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic191x.u47	As I indicated in my reply, there have been leaks in the press. I do not reject the fault, but the representatives on the board should defend these points. The problem is that this happens in my home when the decision was made. It is therefore difficult to reverse.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic191x.u48	Madam Minister, we still have to feel sorry for you, because you are faced with such a decision by the Governing Board, in which your party is absolutely not represented. Your answer is disappointing. You can say how important it is to work on intermodality and that you will make it an important point in the next management agreement, but how will you build up what is being broken down today in a next management agreement? When things are closed, reversed or broken down, we all know that it will be very difficult to rebuild them afterwards. What you're here to say on this committee is completely unbelievable. I have the impression that efficiency gains are becoming a magic formula. Any measure taken which is negative for the provision of services is said to be for efficiency gains. That sounds good. That is the newspeak of the N-VA, which has penetrated this government and which you are gradually taking over. Everything is efficiency, but under the guise of efficiency gains, services are systematically built up. Madam Minister, you have not answered my question as to how much the SNCB will save by this measure. I don't think it's going to be really large amounts. We will not save tens of millions by taking this measure. I would like to hear how much savings are being made there and then I would like to set that amount against a number of other expenditures. Then we can discuss what measures are best taken in order to make SNCB more efficient. Madam Secretary, my conclusion is that you, as a minister, are not responding. You let that happen. It is clear that this government is a government of the car, which saves heavily on the railways and on a number of aspects related to bicycle traffic. That's the line of this government. That is quite clear, and that is absolutely not our line.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic191x.u49	Madam Chair, you will understand that I do not know what is happening on the Board of Directors of SNCB. That's a fact. First of all, I don't sit there. I look forward to it every day. I do not think that there are others either, directly or indirectly. We are therefore condemned to reading the press. It's not a very harsh or difficult conviction. It is rather, as far as SNCB is concerned, a source of information that we do not have in other ways, unlike some. As a parliamentarian, I can try to control the government. Controlling you, minister, is even more difficult. But what does the government tell us in its statement? I quote: "The integration of bicycles into multimodal transport will receive special attention. The train and the bike must complement each other." I didn't read the Dutch translation. But "more," I feel like it means "more and better" than what exists. Should I therefore understand that the Board of Directors of SNCB makes decisions contrary to the government agreement? You'll tell me it doesn't matter in itself. But this is still problematic when we talk about the management contract, the staffing that guarantees public funding for SNCB and public service missions. You tell us "the next management contract." I'm going to go to the essentials. This next management contract is fundamental. You can already imagine how many times we've alluded to it. I invite you, Madam Minister, to negotiate it well, but above all to decree once and for all and to inform the Board of Directors through your Commissioner of Government. If I'm well informed, there's a government commissioner on the Board of Directors of SNCB. It must reflect the fact that decisions can't be made like this, unlike what is being promoted in the government statement, especially with regard to the link with the bike. I think it is in the interest of sustainable development in this country and sustainable mobility to do more for cycling and not to let SNCB do it when it comes to this.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic191x.u50	I ask colleagues to respect the three-minute, two-minute, one-minute timing, otherwise I will have to interrupt them. At the moment, we are ten minutes away for each question. I would point out that the minister must leave between 5:30 p.m. and 6:00 p.m.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic191x.u51	Madam Minister, passenger information is displayed in stations and on the train and on electronic screens. It would be the rule that this information is provided only in the language of the part of the country where the train is at that time. In practice, this sometimes causes confusion. Let me give an example from my region, the train from Brussels that is being decoupled in Kortrijk. A number of trains go towards Poperinge, the other towards France to Lille-Flandres. This decoupling is only announced in Kortrijk in Dutch, with the result that quite a few French-speaking people do not understand the message and only arrive late to discover it in a wrong part of the train. In the context of the commemoration of the First World War, many English speakers are also present in the region, who do not understand such messages at all. Madam Secretary, what are the legal provisions that are being applied? Do you think it would be appropriate to make any adjustments to this with regard to travellers?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic191x.u52	In stations of an international character, trains are announced in four languages in this order: first Dutch and then French or vice versa, then German and finally English. International trains and trains to the airport are currently being announced in four languages in the three major Brussels stations Brussels-North, Brussels-Central and Brussels-South, in the major stations if they have an automatic announcement system and in the Brussels-National Airport station, given the international nature of this station. In addition to these exceptions, SNCB's staff must comply strictly with the language law. In the Dutch language area the announcements are made in Dutch, in the French language area the announcements are made in French, in the German language area the announcements are made in German and then in French, in the French language area with facilities, the announcements are made in the two national languages and first in French, in the Dutch language area with facilities, the announcements are made in the two national languages and first in Dutch, and in the territory of Brussels-Capital the announcements are made in the two national languages and first in the language of the staff member's language role.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic191x.u53	Madam President, I would like to thank the Minister for her reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic191x.u54	Madam President, Madam Minister, in Belgium, it is not currently possible to declare the registration of a car or motorcycle for a fixed period of time. Take the example of caravans, collectible cars, cabriolets or motorcycles that only come out for a few months a year. However, the seasonal plate is applicable in several neighbouring countries. In Germany, for example, the regulation of the temporary traffic plate has existed since 1997 and two million motorists in Germany have been able to benefit from it until today. Thus, to the right of the plate is printed two figures indicating the months between which the vehicle is registered and can therefore be mobilised on the public road. The road user pays his traffic taxes according to his driving intentions, which can range from two months to ten months a year. Up to now, the administration collects the tax for a whole year in advance and returns the amount not used after a few months in the event of the cancellation of the circulation plate, which, you suspect, constitutes a significant surplus of work. Minister, my questions are as follows. What is your opinion about this regulation? Whether it is opportunity or not, or whether it is an opportunity for reform? Is it possible to establish such a regulation in Belgium?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic191x.u55	Madam President, Mrs Jadin, in addition to the advantages you list, there are some disadvantages to the temporary registration system. Thus, temporary registration creates the risk that the temporary plate may be used after the expiry of the period of validity, resulting in a significant increase in the necessary checks. Furthermore, the introduction of a temporary plate system would have a significant impact on the traffic tax, which is now a regional competence. The current Belgian system provides that a registration plate may be cancelled only after the holder has physically surrendered that plate, the movement tax remaining due until such time as the transaction is carried out. Temporary registration would also have an influence on technical inspection, also under regional jurisdiction, as well as on insurance. As you will understand, such a measure would require extensive consultation with the Regions and other partners, such as insurers or GOCA. I am therefore not sure that the benefits of temporary registration are so great or that they lead to a simplification of the current administrative procedures.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic191x.u56	Thank you very much Minister, I will share this information.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic191x.u57	Ladies and gentlemen, we have reached point 19, which has ten questions. The same colleague sometimes has two questions to ask; he will ask them at the same time. I'm talking about MM. Geerts and Cheron and Mrs. Poncelet. I will arrest you after four minutes for those who have two questions and after three minutes for those who have a question. Otherwise, we will not move forward.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic191x.u58	Madam President, I have a question about timing. I've read the other questions. Do I have to put them all in one place?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic191x.u59	Mr Geerts, if you make the introductory statement and it is not taken up by your colleagues, I may be more cogent with you. Go on.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic191x.u60	Madam Minister, through the press, again, we have heard a number of echoes on the audit report. Last week, together with a number of other fellow Members, I asked you questions about this in plenary. However, we did not get so concrete answers, not as concrete as the newspapers L.Echo and De Tijd did. So I suppose there are not only representatives of sp.a., CD&V and MR, but also of L.Echo and other newspapers on the board, because they do have the documents and we do not. Another new element compared to last week is that the former CEO of SNCB, Mr Vinck, said that the chairman of the board could not possibly stay in such a climate. Another new element in the discussion is the question of what Eurostation actually taught, a more or less value, so that this aspect can also be discussed. I have some very specific questions, Madam Secretary. Could you explain the audit in detail in Parliament? That's why we don't have to do that today. You can also simply deliver the audit to us, because MEPs are also important, alongside the newspapers. How many employees were sanctioned? What are the irregularities? How could they happen? How could one bypass control? What further steps will SNCB take? Do you think the chairman of the board can still function? What was the net result of Eurostation for the years 2012, 2013 and 2014? What was the financial impact for SNCB?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic191x.u61	Madam President, Minister, a few days ago, Mr Cornu announced that the audit conducted by Ernst & Young within SNCB's real estate subsidiaries had identified "a set of anomalies of varying nature and severity." As a result, we learned of the dismissal of the legal and financial directors of Eurostation, a few weeks after that of Mr Persoons. The other Thursday, L'Écho and De Tijd detailed the content of this audit – to which parliamentarians do not have access – after "crusting" revelations, including disproportionate and inappropriate representation and mouth expenses, delegations of non-compliant signatures, unjustified cost notes and questionable investments abroad. At this stage, except for a judicial investigation, these behaviors seem, in my view, to flirt with the rule of law and go far beyond the limits of good governance. While the SNCB is in the current situation – I will not recall the slowdown in fundamental investments such as the RER, the abolition of a number of services to citizens (window closures, reduction of supply on small and medium lines) and the increase in tariffs – this type of behaviour is simply scandalous and gives a pathetic image of SNCB. Yet it fulfils an essential mission for society at all levels: environmental, economic and social. Beyond the people questioned so far, it seems to me that drastic decisions must be taken without waiting for the modernisation plan. Indeed, the current directors of the subsidiaries in question, as well as the chairman of the Board of Directors of SNCB, are directly involved and remain in place. Minister, pending possible legal action, will strong disciplinary action be taken against the directors of the affected subsidiaries and the chairman of the board of directors? Following the legal opinion given by a company, do the SNCB managers have the opportunity to report the facts to the courts on the basis of the elements of the report? Will they choose this most logical path? Have you given specific instructions to the Commissioner of the Government to the SNCB? Without waiting for the famous modernisation plan, which is a bit of a drag, will this type of audit be programmed in all SNCB's subsidiaries? Madam President, I did as quickly as possible and at best at the same time.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic191x.u62	Madam President, I would like to sum up the two questions into one, since the context has been very well achieved by my colleagues. I agree with the request for this audit to be presented to Parliament. Is it certain that the facts revealed are limited to these two companies? Are further investigations under way? Are there any prosecutions against those responsible for the acts alleged in the audit? However, these are serious criminal penalties. What measures are being taken to strengthen the sound management of subsidiaries and the means available to them? Minister, what initiatives are you going to take to prevent such events from happening again?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic191x.u63	Madam Minister, my fellow Members have already opened the matter, so I shall be brief. We now have an audit of Ernst & Young, but an audit has already been carried out by the Court of Auditors in 2012, and it has already revealed several practices that are now re-emerging, such as non-compliance with public procurement legislation, lack of supervision and control of subsidiaries, lack of contracts in certain projects and the level of invoiced performance by Eurostation. Now we read in the press that Ernst & Young's audit adds a number of things, such as the abuse of business resources for personal pleasure, restaurant and hotel costs. The supervision of the subsidiaries has therefore clearly failed. However, in 2012, the Court of Auditors recommended that the internal follow-up of all subsidiaries should be carried out in a generalised and uniform manner across the SNCB group. The CEO intervened by tightening the governance rules. Madam Secretary, how will you improve internal control of the subsidiaries? What specific changes has been made to the governance rules by the SNCB Board of Directors? Is it true that SNCB's board of directors delivered its opinion on 19 June on the legal consequences of Ernst & Young's audit?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic191x.u64	Minister, I will not comment on what my colleagues have described. I would be remiss if I did not point out how much these revelations are undermining your recent remarks aimed at becoming more and more in line with economic and budgetary realities, particularly as regards the construction of new railway stations which are not in line with the rail offer. At a time when it is intended to raise passenger rates, these lavish expenditures by SNCB executives appear scandalous and tarnish the image of public service. The party I represent had already, during the last term of office, stressed how this multi-subsidiaries splinter of the SNCB Group could eventually become uncontrollable and undermined the financial credibility of the public company. The Court of Auditors had, moreover, thoroughly pinned these abuses. The fact that the chairman of the Board of Directors of the SNCB, certainly involved in these management failures, is of the same political colour as you, Madam Minister, is anecdotal. What is serious is the total lack of control, the evaluation of public policies carried out within these subsidiaries and the unpleasant impression that the governance of these subsidiaries is completely beyond the control of the SNCB Group. I understand, however, that you cannot be blamed, in your capacity as the appropriate minister, for being responsible for acts related to these Ernst & Young audits dating back to the period 2010-2014. Nevertheless, the federal government agreement is clear: the many activities carried out through the subsidiaries and holdings of SNCB and Infrabel will be rigorously analysed in the light of the essential tasks of public enterprises and phased out where this proves useful. What concrete measures do you intend to take in this case? Is a judicial follow-up to these breaches envisaged? More generally, do you intend to propose a specific plan of savings and rationalization within these subsidiaries in accordance with the government agreement?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic191x.u65	Madam Minister, much has already been said and many questions have already been asked. Let me add a few more. First of all, what exactly was the audit's mission? What specific research questions were submitted to Ernst & Young? Secondly, on the basis of the audit, two staff members were dismissed. What exactly are they accused of? That question has not yet been addressed here. Are they accused of misuse of certain resources for what some colleagues call "fun" or are they considered responsible for the misuse of funds by others? Who would that be about? Then why are they not called into question? I have another element. The audit has now vetted two subsidiaries. The intention was to target the whole of the SNCB group's subsidiaries, to check whether the organisations are doing a good job and whether they can still be useful in the future. Are further steps being taken on other subsidiaries? There are still countless, I think of Ypto for example. A review of these other subsidiaries might also produce interesting results. Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic191x.u66	Colleagues, as soon as I took office, I was questioned by the internal functioning and, following the press exchanges between the CEO and the SNCB President, on 9 March 2015, I sent a letter asking SNCB and its management bodies to use an audit of three SNCB subsidiaries: Eurostation, Eurogare and Euro Immo Star. Following a public consultation on the market, SNCB entrusted the mission to Ernst & Young on 30 March. The audit covered an analysis of the financial flows between SNCB and the three subsidiaries, compliance with legal provisions, respect for internal governance, and compliance with the obvious rules of good management. In this context, Ernst & Young examined in detail: - the financial flows relating to projects between SNCB, Infrabel and other third parties and subsidiaries; - sources of funding, overheads, risks of ongoing contracts; - internal rules to identify the risks of new projects and compliance with signing powers; - reporting to the mother house. On Thursday 28 May, the day on which SNCB's board of directors met, I received the final report. I immediately repeated that it was my duty to obtain transparency in relation to the subsidiaries. I also asked the board of directors, which took note of my letter, to confirm the truth and to evaluate the seriousness of any facts or actions that would appear to be interpretative. I repeat, as a sovereign body, it belongs to the Board of Directors of SNCB and only to that Board to draw an appropriate conclusion. That is why, following the presentation of the conclusions of the report, the Management Board sought legal advice as to whether further steps should be considered in addition to the internal measures proposed by the delegated director. These internal measures include, as you can already read in the press, the dismissal of two Eurostation managers, new rules on governance and the establishment of internal procedures between the parent company and its subsidiaries. The next meeting of the Management Board, on 19 June, will have to assess the legal opinions received and the follow-up to be given. The Governing Board will also have to finalise the review of governance. Although, as a minister, I am not allowed to interfere in the internal administration of public undertakings, I would like to repeat that I want transparency throughout the board of SNCB. That is why I will continue to work on a modernisation plan, or rather on a true strategic vision for the coming years. Some of you would like to have a copy of these audit reports or, at the very least, be consulted in committee. I must make it clear that the reports signed by Ernst & Young remain confidential. It is regrettable, moreover, that the press has it as quickly as possible. Only the Management Board is competent to request the waiver of the confidentiality of the report, which was commissioned by the Audit Committee. The general terms and conditions of the agreement between SNCB and Ernst & Young provide that Ernst & Young shall give prior approval for any use other than that provided for in the basic mission. So let the board of directors take care of it. I would add that the tabling of the report in Parliament would render any subsequent filing of a complaint inoperative. It would be impossible for the Public Prosecutor's Office to carry out effective investigative duties if all the elements were already known to all, possibly with the disappearance of evidence or the collusion of witnesses. As for the question of whether a supplementary audit should be carried out on other subsidiaries of the SNCB Group, I do not think it would be useful at this stage to continue this examination. Is it not essential to take corrective action and the will for a radical change in culture and governance? This audit was the trigger. I will, however, remain more than attentive to the effective implementation of these measures and decisions. In my turn, and as far as I'm concerned, I now prefer to focus on the future by bringing a strategic vision to the two public companies, focusing all our action on the client's approach and satisfaction.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic191x.u67	Madam President, Minister, thank you for your reply. I shall begin with a reply to your reply on the legal responsibility for whether or not to give the report to Parliament. You say that this would have consequences for the possible criminal prosecution. That's right, but I find that note was leaked to the newspapers, probably from the nuclear cabinet. There is also a huge responsibility. What you have just said about legal responsibility, I think you should also tell the members of the nuclear cabinet.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic191x.u68	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic191x.u69	I don't have that audit, which is why I'm asking for it. However, when I read the newspapers every day after the nuclear cabinet, I know where the wind is blowing. You refer to the origin of the audit. That was the correspondence between the CEO and the chairman of the Management Board. I asked you a question about that. You replied that you would support the request for an audit. At the same time, I asked you to what extent the chairman of the Management Board could then continue to perform his duties with full authority. Other Members of this House have asked for this again today. I can only conclude now, on the basis of newspaper articles, because I cannot read the audit, that the chairman of the board is named in it. If that is true, should your government commissioner not act on 19 June to avenge at least the chairman of the board of directors? One cannot be a judge and a party at the same time. If the Management Board has to take a decision calling the Chairman of the Management Board, if I can believe those articles, then it cannot legally do so. That is why I am asking you, in addition, whether you will give your Government Commissioner a mandate, with the consent of the entire government, so that the Chairman of the Governing Board will take a step aside on 18 June at 11:59 p.m. in the light of the Governing Board on 19 June.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic191x.u70	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. I tried to listen carefully. I am the first to acknowledge that you took an initiative with this letter that prompted the audit in question. Those are the facts. This audit has produced a number of things that we are aware of from a parliamentary point of view, and as far as I am concerned only, I would say exclusively, in the press. What I also learn from the press is that these are not totally anodistic facts. A legal opinion was requested on the basis of the audit (it is not the audit itself, it is a legal opinion) and the question asked was basically: does this, i.e. the content proven by the audit, justify or not an additional step, but then, with regard to the judiciary? We will therefore try to respect and Monstesquieu, and the law of Parliament, the role of the minister and the board of directors. The legal opinion does not settle, it says "it is possible". If we say that, obviously, there are elements that can be interpreted as falling within the jurisdiction of the judiciary. That's what I'm holding back. You talked about what you did, that is, the approach that prompted the audit. It's the past. You talk a lot about the future. I understand, but I want to talk about the present because the present is always these people, members of the Board of Directors of SNCB and all that comes from it, through the subsidiaries that are still there. I have learned that the same people often repeat the same mistakes. I'm worried. And so, too, I want to ask you the question of the role of the Commissioner of Government. I understand that we are in a difficult area from a legal point of view and respect for powers. The role of the Board of Directors is the role of the Board of Directors. But I'm not going to be told that the government is totally powerless. Where are we? If the government is powerless, then there is a real danger in the home. At the very least, the government commissioner is not obliged to be silent on the board of directors. He certainly has an advisory voice, but no one commands him to remain silent. I hope, however, that on the basis of the facts as they are found and of a legal opinion - and here I may be speaking indirectly to the Board of Directors since I cannot speak directly to him - there will be a good reflection on the follow-up which it is for this matter to be followed up. For the matter is serious; it is serious on its own, but it is even more so in a context where we want a modern SNCB, with good governance that justifies; for travellers, a genuine mobility policy. That's what this is about. Many of my colleagues have made the connection between what has been revealed around this subsidiary and the current debates on tariff increases and on the lines to which we are going to touch. I think we're not the only ones who make this connection. This is about the credibility of the political power and of the SNCB itself, because it has a public allocation that justifies the government not remaining powerless.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic191x.u71	Minister, I obviously agree with the comments of my colleagues. Would it not be possible, Madam Chair, Madam Minister, for the results of this audit to be presented in committee, in camera, in order to respect confidentiality. This could take place after the board of directors on June 19. We must not accept not to receive complete information after such serious facts, even if I find it a pity that we must get there.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic191x.u72	Madam President, Minister, thank you for your reply. In their reply, I hear colleagues speaking about the letter between the CEO and the chairman, which gave rise to this audit. I also mentioned in my question the audit of the Court of Auditors in 2012. I wasn't here myself at the time, but others were, and it's really a mystery to me how it just came to light. How long have these practices been going on? We would like to know. Madam Secretary, we wish you every success. You are actually the prime minister who wants to get to the bottom of things and who wants transparency in the subsidiaries. This seems perfectly right to me, because it is about public enterprises operating with public funds. I believe that this is the self-evident fact. I hope that on 19 June the drivers will take their responsibility and make the right decision, because the whole thing is very bad for the image of our railway company, for the passengers and for the workers. I have not been able to read a single positive article in the press about Eurostation, and that alone says enough. We will continue to follow up this dossier.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic191x.u73	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. You've taken many steps, but what's more normal? You have a duty to ask for transparency in this case. Having said that, I did not have an answer to my question about the possible legal action to be taken. When you know all the savings you want to make at the SNCB level, when you see the abuses committed within its subsidiaries, you realize that there is still a lot of work to be done. I agree with Mr Cheron: there are still a lot of steps to be taken. It is essential that the situation be clear. A closed hearing would probably be a good way to obtain all the necessary clarity.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic191x.u74	Madam President, although I know that Parliament has the last word, I would like to remind you that it is up to the Board of Directors to decide on the follow-up to this audit. That is why before June 19th, we will be unable to decide anything. It will be up to the directors to decide on any prosecutions. We can talk about it again, but after June 19.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic191x.u75	Colleagues, the minister therefore invites you to discuss this subject again after the board of directors.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic191x.u76	Madam President, I learned one thing when I entered Parliament, that the parliamentarian always has the last word.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic191x.u77	That's why I'm giving you another minute.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic191x.u78	I sacrifice thirty seconds to rejoice at having the last word. And I will use the last thirty seconds to say this to the minister: yes, but you have a government commissioner. You're not forbidden to talk to him. You are not prohibited from giving him instructions, even if he has only one advisory voice.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic191x.u79	Before I give the floor to Mrs Poncelet on her question on airline pilots, I would like to point out to the committee that the two questions on the agenda must necessarily be developed this week, at the risk of failing to comply with the Rules of Procedure. At 5 p.m., I will proceed to the scheduled arrests.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic191x.u80	Minister, air transportation, despite recent disasters, remains the safest mode of travel in the world. The profession has evolved considerably. It is shared between long-haul flights and those that allow a one-day round trip. It is possible to count up to four take-offs and landings during the same day for the same pilot. It's very tiring, both physically and nervously. The question of training is therefore of paramount importance. To become a pilot, there is a privileged industry within some airlines, but few seats are available. Another solution is to go through a private school. There are several of them in Belgium, which allow a pilot to train in just under two years at a cost of around 90,000 euros. The training given in these private schools meets the requirements of Europe, which has simplified the various programmes by establishing a minimum common curriculum 12 years ago. Candidates must pass the examination imposed by Europe. It consists of a QCM, all of which are on the Internet. The success rate is between 90 and 95 per cent. In the face of this information, we can question the level of pilots who have graduated through these private schools. Minister, can you confirm the success rate of pilot candidates enrolled in private schools? Is the level of training of licensed pilots monitored? Are the services provided in schools verified? Is there an entry examination in all these schools? How many holders of a Belgian "Frozen ATPL" licence do you not qualify as a transport aircraft? What is the number of holders of the same licence with a type rating of transport aircraft, paid for by themselves? What is the success rate of the ATPL theoretical tests? What is the rate of failure in the professional pilot and instrument tests? What is your position on the issue of pilot training?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic191x.u81	Ms. Poncelet, the 90% success rate mentioned is very real, but it must be nuanced. It should be noted that every person who participates in a theoretical examination to obtain a flight authorization has four sessions per module to succeed, which must take place within 18 months. In principle, the airline pilot licence can only be obtained after training in an approved European training organisation. These ATOs are supervised by both national (DGTA) and international (EASA) authorities. Training programmes are standardized and require prior approval by the DGTA. Control is exercised by DGTA on the basis of regular audits of ATOs. The frequency of audits is determined by a European regulation. During these audits, the functioning and performance of the ATO are reviewed. After training, the candidate is tested by an independent reviewer to determine whether he or she meets the minimum requirements and has the skills to obtain a flight licence. ATOs are required, prior to the start of the integrated aircraft pilot training, to test candidates on their knowledge of physics, mathematics and English. There are 769 holders of a Belgian licence without a type rating of transport aircraft. DGTA does not have the information on the number of holders of a Belgian licence with a type rating of transport aircraft, paid for by themselves. The full ATPL theoretical examination consists of fourteen modules. Each candidate is entitled to four sessions to pass a course. If he did not succeed after four sessions, he must resubmit all the modules. The current examination system does not allow statistics to be generated on the candidate's level. Overall, 2014 statistics indicate that the success rate for the majority of subjects is between 60 and 80%. Experience tells us that the success rate after three catch-up sessions is about 90-95%. The failure rate in the CPL and IR flight tests is close to 0%. This result is the combination of the opportunity to re-examine the exam an unlimited number of times and the very high motivation of the candidates, proportional to the amounts disbursed at this stage. DGTA scrupulously enforces the voluminous European regulations on this subject. It appears, however, that it is more of the level of a professional baccalaureate, while Belgian regulations were closer to the level of a master's degree.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic191x.u82	Minister, I will share this very technical response with the interested parties.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic191x.u83	Mr. Chairman, Madam Minister, in December 2014, the Board of Directors of SNCB appointed Olivier Henin, currently Chief of Staff of Deputy Prime Minister Didier Reynders, to the position of Financial Director of SNCB to replace Michel Allé, whose term expired at the end of April 2015. Olivier Henin was originally scheduled to take up his duties on May 2. The press reveals that he will only take up his duties at the end of this summer. Currently, Michel Allé would still work at SNCB as a consultant. Madam Minister, why did Olivier Henin not take up his duties on 2 May? Since Mr. Henin has not yet taken up office with SNCB, can you confirm that he is not yet paid for this function?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic191x.u84	Mr. Henin's contract comes into effect on September 1st and he does not receive any remuneration prior to his entry into service.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic191x.u85	That is clear and precise.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic191x.u86	Minister, in 1997 the industrial line 289 was inaugurated linking line 155 at the height of the so-called Saint-Lambert bifurcation. It serves the Valvert water plant, located in the industrial zoning of Gantaufet in Etalle. This investment has been financed by the Walloon Region at 80%. In 2009, water traffic was stopped from Valvert. In July 2010, the company managing the Valvert site informed Infrabel of the abandonment of its railway connection. It appears from some rumours that the final deletion of lines 155 and 289 would go back to the carpet as part of the restructuring of installations which had become useless and unused for more than five years. We can therefore fear somewhat for the future of this line Marbehan-Croix-Rouge-Valvert. It would be a shame to see it disappear all the more as last year, major weed removal work was undertaken there, also with a reactivation of the crossing signal lights. It also comes to my mind that other operators than B-Logistics would be looking for new customers on this line. Abolition would therefore destroy their hopes and would also be detrimental to the development and activities of the Marbehan railway station. Minister, are you aware of Infrabel's intentions to delete this line? Do you intend to intervene to maintain this line?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic191x.u87	Mrs Poncelet, this is not the deletion of line 289 but a deactivation. There is no traffic on the line since Valvert abandoned the transmission of water by rail. Decommissioning is intended to avoid the costs associated with maintaining the running of a line, including the costs associated with the power supply of signalling, the inspection and maintenance of track and track equipment, and the necessary renewals. However, a minimum maintenance is applied: weed removal, maintenance of works of art for the safety of third parties. A reopening is of course always possible and will require work required by the state of the infrastructure at that time.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic191x.u88	Thank you for that answer. It reassures me: there is always a future.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic191x.u89	The next item on the agenda is Question No Mr Geerts.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic191x.u90	Mr President, in view of the busy agenda, I will turn this question into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic191x.u91	Mr President, Minister, we have just heard a broad introduction on cycling points. This question concerns a more specific case in the sense that the division into categories has taken place. In the highest category, these are stations which have more than 2 500 passengers per day and where more than 1 000 places are available in the stables. Following the evaluation carried out, Lier's station would in any case go to category B for the bicycle point. However, this evaluation was carried out with old figures and they no longer apply, because, as you know, today the Lier station counts more than 1 000 places in the bicycle shed and, on that basis, it actually meets the conditions of category A, as has just been explained. Madam Minister, can you confirm the decision on the bicycle point at Lier's station, given that it was made on the basis of incorrect figures? Secondly, will you commission a new evaluation on the basis of the current figures? Thirdly, what is the timing for the final decision, taking into account that wrong figures have been used?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic191x.u92	Madam President, with regard to Lier's cycling point, the bicycle shed has been extended very recently to more than 1 000 places for bicycles. SNCB informs me that an adjustment of the decision can be evaluated on the basis of the adapted situation, but it cannot give any timing for this.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic191x.u93	Madam Secretary, that's good news. SNCB itself stated in the press that the share of cyclists in Lier is high, i.e. 26%. That's a big deal. We are therefore looking forward to a new evaluation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic191x.u94	Madam President, Madam Minister, I already asked a question at the plenary session on 5 March on the ASTB strike, in which you replied that the requirements of the ASTB would have a budgetary impact of 40 million. However, SNCB stated on 20 May that the unreasonable requirements would have an impact of EUR 15 million per year. Meanwhile, it appeared in the media that the ASTB is threatening to strike again. Within three days, the SNCB Directorate will have to provide a serious response to the requirements, otherwise it will be necessary to stop again, even if it is not specified when that would be. One of the grievances concerns the remuneration of drivers, who have been taken from 12 years of seniority to 18 years. In addition, the ASTB is suing the opaque premium system and the fact that it is not represented in the social consultation, which is a duopoly of the ACOD and the ACV. Nevertheless, train drivers have a major impact on train traffic. During the previous strike a large number of trains drove, but as soon as such a strike is announced, evil has already happened, because then the passengers are looking for a different solution. So we are in a stalemate, Madam Secretary, and hence my questions. Firstly, what explains the difference between EUR 40 million and EUR 15 million? What is the correct impact of the requirements? Secondly, is the salary premium for drivers of 12 years of seniority taken to 18 years? If so, was this change also made for the other occupational categories? Why was that change made? How will you break this stalemate?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic191x.u95	Madam President, in July 2014, the ASTB had the file "Train driver," a fascinating profession. Files, premiums and revaluation of the career record, transferred to the Belgian Railways. This proposed a new career plan for all control staff, namely the train drivers, the drivers-ranges and the promotional levels within this category of personnel. New baremas and benefits were requested for the entire control staff. All these requirements were estimated at an annual increase of 40 million for train operators. At a later stage, the ASTB reduced the wage requirements and limited itself to three points, which meant an annual increase of EUR 15 million in remuneration costs. The transition to a higher pay scale used to be 15% of train drivers after 12 years. From 1 January 2000, the higher scale was awarded to all train drivers, not after 12 years but after 20 years. The period of 20 years was reduced from 2001 to 18 years. The same change also happened for the substation chiefs. For this category, a limited number of substation chiefs were also allocated the higher scale until 1999. From 2000 onwards, the higher scale was granted to all substation chiefs on the same terms. Social dialogue is the responsibility of those responsible for the Belgian Railways.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic191x.u96	Madam Minister, thank you for the clear answer. We hope that a breakthrough will come out of the deadlock, because we are the victims of a war between the trade unions. Only the traveller is the victim of that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic191x.u97	Madam President, Madam Minister, as you know, aircraft must, in principle, land in front of the wind. As such, different tracks are used depending on the direction of the direction. Runway 01 in a south-north axis is normally used for landings when the rear wind on Runway 25 R exceeds seven knots. So this is a secondary track. The selection of this runway is therefore determined according to wind standards. While the current standards can still be discussed, it must be admitted that, without instructions to the contrary, these standards must be respected. Minister, are they really? Indeed, in April 2015, Runway 01 was used almost non-stop while wind conditions did not impose it. I am thinking more specifically of the period from 18 to 23 April this year. Can you explain why? What steps do you intend to take to ensure that this does not happen again?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic191x.u98	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I do not wish to derogate from the principle of runways 25 in Brussels-National as preferential tracks and from runway 01 as an alternative track. The latter must therefore only be used when air safety controls it or when the rear wind and/or ferry standards are exceeded, i.e. 7 knots of aft wind, including gusts, or 20 knots of a ferry wind. Unfortunately, this has been the case in recent weeks. We have asked Belgocontrol, the agency responsible for air traffic management, to provide us with the reasons or objections justifying the derogations from the preferential system of runway use in recent weeks. In addition to purely meteorological reasons, it should be noted that there may be other reasons for using a secondary runway: the closure of a preferred runway or taxiway, wet runways, winds which, in the end, may pose a danger to safe landings, reduced visibility, etc. I asked Belgocontrol, in addition to the one on the moratorium, for a detailed monitoring of the use of Runway 01, which is also published on the site batc.be.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic191x.u99	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. You are aware that the use of Runway 01 poses a problem for many municipalities that are either directly involved or in the axis. It is therefore important for everyone to comply with the standards in force. I hear the weather is a major factor. However, in this particular period, the weather could not explain the humidity of the tracks because it was beautiful that week. I wonder to what extent, when standards are no longer met, there is no difficulty in changing devices. I understand that you do not intend at all to derogate from the principle of the use of Preferential Track 25, which will reassure many of my colleagues.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic191x.u100	Unfortunately, the visit to Belgocontrol scheduled for this Friday has been postponed due to the lack of combatants. I think that if parliamentarians were really interested in the institutions that run our skies, they would better understand the use of certain avenues.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic191x.u101	But this visit will be made; it is not postponed forever.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic191x.u102	Madam Minister, we all know by now that in mid-May 2015 a ruling had been made on the famous Leuven straight ahead flight route, after a number of municipalities had initiated an interim proceedings against that flight route. We have had an opportunity to discuss the issue before. On 6 May 2015, your answer to an oral question I asked at the time showed that there was indeed a law firm responsible for defending the interests of the State. However, the notification of the ruling shows that in absentia the State was ordered to restore the routes in force prior to the introduction of the Leuven route. That message seems to be somewhat contrasted with your answer. The question that concerns everyone is, of course, whether you will oppose it. In addition, do you see the return to the old situation effectively as a long-term solution or are you working on an alternative? In doing so, it may or may not be a factor of importance. In addition, I can imagine that other groups of residents, both in the affected and in other regions of the Community, will also fight against the new or restored routes. I have a number of questions. Has the verdict been served in the meantime? I thought so. What are the exact consequences of the ruling? Are you sure this is about a conviction in absentia? What role has the law firm, which you mentioned on 6 May 2015, played? When was it appointed? Will you object to the decision? Is the court's ruling for you a final solution or are you currently looking at other slopes? In what time can the ruling be carried out, in a realistic way? There's a penalty payment within three months. It seems to me, however, somewhat unrealistic to be able to implement the changes in practice in that period. Finally, what steps are you taking to restore peace and stability in this matter, especially given that it is not unthinkable that other groups of residents will take action in the light of the two statements on Brussels and Leuven? I do mean legal action. Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic191x.u103	Madam President, Madam Minister, Justice has delivered judgments requiring the removal of the so-called road 07 "all right" or "Leuven Rechtdoor", at the request of the municipalities of Rotselaar, Haacht and Holsbeek, and the city of Aarschot. This route consists of allowing aircraft to take off from Runway 07 and continue straight ahead before turning south beyond Leuven bypassing the latter east and thus flying over the last non-aedificandi area around the national airport. This non-constructible nature of the premises was enshrined in Flemish regional settlement plans but was not respected in some places. This decision is not without consequences for the western and south-western municipalities of Leuven, which were flying from 2004 to 2014 under the Ancial Plan, and also for the municipalities of Walloon Brabant. Indeed, if the planes do not continue straight ahead, they will obviously bifurcate, resume this old road and fly over the municipalities of Walloon Brabant since they will be returned to the Huldenberg beacon. Heavy penalties of EUR 50 000 per day of infringement are provided for failure to comply with the rule within three months. Given the time it takes to change the routes on Runway 25N, it is highly unlikely that the Mobility and Belgocontrol FPS will be able to meet this deadline. What do you think and what do you intend to do? In addition, will the State oppose such judgements? The Ombudsman is surprised at the ease with which the judge rejected Route 07 straight away when he says that this route is a fair solution. Can you give us an overview of the alternatives to this track 07 straight? Do you think you will return to the situation that existed before the implementation of Phase 7 of the Wathelet Plan? How do you feel about all these repeated court decisions that, in my opinion, demonstrate a serious problem? Little by little, the problem of overflight of dwellings is being referred from one group of riparians to another group of riparians. This leaves less and less room for manoeuvre on the part of the political authorities to propose satisfactory structural solutions to which you are seeking.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic191x.u104	Madam President, the judgments of the 07-Rotselaar and 11-Haacht-Holsbeek-Aarschot oblige the State has ceased to use route 07 straight or Leuven rechtdoor within three months of their service, which for the judgment of 11 May 2015 took place on 1 June 2015. The State has until 1 September 2015 to execute. After that, he will have to pay a penalty payment of 50 000 euros per day late. Belgocontrol and the Directorate-General for Air Transport are already examining the various possible alternatives, on the understanding that a pure and simple cessation of the use of this road, without being replaced by other roads, would have catastrophic consequences for the operation of the airport. The failure of the State is obviously not intended and is the result of an involuntary hiatus, which will not happen again, in the communication between the firm, the SPF and the firm of Stibbe lawyers. I am currently evaluating the advisability of opposing this judgment. Since you ask me how I feel about these repeated judgments and the demands that accompany them, I can tell you that I am very sensitive to the legitimate demands of the inhabitants of the periphery of the airport, regardless of the Region in which they live, who wish to see as much as possible the noise nuisances inherent in life in or near a big city like Brussels and especially its airport. In my capacity as Federal Minister in charge of Mobility, and therefore in charge of Brussels National Airport, it is my duty to ensure that the airport is maintained and that its activities can be further developed. It should not be forgotten that these airport activities are an exceptional economic lever for our country and a source of employment for thousands of people. That is why, together with DGLV and Belgocontrol, and in accordance with the government agreement, it is my intention to present a formula for flights above the edge of the airport, which is at the same time best suited to the well-being of its inhabitants and which is most compatible with the activities of the airport.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic191x.u105	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. I trust that we will come back to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic191x.u106	Madam Minister, thank you. I'm delighted to hear that you're planning to oppose it. This seems to me to be a good idea at first. However, it may also be appropriate for you to put the different residents or associations around the table. It would still seem that Runway 07 is straight ahead, even if those who are flying are not in agreement, that is a fair solution. I think it would take a new consultation and a meeting to move forward on that side.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic191x.u107	Madam President, Minister, we have very recently learned that as of July 1st, the SNCB will close no fewer than 33 outlets or outlets that are considered to be under-stretched, in order to optimize the network. We can only regret this decision once again. In fact of optimisation, it is once again a matter of reducing the attractiveness of small lines and finally of achieving their pure and simple deletion. You know the mechanism: less attractiveness, fewer passengers, therefore less investment on the lines, trains go less quickly... so even less passengers. And in the end, the supply is reduced very sharply. I know very well that the removal of a line depends on a decision of the government and that the Board of Directors of SNCB cannot decide purely and simply to delete it. Again the question of public service and service to the public arises. We're going to have a differentiated service to the public depending on whether we live in a more or less densely populated area. This case is difficult, I agree. For example, with regard to a point of sale which is of particular concern to me, that of Aywaille, my municipality, the SNCB has claimed percentages of people who come to pick up their ticket there. Nevertheless, for those who come, it is an absolute need. I am thinking of the elderly, who do not necessarily manipulate electronic terminals in an optimal way. Beyond that, I'm talking about a service that goes beyond the simple sale of a transport ticket, namely a customer's accompaniment. In addition, it is a tourist area which welcomes tourists who do not always know the ins and outs of the operation of a railway station in a more rural area. Minister, I would like you to be able, through your response, to confirm or reverse the decision of the board of directors. Are you avalating this one? Do you not think that certain outlets should be preserved for the reasons I have just raised? I would have liked you to be able to explain to us a motivation other than a purely budgetary one. Should I remind you that service to the public is something important. It must be the same for all, also on less frequented lines.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic191x.u108	Madam Minister, Mr Jiroflée can no longer be present at the moment. However, our questions go in the same direction as those of Mr Matz. We have heard that there are closing points. There is a philosophy behind this, for which I have already warned my fellow Members of the majority in this committee. It is said that there will be no savings in the provision of services. Ladies and gentlemen, there is indeed a saving in services here. I give an example of people who need information about their subscription formula, such as students who have doubts about buying a ten-way ticket from home to school. Especially in the case of co-parenting, a full subscription may not be profitable. Well, that information cannot be requested in the morning, because then there are long queues and in the afternoon or evening the window is already closed. At a time when you will be standing here again in a few weeks or months, as has already happened in the budget negotiations, where you will come out to defend EUR 2.1 billion of savings, do not argue that the traveller will not feel it and that there will be no reduction in the service provided to the traveller. What you see here is already a preliminaries to what we fear, especially what this government has decided. On the one hand, the working man is no longer important, because vending machines are available everywhere, and, on the other hand, a traveller is becoming increasingly a burden. The government is also considering how to prepare for liberalisation. I think that's the underlying reason for this story. The government simply tells the citizen that he or she is not interested and that he or she has become a burden. Once I have outlined the underlying idea, I shall come back to my specific question on the points of contact. Is the published list of 33 counters a final list or are there any closures? What is the budgetary impact? What is the estimated impact for passengers and staff? Based on what criteria were these stations chosen? To what extent are the municipalities concerned consulted as stakeholders? When the new hourly schedule was introduced, road shows were held, but now the municipalities are being caught cold again.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic191x.u109	Madam President, Minister, I will confine myself to my questions, because the problem has been adequately outlined. My first question is an important one. What is your response to the way those closures were announced? We have already discussed communication in response to the question about bicycle points. On a certain Thursday, two weeks ago, everyone, including the cities and municipalities concerned, heard by means of a Belga message that the station counter in their municipality would be closed. Madam Minister, do you think that this method is a way of showing respect for the partners, since the municipalities and cities are partners of SNCB and the inhabitants? How do you respond to that? I am very disturbed by this procedure; I do not think that is the way to do it. Allow me to make a comparison with the closure of a large number of post offices a few years ago. That too was a difficult operation. Well, prior contact was made with the municipalities concerned. Madam Minister, you yourself are mayor, although you are not currently active in that position, but you know how sensitive that is at local level. That is why I ask you whether you think this method is normal and whether you, as a minister, can change anything about it. It should be pointed out that this method is not a good way of dealing with cities and municipalities, because, on the other hand, SNCB often needs the cities and municipalities. That is my first important question. Secondly, on the basis of what criteria was the decision to close? Why do you have to use the counters? Thirdly, one of the arguments for closure is that customers are increasingly buying their train tickets from the vending machines and via online sales channels. Are there any figures on that evolution? I would accept that, but can you give us figures on the larger online sales and the reduced sales at the counters? Fourthly, I'm looking at my province, West Flanders. Is there another possibility for Poperinge, Wervik and Koksijde counters to close, on certain days to remain open half days or during certain hours? If so, what are the criteria for this? Fifthly, does closing the counters mean that the waiting area will also disappear and passengers will have to wait outside for the train? Or is it caught so that you can wait for the train somewhere dry? Sixth, is it correct that the buildings of Wervik and Poperinge are owned by SNCB? When will the talks start in connection with the further exploitation, possibly the sale of these buildings? The station building of Koksijde is owned by the municipality of Koksijde. That municipality completely renovated the building in 2011 and turned it into a modern station, with a catering shop for travellers. That window would therefore also be closed. What strategy will be used in the negotiations with Koksijde? In the meantime, in the affected municipalities there is a search for ways of providing the threatened services to the inhabitants. The possibilities may be to outsource the sale in part or for certain services. Some municipalities, including mine, say that they might be able to keep the window open at certain hours. Is that even possible? I come to my final question. As far as the Poperinge terminal is concerned, can you guarantee that closing a number of counters on that line does not mean that the Poperinge-Kortrijk line could be threatened in the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic191x.u110	Madam President, Madam Minister, my question follows the SNCB's announcement to reorganise thirty-three stations in Belgium, in particular by replacing traditional counters with ATMs. I will not go back to the reasons that guided SNCB in its decision or the manner in which it was announced. The main question is whether train stops will be kept at the stations concerned. You will reassure us on this point. On the other hand, I would like to go back to SNCB's intentions regarding the future of these stations. With a view to the installation of ATMs, it is essential that these places do not become cankers, abandoned places but that they become new poles of multifunctional attractiveness. How does SNCB intend to involve and involve local forces in the conversion of these stations and to ensure that they contribute to the social and economic development of the territory of the municipalities concerned?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic191x.u111	Madam President, Madam Minister, in the wake of the questions asked by my colleagues, I, in turn, would like to come back to you on the issue of the closure of windows, and in particular, being elected from the province of Namur, from the five windows targeted in this province. Madam Minister, you will not have escaped that employees and users of the stations concerned have had difficulty understanding the decision of SNCB. A number of testimonies were passed on in the press to point out that the automatons that are advertised very often pose technical problems and therefore do not offer the same service as the employees present on the spot. According to SNCB, the aim of these closures is to optimize the sales network, but this is mainly likely to reduce the attractiveness of small lines. However, it is known that after the loss of attractiveness there is often a pure and simple deletion of the lines concerned. In any case, whatever the future, this decision is another hard blow for mobility in rural or semi-rural areas. I think I can say that all Members of Parliament from the province of Namur share this deep concern. Minister, I would like to understand the decision-making process. Have you been informed prior to the decision or have you, too, been brought before the fait accompli like most of the interested parties? Whatever the answer, do you approve, as the appropriate minister, of this decision to close windows? What savings are expected? I guess SNCB did an evaluation of it. Finally, are other windows threatened with closure in the years to come? It is known that the windows that have just been removed are part of a long series of deletions. In addition, in recent years, unfortunately, such decisions had already been taken.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic191x.u112	Madam President, Minister, SNCB has announced its willingness to implement new strategies for the sale of transportation tickets. The company wants to use the increased use of alternative sales channels for its users. Based on the finding that more and more passengers are using the automation machines, the SNCB website or the mobile app to purchase their ticket, SNCB plans to close windows at thirty-three stations from July 2015. It plans to reorganize the assignment of its staff accordingly. In addition, twenty-five other stations will see the opening hours of their windows changed. In other words, SNCB will reduce the opening hours of its windows. SNCB states that these measures will allow it to optimize its sales services. Minister, can you tell me at which stations these thirty-three windows will be closed? What is the planned schedule for these closures? SNCB refers to the reassignment of the personnel concerned where it deems it necessary. What exactly does she mean by that? What are the 25 stations that will experience a reduction in the opening hours of their windows? To what extent will these reductions take place? Is there a communication for travellers to announce these changes? If so, which one? Finally, how can SNCB talk about the optimisation of sales services when customers will now be dealing with machines rather than with personnel trained in user services? How does SNCB intend to offer better service with fewer staff at railway stations and reduced opening times for windows?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic191x.u113	Madam Minister, my fellow Members have already outlined the problem. I shall confine myself to my questions on the closure of the counters. How has it been decided which counters will be closed? A list of 33 stations has been published in the press. What steps will SNCB take between the announcement and the effective closure of the points of contact? Some closures are planned as of 1 July. We're only a few weeks away from that. What is the overall budgetary advantage of this operation? Why are we planning to close many windows before the summer holidays? I believe that, just during the summer months, more people use the ticket office, such as day travellers, as opposed to commuters in other periods. Why was it just chosen to carry out the closure before the holiday? What alternatives does SNCB envisage for its station buildings?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic191x.u114	Madam President, Minister, I join colleagues who have already spoken. Like Mr.Dispa, I am also concerned about the trend of closing these windows and its consequences. In the list of stations mentioned in the press, I am struck by the fact that these are stations in medium-sized cities. They are no longer small stations in small villages! The question is where the process will end. How is public service provided? We are told that we are optimising but, in reality, automatons replace human contact. Public service is dehumanized, service is of lower quality and customers are or will be delivered to themselves. This is not in line with the attractiveness of rail, of course. That's the opposite! In alternative measures, how will the disadvantages of these closures be managed by SNCB? We're going to sell the tickets, but will these devices sell subscriptions, Go Pass and Rail Pass, or will the passengers have to go to the nearest stations? If I take line 132, in my area, from Couvin, you'll have to go to Charleroi to get a subscription. What services will these machines provide? I assume that neither the Regions nor the municipalities have been agreed and that everyone has learned it from the press. It's usually the way it happens. How will passenger information be ensured? What is the closing schedule for these thirty-three windows? Will there be any more waves of closures? We're gonna end up with empty rooms in the train stations. What will be the policy for the conversion of these buildings? Until now, the waiting rooms have been maintained, but what will happen in the future? Will these premises be secured and monitored? How can degradation in these buildings be avoided? Cities and municipalities could have a role to play but in a dialogue with SNCB. Is this dialogue envisaged? Like other colleagues, I fear that the closure of these windows will lead to a vicious circle. There will be less attractiveness, which means less audience and less service. Finally, it would be possible to close other medium-sized stations on the network. This is the fear of many travellers. It is the whole question of the public service offered by SNCB that arises here!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic191x.u115	Madam Minister, most of the elements have been addressed in the many questions put by my fellow Members. Thursday 28 May was certainly a turbulent day for SNCB. The audits were then proposed and Mr Cornu also proposed the benchmark study. A little later, SNCB's press release also said that 33 stations would be closed. My question is in line with that of my fellow Members. What criteria were used to determine which points of contact are closed? Does it also mean that the waiting areas in those stations will no longer be accessible? I expressly agree with Mr Lahaye-Battheu on the involvement of the municipal authorities and the mayors. I do not believe that the way of communicating to the mayors concerned can be repeated. On the contrary, I believe that there is an urgent need for dialogue with them, as Mr Lahaye-Battheu said. They are, after all, partners in SNCB's offer. Most questions have already been asked about the alternative of the vending machines. More generally, I would like to repeat a statement that I mentioned earlier when it was about the bicycle points. You're doing another preliminaries on the future of SNCB. What vision do we have on SNCB? The main lines should be set out in the modernisation plan. Taking certain steps already, is actually the wrong order. So far, my questions are in line with those of my fellow Members.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic191x.u116	I can confirm that, together with SNCB and Infrabel, I am doing everything in my power to increase the modernisation of both companies and to improve the quality of service to customers. I confirm once again that there is no closure of the national lines. The decisions cited were taken by the Board of Directors of SNCB. Most political parties, including yours, are represented. This is a decision of an autonomous public authority which finds that customers are increasingly using alternative purchasing options instead of the ticket counters to buy their tickets, such as the vending machines, the SNCB internet site and the mobile application. Moreover, the new sales methods can be used by all customers, regardless of whether they live in the city or in the countryside. With the decision, SNCB's Board of Directors intends to respond to customers' habits by implementing new strategies for the sale of transport tickets. As a reminder, according to SNCB, the share of automatons in different sales channels has quadrupled in less than two years to 35%. During the same period, the share of sales outlets decreased from 72 per cent to 57 per cent. As part of this strategy, the SNCB Board of Directors has decided to phase out 33 little-visited windows from 1 July 2015. More specifically, according to information provided by SNCB, these are 23 windows which will be closed gradually in 2015 and from July onwards. Ten more outlets will be closed later, once the personnel have been transferred. In addition, the opening hours of the windows of 25 less frequented stations will be reduced, usually in the afternoon or/and during the weekend. According to the Board of Directors of SNCB, there is always a question of stations where the time of inactivity at the counter, which can be up to 90%, is high, given the number of transactions. Staff will be able to work at other stations to enhance customer information. As you have indicated, it is obvious that all customers will need access to an automaton. To this end, SNCB points out that, since mid-2013, it has been investing continuously in the installation of new automatons and, today, 532 SNCB stops out of a total of 555 are already equipped with at least one distributor. Of course, SNCB must also continue to modernize its other sales channels, such as its website and mobile app, which are increasingly used by customers of all ages. With a view to closing points, SNCB's CEO has signed up to all the mayors involved in order to examine together the future destination of the unused station buildings. Finally, I have also learned that SNCB's board of directors has also considered the possibility of reopening sales outlets in Zaventem and Schaarbeek. I agree with you, Mrs. Lahaye. There is a real communication problem between SNCB, its customers and local authorities. It is not normal for this information to fall suddenly. Information to the representatives of the communes concerned should have been prior to this press release. I also believe that a distinction must be made between the supply of services that is maintained and the activity in the station. What is important is the rail offer and the service offered to customers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic191x.u117	Minister, thank you for these answers. However, we are not learning anything new. You seem to describe an entity, different from you, agree, but on which you have no take, no request to make, no adjustment to make. You report on the decisions taken by the board of directors which have been communicated through the press and communicated to the communes by a number of letters sent to the mayors who, for their part, have transmitted to their communal councils. We continue to regret this decision about which you seem to agree. In any case, I suppose so because who says no word, consents. In any case, you do not object, you do not ask SNCB for further analysis of the thirty-three windows involved. Even if you say there'll be ATMs everywhere, I'm saying that's not the case. Moreover, it is known that the service will not be the same because the elderly, for example, do not manipulate these automatons in the same way as a young public very run on the internet. I continue to deeply regret this decision. It is clear that it does not directly influence rail services. It's not a line closure, but you know how it happens every time! The same scenario inevitably reproduces! A gradual reduction in service to the public results in fewer passengers, which causes SNCB to question the appropriateness of the proposed transport offer on this line. It is every time the same reasoning is applied! And this decision is still in line with that! Decreasing the supply on the lines most vulnerable by their geographical location. We are, of course, opposed to this relatively brutal decision and have tabled a motion for recommendation at the end of the inquiry to request that the government review this decision or, in any event, issue injunctions to the board of directors to review its decision.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic191x.u118	Madam President, I will be very concise. Minister, thank you for your answers, but they call for new questions. First of all, what is your role in this public enterprise? You're telling us what we learned from the newspapers. Beyond this, what about the stations concerned? What are they? We still don't know. What will happen and when? The deadlines are quite long. Then, don't we take the problem backwards? Our concern is that the closure of these stations is not the prelude to the closure of these stations. Will the current disinvestment not legitimize decisions to close stations and secondary lines tomorrow? In the end, the fundamental question – which I will ask you later – is whether you are not preparing today for the dismantling of tomorrow.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic191x.u119	Madam Secretary, in all my friendship when I say that, it is not like Bart De Wever against Pieter De Crem, I think you are getting rid of it a little too easily with your answer. You say there is no impact on the closure of rural lines. However, when I read the list of stations quoted, I fear that there will be some sort of self-filling prophecy, with services in rural areas declining. Either the counters are closed for half a day or they are closed for the whole day and a whole period. With the best will in the world, a vending machine has never answered the question whether one should buy a subscription or a ten-ride ticket for a student. By systematically adopting such measures, you are creating an impact, and that is also the intention of the government. After all, the government wants to stop the growth previously observed in passenger traffic between 2001 and 2010 by a growth rate of 53% and the forecast was 2 % per year according to the Planning Bureau. The measures are in this direction. With your answer, you actually opened the umbrella. You say it's a decision of the board of directors. Is the Governing Council therefore responsible for the savings of EUR 2.1 billion for the two companies, as it will then have to implement the government measures? The fact that the government today decides to save EUR 188 million in the 2015 financial year is not the responsibility of the Governing Board, but of the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic191x.u120	Madam Minister, thank you in turn for the answer. First, I'll go into the way the decision was communicated. You share our indignation. I fully understand that. You know the local sensitivities very well. I would therefore ask you to give a clear signal that there will have to be a change, that SNCB must respect local authorities and not act in such a way anymore. Secondly, there are the criteria. Why exactly did the listed 33 counters have to close? You have mentioned a number of figures, but rather general. I know that transparency is important to you, and I would ask you to provide us with the figures by point of contact. If not, I'll put in a follow-up question. You say that there was up to 90% inactivity for certain counters. I fully agree with the argument that such inactivity is unacceptable, but Parliament has the right to be more transparent about the criteria used to close those 33 points. One final point concerns the outsourcing of sales. Is that a thought trail? I have been told that the sale is actually laid down by law and that only SNCB can sell the products. Is it possible to follow the example of bpost, which works with postal points for the self-employed, in order to retain part of the services we all carry in our hearts?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic191x.u121	Madam Minister, from your answer, I have four things to say. First, there is no planned station closure. This is essential for maintaining rail capacity on these rural lines. Secondly, staff will not be assigned. Thirdly, the obligation of access to high-performance automatons and new means of communication must be improved and guaranteed. Finally, the board of directors and management must improve communication with local authorities. Madam Minister, I am confident that you will make every effort and effort to avoid unfortunate scenarios of wasteland and abandoned stations and that you will make it easier to convert these places, whether they are winning conversions. These areas of the station are vital and cannot be limited to simple real estate sales operations that do not take into account the primary role of these stations in the social and economic development of the territory.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic191x.u122	Madam President, our colleague, Mr Foret, is satisfied with four points which he has just highlighted. I'd say he's happy soon. For my part, I do not want to be derogatory, not being a permanent member of the committee. However, I asked four questions which I did not get any answers to. I asked for a numerical answer on the economy expected by SNCB. No figures were given to me. Similarly, I asked three other questions that could be answered by yes or no, but I had neither. Minister, I feel a little embarrassed at the corners. I can understand that. You are sheltering behind the company's board of directors, pointing out that all parties are represented. It's a little easy. The directors of the company are there first to defend not the interests of their party but the interests of the company. And as part of their budget allocation, they are likely to have to make decisions that do not necessarily meet the interests of the public. Now, your role is there. It is to balance the short-term interests of society with the interests of the public to which a service is to be rendered. I think you don't play that role or so evanescently that you can honestly continue to worry. I am not reassured about the fate that will be done to the buildings that will be somehow deserted. Similarly, I am not reassured that the SNCB and its responsible minister will in future focus on maintaining a quality and sufficient service, particularly in rural areas, which are known to be most at risk.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic191x.u123	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. I agree with Mr Foret. You have made it clear that the disappearance of the point of contact does not mean that rail activity in the rural areas concerned will disappear as well. For us, the most important thing is that the stops remain and that there is an offer of public transport. The disappearance of the point of contact does not mean that a station building... some station buildings are quite picturesque... cannot fulfil any other function in the local community. There are examples of this, an art center in Lissewege, a youth house in Sint-Genesius-Rode and catering shops. For us, however, the condition is that the traveller has a customer-friendly alternative to buying a ticket. After the fuss over the 7 euro supplement, it must be clear that the traveller will certainly not suffer. You admitted that communication could be improved. I certainly agree with that. Twitter also caused a riot throughout the discussion. I would like to quote a tweet: "They are going to ask sp.a and Green to replace the vending machines with an official who presses fresh fruit juice." That quote is indicative of the discussion here.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic191x.u124	Minister, like many colleagues, I thought I'd learn a little more than the press reported. However, I have not heard any specific answers to some of the questions that have been asked. Some colleagues wonder what your role is with respect to SNCB and its decisions. I feel like you're the closet notary. We're going to have, it seems, high-performance automatons. Will they sell Go Passes, Rail Passes, subscriptions, or will it take fifty or sixty kilometres to buy them? As far as the premises are concerned, I am also very concerned. I did not see a draft approach to consulting with cities and municipalities in order to find a solution. I have not heard the beginning of an answer on this subject. In the medium to long term, an empty building poses enormous difficulties. This issue will also need to be addressed. Several substantive comments were made on the service as such. The digital divide exists. Many people will have difficulties with these devices. The quality and attractiveness of rail are therefore at the heart of the problem. Concerns about the future of the stations are also not resolved. So we're really on the wrong track. That was my conclusion, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic191x.u125	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. The reference to the board of directors bothers me a little bit. I agree with what Mr Dispa said. The people on the board of directors have a different task than the people here in Parliament, who want to set out the lines for the future of our public transport. I'm glad you support that this wasn't the most appropriate way to deal with the local authorities. We are counting on this to improve in the future. I think that the inactivity of the people behind the window is rightly evaluated. The condition is that there are good alternatives. Vending machines must be able to generate a sufficient supply. There is also a need to think carefully about the EUR 8 supplement for people leaving a train station where there is no point of contact. I know that this is a trial period and an evaluation will follow. We look forward to evaluating the 8 euro surcharge, because we wonder if this is a customer-friendly solution. The completion of the buildings is a very important challenge. There are a lot of empty stations today. There's gonna be a whole series of them. This is an important challenge for which a clear vision needs to be developed by SNCB. Perhaps this aspect could be included in the modernisation plan. The closure of points of contact is not something of this legislature. In the previous legislature a lot of windows were closed, among other things in my own municipality. I find the way in which the Socialists comment here on the closure of points of contact rather easy, while in the previous legislature a lot of points of contact were closed. I even remember a press release from a fellow Member who said that if we do not want to touch the service and we still need to save money, closing windows was one of the possible options. I find the comments in this sense a little too easy at a time when we need to look at the effectiveness of everything.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic191x.u126	Madam President, I will be very brief because I mention this problem in my next inquiry. I share what my colleagues have said. [[I heard the minister's answers.]] I believe I would like to add something that has not been discussed. This is the application of the new "on-board rate" system. I hope that at least minimorum, whatever decision is taken which, I hope, will reverse the previous decision of the Board of Directors, we will be able to immunize those affected by these windows removed from the system of application of the tariff on board, in any case during a transitional period. Minister, it seems to me essential that you relay this element. For the rest, I signed the motion tabled by Mrs Matz.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic191x.u127	Madam President, I would like to repeat what I said earlier about the very bad communication from SNCB. I will ask SNCB to provide me with the rate of inactivity for each window concerned. This will provide you with transparent information. I will pass it on to the various colleagues who have asked a question on the subject. Alternatives must be proposed before these closures are definitive. I would also point out that a distinction must be made between the supply at the railway station and the supply at the railway station. It's fundamental. Mr Dispa, I am not embarrassed but angry at the way this was handled. This is why the CEO of SNCB has contacted each mayor to see how alternatives and formulas can be found to allow the continuation of quality service to all customers. I would like to add to some of the comments made today. It's an operation. This decision was made by the Board of Directors. Personally, I am not embarrassed and I speak modestly and transparently since my party voted for this decision. But the administrators who represent other parties voted for it too!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic191x.u128	In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. A motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms Vanessa Matz and MM. David Geerts, Laurent Devin, Benoît Dispa, Jean-Marc Delizée and Marcel Cheron are worded as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Mrs Vanessa Matz and the response of the Minister of Mobility, responsible for Belgocontrol and the National Society of Belgian Railways, Asks the government not to follow SNCB's desire to remove the windows at 33 low-speed stations. This will is justified by several elements: - the maintenance of human contact between rail users and SNCB members. A design of functions and schedules should be considered in order to better meet the needs of users; - the difficulties in using vending machines encountered by older people who are not used to this type of device; - the non-presence of vending machines at all stations in the country does not allow users to buy their ticket in order to board the train, while knowing that for a few months, an additional amount of 7 euros is due for any passenger who buys his ticket on the train. Therefore, the House of Representatives asks the government not to allow SNCB to remove sales outlets in the SNCB network, in order to continue to provide quality service to all rail users while preserving rural transportation. The removal of less frequented windows with a view to ‘optimising sales networks' is once again a preference for mass transport from large cities to large cities. Rural transport will be disadvantaged, as the supply will be reduced." A motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mrs Vanessa Matz and Mr David Geerts, Mr Laurent Devin, Mr Benoît Dispa, Mr Jean-Marc Delizée and Mr Marcel Cheron as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mrs Vanessa Matz and the reply of the Minister for Mobility, responsible for Belgocontrol and the National Society of Belgian Railways, asks the government not to follow SNCB in its intention to close the counters in 33 poorly visited stations. That request was based on the following considerations: - there must continue to be human contact between train users and railway staff. Functions and opening hours should be reviewed in order to better meet the needs of train users; - older people, who are not used to dealing with such devices, face difficulties in using ticket machines; - because not all stations in the country are equipped with ticket machines, passengers cannot buy tickets everywhere before they board the train. And that while all travellers who buy a ticket on the train have been charged an on-board surcharge of 7 euros for several months. The Chamber of Representatives therefore asks the government to prevent SNCB from closing down the manned outlets in its network so that the railway company could continue to provide high-quality services to all train users and the supply of services in rural areas could continue. With the closure of less frequent points of contact with a view to optimising sales networks, priority is given once again to the transport of large numbers of passengers between major cities. Transport in rural areas will be disadvantaged, as supply will be limited." A simple motion was tabled by Ms. Inez De Coninck, Ms. Sabien Lahaye-Battheu and Mr. Emmanuel Burton, Gilles Foret et Jef Van den Bergh. A simple motion was tabled by Inez De Coninck and Sabien Lahaye-Battheu and by Mr Emmanuel Burton, Gilles Foret et Jef Van den Bergh. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic191x.u129	Madam Chair, Minister, I will try to summarize my inquiry. You have received it in written form, and I hope that this text has inspired you. I am concerned about the current situation. It does not happen a day without SNCB being at the centre of media attention. Announcements, polemics about punctuality, social conflict, governance, financial performance, subsidiaries, investment deferrals, pricing policy and other modernization plans follow. We just talked about the window saga. For many months, many important files have been released in the press, resulting in a real loss of confidence within the company and on the part of network users. As the backbone of the mobility policy in Belgium, SNCB deserves better. I am an optimist, however, and I would like to point out that media unpacking has at least the advantage of allowing opposition members to have access to information that is usually out of reach. We saw him earlier about the subsidiaries. On the basis of various elements, allow me to question you about this serious crisis that is going through our landscape and our rail system. The starting point of the situation, which will crystallize everything else, is a drastic budget cut at the beginning of this legislature. 2.1 billion has been accumulated in total over five years. It is colossal and painful, when the decision is made out of any objective element. Because internal reports, external audits and other benchmarks only arrive now and at the dropper. Anyway, we cut our leg off at the start and then we're looking for the infection! We learn from the press that reports and audits are being completed. We talked about the subsidiaries earlier, but the follow-up that will be given raises questions that we asked earlier. In parallel with the external audit, an internal study focused on a number of elements and was revealed. We are talking about the low commercial incomes of SNCB, the so-called too high costs, the productivity below the European average. All these elements seem to be consistent in order to facilitate the debate on a change of tariff policy, a reduction of services, the closure of windows and to justify a reduction of staff or even a future privatisation. All this takes place against the background of wage negotiations and the grunts of drivers. In short, the situation is almost explosive. There may be, and I hope, other things to do than to prepare for liberalisation or even privatisation or even worse, which will only lead to higher tariffs and a desertion of the unprofitable parts of the network. SNCB offers an invaluable public service to society and many citizens who would otherwise not be able to travel, especially in rural areas. Seeking to optimize operating costs is common sense, but provided that all matters relating to direct service to travellers are immune. Trying at all costs to balance the balance by applying a general increase in tariffs will not raise the SNCB, but instead risks diverting passengers from public transport and will, moreover, pay part of the addition to enterprises via employer intervention. In short, there are alternative proposals. This is not the place to develop them. All this shows, in any case, that another policy and another governance model for SNCB is possible and will have an impact on the whole society through another mobility. In other words, rail deserves a reinvestment. The strategic interest of rail transport makes a policy designed in the long term, far from a "done on the handlebars" vision, if you will allow me this metaphor. Minister, it has been with great interest that I have heard from you several times since February about a plan to modernize the SNCB. What you call "wretchedness" is rather a disappointment. Indeed, what you have been announcing for months has, each time, been postponed. So I wanted to question you about the modernization plan you promised us. I hope that you will be able to clarify the timetable and the content of this plan, which has been so announced.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic191x.u130	Madam President, Mr Cheron, I would like to share with you my personal feelings after more than seven months of serving as Minister. This function allowed me to get a thorough look at the SNCB and Infrabel files. From the outset, I would like to make a voluntary distinction. Two public companies that both operate in the rail world but with different challenges and operating realities. This must be recognized because it is one of the points that justify my thinking and thinking in defining the strategic vision. One cannot be dissociated from the other and yet their DNA remains different. I could even talk about different corporate cultures. However, one can only envisage a single railway policy in Belgium to which the two public companies must join and work together, and not in parallel, as is still too often the case. In addition to this, there are many challenges, challenges and challenges. You highlight an important part of it and I don't want to hide it. They're not new elsewhere. That is why, shortly after I took office, I realized that only an ambitious vision could bring this positive breath that will give the impetus and the means necessary to meet the challenges of the Belgian railways tomorrow. This vision, I work on it and I try to integrate all the dimensions and I can say that before the summer, I will be able to propose the themes on which I will continue to work with Jo cornu and Luc Lallemand to define their business plan, integrating this new strategic vision. This strategic vision is all the more necessary since it does not happen one day without the news catching up on one or the other subject related to SNCB or Infrabel. This is part of the problems encountered but not the only and perhaps not the most fundamental ones. Let's be aware of that! On this point, I think we share the same point. However, we must regain the serenity in these matters and not fear of taking on our responsibilities, and I will do so knowingly. I will end by telling you that I really believe in a positive future for this society, if there is a radical change in mentality!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic191x.u131	Minister, I take note of what you yourself call a "personal vision". On the record, we probably have some elements that make us converge on the challenges ahead. However, in concrete terms, I can only note the new appointment set before the summer. I hope this summer will be beautiful. But this modernization plan is now announced to us before the summer. I noticed that "you were working on it" and I added a few points of suspension. Therefore, Madam President, I will only be able to come back to you to follow up on this great statement. I would also like to point out that I have tabled a motion of recommendation to assist the minister and the majority. I invite the majority still present to co-sign this motion for a recommendation. Mr Foret, Mr Van den Bergh, ladies and gentlemen of the Walloon Brabant, that would be the signal that there is indeed a common will. Minister, in this motion for a recommendation, I ask for something revolutionary. I ask the government to speed up the drafting of the SNCB modernization plan so that it can be presented at the latest before the parliamentary holidays. It seems to me that there is a coincidence between saying "before the parliamentary holidays" and "the beginning of the summer". In my opinion, this is consistent and we will be able to find a compromise. Secondly, without waiting for the modernisation plan, I call for strong action to be taken against the persons involved in the Ernst & Young audit and, if necessary, for legal proceedings to be instituted for the suspected criminal acts. And finally, to take the necessary measures that will allow SNCB to stop cutting in budgets that have an impact on the service offered and to put the quality of this service (punctuality, reliability, accessibility) back at the centre of railway policy. That, Madam Chair, is the motion for recommendation that I table.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic191x.u132	In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. A motion of recommendation was tabled by Messrs. Marcel Cheron and Stefaan Van Hecke and read as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Mr Marcel Cheron and the response of the Minister of Mobility, responsible for Belgocontrol and the National Society of Belgian Railways, Asks the government: - to speed up the drafting of the SNCB modernisation plan in order to present it at the latest before the parliamentary holidays; - without waiting for the modernisation plan, to take strong measures towards the persons implicated in the audit of Ernst & Young and, where appropriate, to institute judicial proceedings for the suspected criminal acts; - to take the necessary measures which will enable SNCB to stop cutting in budgets which have an impact on the service offered and to put the quality of this service (punctuality, reliability, accessibility) back at the centre of railway policy." A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr Marcel Cheron and Mr Stefaan Van hecke and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mr Marcel Cheron and the reply of the Minister for Mobility, responsible for Belgocontrol and the National Society of Belgian Railways, asks the government: - to speed up the preparation of SNCB's modernisation plan so that it could be proposed at the latest before the parliamentary recess; - without waiting for the modernisation plan to act decisively against the persons who have come into dispute as a result of Ernst & Young's audit and, where appropriate, to initiate legal proceedings for the suspected offences; - take the necessary measures to ensure that SNCB no longer has to cut back on the budgets which have an impact on the service and the quality of such services (stippiness, reliability, accessibility) could once again make rail policy a cornerstone." A simple motion was tabled by Ms Sabien Lahaye-Battheu and by Messrs. Emmanuel Burton, Gilles Foret et Jef Van den Bergh. A simple motion was tabled by Mrs Sabien Lahaye-Battheu and Mr Emmanuel Burton, Gilles Foret et Jef Van den Bergh. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over.
