ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e8038	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen! I'll open the meeting. The Official Protocol of 139. Meeting of 14. In December 2011, the European Parliament's Directorate remained unanswered and undisputed. Deputies Lueger, Mag. Brunner, Dr. Wittmann and Dr. Glawischnig-Piesczek. I announce that the ORF will transfer the current hour and the current European hour from 9.05 a.m. to around 11.30 a.m., until its end, to ORF 2 live. Furthermore, ORF III will transfer the session live and in full length. [[09:06:11]] Current hour
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e8075	We arrive at the current hour with the theme: “Faith paid – no new taxes!” Mr Klubobmann Bucher was the first speaker to speak. Speech time: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e8102	Madam President. A nice good morning, ladies and gentlemen, in the new year, in 2012, a year that did not start as exemplary as we would all wish, one year, which at the beginning, with a very unpleasant message, might have surprised the other less surprised. We were not quite surprised at the assessment by the credit rating agencies of Austria's financial budget. There were those who had destroyed this fact for many months and pushed it to the side and simply did not want to take note that they were making a wrong policy, making a missing policy and that this missing policy is also observed and is to the detriment of our economic location Austria. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Until Christmas, ladies and gentlemen, there were government assessments that did not match reality. If you've been tracking media coverage, you'll be able to understand that. ==References====External links== Ms Fekter, Minister for Finance, said: “No reason to fear!” And Fekter, on the other hand. I also firmly believe that our Triple A is not in danger, because we know our fundamental data well and because they are good. – This has been the assessment of our Mrs Finanzminister just a few weeks ago. ==References====External links== Last November, he said he assured that the highest rating of Triple A would be held. That, ladies and gentlemen, was the assessment of the Federal Government. Now, after a few days, one can only say that this is a collective failure and a collective misevaluation of this federal government, which no longer has the threads in its hands and does not know what to do to get that country out of this crisis. [[OBJECTIVES]] They have lost confidence from the Federal Government, including the trust of investors who have had great confidence in our country and the economic location of Austria in recent years and decades. It is paradoxical, ladies and gentlemen, to blame the opposition for this state of opposition, to say that we are now at fault because we did not agree to the debt brake. [[Abg. Head: You got something wrong!]] Yes, Mrs. Finanzminister, you didn't even ask us when you threw the money out the window when you created your budgets and we always predicted that the bill will be paid sometime. [[OBJECTIVES]] You didn't ask us, because you didn't take us seriously, You always erased our proposals that we have made and said that the budget will keep, the budget you have presented here by Red and Black will be implemented in 2012. And today you come to see that you need to improve that this budget cannot keep because you know of course that you need to make savings. I would have expected, after such a message, after such an destructive assessment of the work of our Federal Government, that the Federal Chancellor and Mr. Vice-Chancellor would make a declaration of government here. – Yes, ladies and gentlemen, what still has to happen to one-offs in the Second Republic, that this Federal Government finally explains to us what it is up to and what prospects it is developing to bring Austria out of this dilemma?- Oh, my God! No one understands that we need to do a current hour on this urgent issue, which affects all of Austria and primarily taxpayers, because you do not find it worth the effort to explain to us what you are finally planning. You have made an blatant misevaluation on a number of points, and I am now speaking only of the last two months. I have already mentioned the budget, as you will need to improve it, that will not last, although you have just made this decision here a few weeks ago. The demand for a debt brake has negated you many, many months, that you have ruined. We requested the introduction of a debt brake two and a half years ago, but you didn't care – and at the end of the day you couldn't go fast enough. How many times have I had to be told by you that we do not need a debt brake in Austria, because we have such a great budget system to envy us all over the world?! – Those were your words, Mrs. Finanzminister. And now the loss of our highest credit quality! This was also said by you again and again: The Triple A is not in danger. And now we are facing reality and you have no confidence in your work anymore. It is not true that Austria's economic location has been downgraded, no, your government policy has been downgraded, Mrs Finanzminister! Your government policy will no longer be trusted by investors and credit rating agencies. [[In the case of the BZÖ, and the members of the FPÖ.]] All of this is the result of five years of red and black government. In this government constellation in the last five years, since 2006, they have managed to increase the overall debt ratio from 59 percent to 80 percent. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: That's wrong! - Oh, my God!]] This is a record debt, ladies and gentlemen. You are a record debtor, Mrs. Finanzminister of the ÖVP! [[In the case of the BZÖ, and the members of the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: I don't know!]] This red and black federal government is poison for Austria! It is expensive for the people, ladies and gentlemen, and it is above all, and that is the worst, a burden for the next generations, who have to earn all the money that you are now throwing out with your unrestrained debt policy that you are carrying out. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] That is why we call on this federal government to finally come to its senses that it is not possible to think about what new taxes you are introducing and what taxes you can raise; there is a real competition in progress. We want to have a competition on which reforms are the first to be made, which reforms we are the first to implement, reforms in the field of health, education, funding, federalism and pensions. There are over 599 proposals from the Court of Auditors which we have to follow. It is not true that there are no proposals, there are also requests from the opposition parties, ladies and gentlemen, who are worthy of taking up. Finally, do the right thing! First, think about how you want to reform the country – and: Hands away from the wallet of taxpayers, ladies and gentlemen of red and black! [[In the case of the BZÖ, and the members of the FPÖ.]] Finally, take to heart this desire for reform, which is being lived in other countries, for example in Switzerland! Switzerland today stands like no other European country. Switzerland has had a debt ratio of 40 percent and has reduced this forty percent debt ratio to 20 percent. These are dream values. From 40 to 20 percent, Switzerland has managed to do so without increasing taxes. Switzerland did this without new taxes. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] Switzerland has a tax and tax rate of 29 percent – compared to Austria: one of 44 percent. Austria is a “high tax park”, a high tax country, and this, ladies and gentlemen, is damaging the competitive location of Austria, which also harms the jobs and the further development of our country. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Every tax increase you make, ladies and gentlemen, even you from the left group, does not hit the rich! Don't be so naïve! Every tax increase hits the middle class! The middle class, these are 1.9 million Austrians, the real taxpayers who need to finance this complex system that you have created, this system of collective redistribution. And we will represent this middle class as the lawyer of taxpayers. You can take poison on it, ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ and ÖVP! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] What Austria now needs is a reform partnership. We're ready to do that. In very, very many areas we give you our support. We will give you a blank check on these reform measures, which the Court of Auditors have repeatedly proposed, whether this concerns the reduction of political bodies, whether this is a fair tax system, which you have been discussing for months now, whether this is a fair, patient-oriented health system. One point I would also like to raise: Make sure you regain investor confidence in our government bonds! Apply They are the Austrian government bonds as a price-proof paper with interest to which you can rely, ladies and gentlemen. Investor patriotism, I expect it now from a federal government. And, my dear ones. Ladies and gentlemen: Stop this shock, and take your fingers away from taxes and tax increases!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e8233	For a preliminary opinion, Mrs. Federal Minister Dr. Fekter in word. The speaking time should not exceed 10 minutes. - Please, Mrs. Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e8255	Madam President. High house! Dear Seers! If you spend more money than you take taxes, you have to borrow the money somewhere. [[Abg. Kickl: Who is “man”?]] – “Man” is in this case – Madam President, please make sure that I can give my speech. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You know each other! You are an expert: spend more than take!]] [[Subsequent calls at BZÖ and FPÖ.]]
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e8300	Just a little more quiet, ladies and gentlemen! The Federal Minister is speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e8316	If you spend more than you take, you have to borrow the money from somewhere. [[Abg. Dr. Strutz: spend less!]] [[Further calls at BZÖ and FPÖ.]] The private households generally deposit this from the banks in the form of loans. States borrow the money via government bonds on the capital market. Until two years ago, it was not difficult for states to win money over government bonds: State bonds were issued, and they were bought up by banks, insurance companies, pension funds, but also by private individuals who have saved in the form of government bonds. And for two years now, we have recognized that a significant loss of trust in government bonds has arisen. It is no longer so easy for some states to borrow money through government bonds. This has had to be noted by Greece, Italy has had to take note of this, but Ireland and Portugal have also had to take note of it. However, the fact that these states can still be financed has been a European effort to help them. For all these states, there is the credit check where it comes out how much interest they have to pay for their sponsored money. And that's what the credit rating agencies have done. Two credit rating agencies have said that Austria has the best score triple A, one of the best debtors overall, and a credit rating agency just meant last week, Austria has a certain risk in terms of its public debt. And what is the reason for this risk? – Not with Austrian economic performance, not with the work of Austrian workers. We have a good, healthy economy, a good current account surplus. We also have growth. We have the highest employment. – This is all in the rating agency’s assessment. But the risk is justified by the fact that we have neighbours who are currently very difficult, namely Hungary and Italy. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: In any doubt the neighbor is always to blame!]] And because our economies, our banks, our export economies are so closely linked to Hungary and Italy, it can of course become a problem if these countries get into even greater difficulties. Therefore, Standard & Poor’s meant that this networking of Austria can pose a certain risk. Then Standard & Poor’s once again looked at the future and meant: As a result, the risk could increase even more if the debt mountain in Austria rose by more than 80 percent. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, that's right. If the debt mountain continues to grow, the interest rate burden may increase the risk. That is why the Federal Government made massive efforts before Christmas not to let the debt mountain grow further. As you know, we have already legislated the debt brake here in the House in December. Regrettably, the opposition parties have only had in mind party-political calculations here. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] They have not been aware of the state mechanism and have not agreed to anchor this debt brake in the Constitution. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Bucher: Now we're to blame!]] However, we are not going to lose our way to consolidation, deficit reduction and debt reduction. [[Abg. Grosz: Just like the last 25 years!]] When inventing new state expenditure, the Republic has been at least as creative in recent decades as inventing new taxes. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, I remember those 24. In September 2008, four days before the election, which was held here in the House – and I do not take out any political groups, nor their own – on an afternoon of over 3 billion. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: With voices of the ÖVP!]] It was four days before the election. Now, of course, it is difficult to reverse these expenditures. Let me also briefly answer the question of how debt has grown. The debt ratio of the federal government has increased from 1970 to 1999 to almost five times, from 12.5 to 59.2 percent. From 2000 to 2007, i.e. during the government of Schüssel, the debt mountain has been reduced and there has been a decrease to 53.8 percent. From 2008 – and I have already mentioned this Parliament’s day – the financial crisis has led to a significant increase in debt to 62.1 percent in the economic crisis. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, I am aware that we are gradually working together to ensure that we can't continue to grow the debt mountain, because it becomes a damocles' heavy, and that's what I want to avoid. It is also unsocial to leave a backpack of debt to the next generations, where they lose any room for design on the basis of the operation of interest rates alone. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Those who support this will send money to the banking sector, not to the people, not to where we should politically divert the money. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to make it clear that we have an expenditure problem, we do not have a revenue problem. Austria has a very high tax rate. All our neighbouring countries have lower tax rates. Not the tax collection is our problem, we take enough taxes, but spending is the problem for us in some areas. That is why we will focus particularly on those areas where we recognize shortcomings where there is inefficiency. As far as expenditure is concerned, for example, we spend a lot of tax money on early pensions. Although we are looking for skilled workers on the labour market, although people are getting older and healthy, we spend a lot of money on early pensions. We have passed laws that make it attractive to go to early retirement. These incentives, ladies and gentlemen, we must eliminate all those who say save expenditure on the side of the road to economic growth, I say: [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Wrong!, because if you pay early pensioners, it's an issue that doesn't make sense nationally. If these professionals were longer in working life, the economy would have some of it, and the taxpayer would save these early pensions. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] This does not dampen the economy, the economic climate. We must save expenditure on the one hand, where we clearly note that growth must not be negatively affected, and jobs must not be at risk. Inflation must not be fuelled. This should not dampen the investment. We from the ÖVP do not want to pack new stones into the backpack to the middle class either. A lot is already being unloaded. The middle class pays most taxes. And we don't want to burden the families. We don't want to shorten the family benefits either. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Therefore, I do not go ahead with the proposal of the Chamber of Workers to take away 100 million of the families. I will not make such a proposal. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We need to put in place where inefficiency is, such as the ÖBB, in the administration. We need to start and stop these in the event of double- and tri-tracks in the promotions. We need to take a cost-damaging path in the health sector. We must stop spending with the countries in terms of better cooperation and, ladies and gentlemen, we must address the future areas of research, innovation, education, science with offensive measures, but not with the spasm. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e8502	I draw attention to the fact that the speaking time of all other participants at the current hour according to § 97a Abs. 6 of the Rules of Procedure shall not exceed 5 minutes. First of all, Mr. Klubobmann, Dr. Cap. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e8527	Madam President. High house! As far as I understand it, the taking up of loans or the issue of bonds is not a bad thing. If you say what you spend, you have to take it, I have to resist it: The meaning of loans and also bonds is that one has more revenue, that one repays it, and that one increases the prosperity of financing social institutions in addition to tax and tax resources. That is why I am in principle opposed to discrediting loans and bonds. - On the one hand. Secondly, I am, yes, we are all, of course, for a slimmer state, and we believe that there should be a reduction of this where there is double-driving or multiple-driving. [[Abg. Bucher: Who prevents?]] This is one of the reasons why you will look at the many fundings at federal, regional and local level and also in other areas. But it's not supposed to make saving an ideology. That's a big difference. Because what we now have is a global but also an Austrian distribution struggle that takes place there. On the one hand, dollar against euro. If I look at the comments made by the credit rating agencies, I often feel that some form is also politically motivated and that we want a strong euro because it is important for the economy, for export, for growth, for employment in global competition. That's undisputed. But there seems to be distribution struggles here, and these distribution struggles also exist in the famous debate: How do we consolidate the budget – on the revenue side, on the expenditure side – and with what criteria of justice does this take place? And we have already noted several times here, the question of social justice is also a productive factor for the economy, and many still refuse to recognize it, because they actually save as an ideological objective: Repressing what the social state is, repressing what is a really very well functioning and just health system, push back in areas where generations have fought for a really efficient and reasonable pension system. I have to say that we Social Democrats are drawing up a line, because we say we are not. We want, if we consolidate, to be socially solidly consolidated. This is a very important point for us. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I have looked at everything very carefully from Standard & Poor’s and also from the World Bank. Today in the text of the teletext it is to be read that they say that it is almost the message of Europe's threatened to break down. That's the message! [[Abg. Head: Mr. Schoolmaster is right!]] That's how they formulate. I do not dare to be caught up in the laugh, because if they put it in such a way that it threatens to do so, and then say that the bank failures that threaten Hungary and Italy are the reason why Austria may have a problem in the future, then I do not read that we are now going to break the Austrian social state and the Austrian pension system, but then I read that we should consider how we can help in the future that there are financial market regulations. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We should help to ensure that there are rules in the banks. We still consider this mixture between the speculative sector of banks and the core business of banks to be critical. That is one of the very essential points. And I have to say quite honestly: Have we not heard for years the reports of the Austrian banks on their successful activity in Eastern Europe, in South-East Europe, over billions of profits? Where are the profits? It seems they still have to be somewhere, otherwise the gratifying statement of these bank managers would not be possible, we will deal with the problem by ourselves. I think it's gratifying if that's so, because there's obviously something left to do. That is why I say that the matter is to be looked at from a different perspective. That is why I am also concerned about the idea that it is not about increasing the tax rate, it is not about any new taxes, it does not say any human being. It is about the fact that there are also social justice on the revenue side and that some of those who have so far fled into any tax havens that have so far used all the tax advantages that have become richer and richer up to now, without having to bend a finger, and which are partly responsible for the economic and financial crisis. And they're supposed to be asked to cash out. That is just, and everything else is unjust. And don't scatter sand into people's eyes and try not to scare the Austrians by saying that now I don't know what new tax, no, no, no, no, no, but we'll discuss exactly where and in which area. Only then can we discuss this honestly. Last sentence: ==References== September 2008 was a big day. We have, among other things, abolished the tuition fees. If I compare what you've spent afterwards with what was spent on that day, then I have to say, it's so small.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e8591	The next item is the speech by Mr Dr. Stummvoll. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e8612	Madam President. Minister! High house! First of all, a word on the statements made by my predecessor. Mr Klubobmann Cap, I am also familiar with social justice, no question at all. However, one must also be so honest as to say one thing: We have one of the highest social budgets in Europe, and yet we have not won the fight against poverty. What does that mean? – Social security is not given, Mr Cap, and we need to talk about it: Is social security to be achieved with more taxes? – I do not believe that social security means that we must review and reform the social system with a view to ensuring safety, which is the crucial point. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But, ladies and gentlemen, on the real issue of today's hour: In contrast to Mr Bucher, if we approach this issue unafraidly, calmly and objectively, we come to the conclusion, I say quite openly, we have to say goodbye, I say to my friends of the Socialist Group, of a political fairy tale that has been told in Austria since the 1970s, that, unlike the private budget, a state can spend more than it takes. If that's the case, I need someone to borrow money from me. But I can't force anyone to borrow my money. That is why in a sense I am handing over to him who is bailing me money. I would like to quote the former Social Democratic Prime Minister of Sweden Persson. Persson once said I had a key experience. From the time I, the Swedish Prime Minister, explained a few smart boys from Wall Street a few years ago, what I have to do to get money, I took a radical change of course. And we often overlook that. We can see it from the example of Greece, please. Basically, the sovereignty of a state threatens to be lost, not just the financial scope for action. And to prevent that is the task we currently have. Ladies and gentlemen, in Austria, I would also like to say that we have excellent opportunities to solve the dependence of “evil” financial markets and “evil” credit rating agencies, namely that we keep the state budgets in order, no question at all. And we have tremendous opportunities because we have savings potential anywhere you look at. I now mention three examples of keeping a little bit of data and facts, and I deliberately do not say ÖBB and consciously not administrative reform, I call you three examples. Pensions: On average, why do our German neighbours go to pension as Mr and Mrs Österreicher three years later? I am opposed to saying that the Austrians are more lazy or sicker than the Germans. That can't be true! And a year costs about 1.2 billion – a huge savings potential! Mein Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Minister has already said not only save, there are also growth impulses inside, because no one can tell me that growth can be achieved by not working and going into retirement. I can only achieve growth through work and performance. So two flies were hit at one stroke. I have a growth component and a saving component. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Second example: Health care. Take a look at the facts and facts! Usually, the number of cots per 1,000 inhabitants is estimated. In Austria there are 6.1 beds per 1 000 inhabitants, OECD average 3.9. You have to look at that, a huge savings potential, ladies and gentlemen! Funding: 5.5 percent of the social product in Austria, half that in the EU average, 2.7 percent. Ladies and gentlemen, we have savings potential! That is why it is right, for example – I quote once again a Social Democratic, now for the second time, namely Hannes Androsch – to say Hannes Androsch recently, in the situation in which we have such huge savings potential, it is just a provocation to talk about new taxes and tax increases. I agree with this opinion, ladies and gentlemen, it is a provocation to talk about new taxes in this savings potential. But, ladies and gentlemen, of course you also have to say: In democracy, the very simple principle – a principle that the opposition must repeatedly experience: You can be convinced a hundred times that your opinion is the right one – if you don't have a majority, it won't help you. We have a coalition of two parties, no question at all, and the public debate, including today's discussion, shows that the positions are completely clear. [[Abg. Bucher: Is there a majority?]] One government partner, the ÖVP, is for savings on the expenditure side through efficiency increases because we have huge savings potential – the other is for tax increases. We will have to get together, ladies and gentlemen, but the positions are, I believe, absolutely clear. We have huge savings potential. The ÖVP is in favour of increasing efficiency, in all areas, our coalition partner wants to increase taxes. - The voters can take a picture.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e8661	Mr Klubobmann Strache is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e8684	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It is interesting to hear the answer of this Federal Government after the loss of Triple A has been reported to us: The Federal Government reacts with ambiguity. If that is the only answer, then this Federal Government is really ready for withdrawal, then it should be sent to the desert immediately and new elections should take place in view of what this government has already done. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If today Mrs Finanzminister says that you can no longer spend more than you take, these are wonderful, right words, just: Who else lived it? Since 2006, this red and black German government has charged the Austrians with an additional debt of over €50 billion. That's the reality! And, of course, this does not go away from any credit rating agency if one evaluates the true debt of Austria, which, of course, is higher with the outsourced areas than it is constantly presented to the public. And if you have been forced by this Federal Government to hold for EFSF – for the so-called European Rescue Screen; in reality, as I always say, this is not a rescue shield, but a forced evasion screen – with €21 billion on Austrian taxpayers, for a forced evasion screen that does not help the Greeks or the Portugueses or anyone else, then this does not, of course, remain hidden from the credit rating agencies, but, of course, this occurs and leads to an appropriate assessment. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] And if Austria's banks in Eastern Europe have been as shocked, have lived a casino business as well, have speculated as they have been and there are arrests in billions, as we now have to read every day from Hungary and Italy, so that billions of outages are threatened and the Republic and the Austrian taxpayers are supposed to be right for that, then of course a credit rating agency is not missing. And all these are the reasons that have led to the loss of Triple A. When I was standing here at this pult at the beginning of November last year and said that due to these developments it has long been clear that we will lose our triple A at the beginning of 2012 – you can read it in the Minutes – I have been called a terrifying person here, who is here for the best away from reality. Unfortunately, we have kept God's right because it was foreseeable due to your political decisions and because of how you fulfill your responsibility. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If the debt brake has been tried over and over again in the discussion and how important it is to anchor this debt brake in the Constitution, I must say: There, too, you have to be a real politician! This has been a purely placebo debate, because if you decide once more €10 billion in multi-indebtedness in the last budget in December, you will not take a credit rating agency seriously! And it has been shown that credit rating agencies have not taken this debate seriously either. I have to live in the budget. I can't spend it anymore! Then I should have just started in the field of administration or finally had to get a subsidy brake, as we liberals demand it. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] At Eurostat, we are European champions with 5.6 percent of subsidy expenditure per year compared to GDP. This is €18.5 billion, which we spend annually on subsidies. shake. If we were on the European average at 3 per cent, and if this were also anchored as a subsidy brake in the Constitution with 3 per cent expenditure, we would have a huge savings potential! And it's up there. Of course, there are many areas where you can start. When I read in the “standard” that only €737 million is spent on media in this country and €100 million for government insanity, I must say: There is also a huge potential for savings, even there you have to start. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But the Federal Chancellor is not willing to talk to the largest opposition party in this House, he does not live any political and democratic responsibility. He says it is important to him to anchor the debt brake in the Constitution, but he does not want to talk to the largest opposition party. This shows that he has no political responsibility. Mr Klubobmann's head of the ÖVP has at least tried to do this, and I really have to mention the real effort, but he is also being counter-cared by his head of the party and vice chancellor Spindelegger, of whom one has the impression that he does not want direct democracy at all and ultimately also the debt brake not in the Constitution. We want direct democracy, because at last the right is to go back from the people! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And we want a binding referendum to take place from 4 percent of declarations of support for a popular desire. And we want this to be implemented by 30 percent in this referendum, which is also binding on all the issues that the people desire to decide. We want the last word to have the Austrian population! I would like to invite all the heads of the party to talk to see if they really want to be serious about direct democracy and whether or not they want to make direct democracy possible. I do this from this place today, and I would ask you to really consider this seriously, because I believe that the people have a right to it.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e8796	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Kogler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e8818	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister, you referred to the current rating debate yourself and probably also to the research update of Standard & Poor’s, which I brought there. In contrast to the ÖVP delegates, it is obvious that it is the Greens who really read the document. There's no word in there about a debt brake! On the one hand, Mrs Federal Minister, it is something of the international interrelationship of the Austrian economy, but on the other hand, and above all, there is the fact that the eurozone as a whole, but especially individual countries, as well as Austria, will be affected by the fact that they are also being further reduced into the crisis. This does not mean, however, that we should do something about revenue and expenditure. It is just a call for a more intelligent approach so that we do not reinforce the crisis-like tendencies. What does that mean for saving, expressing oneself in the country, and investing? It will probably mean that we are putting savings where this crisis can be used as an opportunity to finally cut off old pots. But by the way – and I will go into it immediately – these are old, essentially red-black proporzfelds, where you still drive your beings, but point to the opposition and say that this should be ready for reform. Those who have really refused the reforms so far are in your ranks, and if not here, then on the country's headquarters! They are still sitting there, the organized blockers and non-reformers, the national conference, the epicenter of every refusal to reform in this country! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] And it's red-black with a small orange intrusion – or blue – that doesn't even fall into the weight at the moment. I will now tell you what you have failed since 2000, and that we have no budgetary problem at all, Black-Blue and Red-Black would only have done the following, that is to say, save usefully, properly invested – that is what we will need for the future – but also – and this clearly distinguishes us from the other opposition parties who are setting up their own voodoo-mathematics in economic terms – clearly stated that one can and should collect taxes, only because of a more reasonable tax structure and tax justice, but finally, as already said in the direction of ÖVP, to eliminate old heads – privileges in the tax system. If we had had this at last or had had been for 12 years, since 2000, if we had done only half of what all economically developed countries would have done in the field of property-related taxes – only half of it! – would that be € 2 billion a year. Then you will reach €24 billion up to now – including 2012 – and with interest rates and interest-rate effects at just over €30 billion. That is the size that would now enable us to do so, we would have done it to be exactly below the 60 percent mesh-rich criteria. It's your failure because you're running client policy for foundation billionaires, for millions of heirs, for super earners! And it would really only happen to the whole uppers without them wandering because they still have half the privilege in Austria, which they would not have anywhere else. You owe it to me. [[Assembly with the Greens and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] And now, in the direction of opposition – with an argument that is in no way durable – you say: Debt brake in the Constitution! This creates more problems than solving them, because even that is really bad for you! But maybe we'll help you out of the dead end and write something in. However, we do not need this in the Constitution, but what we need is a credible and intelligent policy. This would calm the so-called players in the financial markets, but not Your hysterical envelope on every occasion and that you put the blame on others on the part of the Federal Government. If you look at the SPÖ, you may have some place, namely, in terms of expenditure, that there is often nothing going on. It is really incomprehensible, for example, that in our country there are still 19 health insurance companies, which we could also organise in one. [[Congratulation with greens, FPÖ and BZÖ.]] [[Abg. Kickl: Bravo!]] It is also completely incomprehensible that funding policy – including in red-led federal states – looks so that it does not know what the others are doing, as well as corporations – and this is an old red tradition – to provide support under the aspect of job security, to be extorted by corporations that are writing profits in millions, even billions, but still do, hundreds of millions of millions! If country structures are not involved, the claim will fail – and we are very much in favour of doing so – where it would not hurt, where one could afford it. And that's about hundreds of millions. Similarly, you act in relation to school administration and hospital planning. At the Federal Party level, we agreed on this – you know that too; the ÖVP has been a pioneer, then at the top with Josef Pröll. We have greatly appreciated and supported these plans. However, these plans were “rejected” by Erwin Pröll and consorts! Unfortunately, that is the truth! There would also have been €2 billion of savings in it. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] If this had been done over the past 12 years, the budget would have already been reorganised, on the part of expenditure, on which you value the ÖVP. Therefore: At least some of you can reach half, because then the budget would be renovated – and properly investing is no longer a problem. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] I'm prophesying to you: With your economy, which you are now calling out, you will only intensify the crisis! That's why: more intelligence and less hysteria.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e8893	The next item is the speech by Mr Ing. Westenthaler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e8915	Madam President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Kogler, briefly a sentence on you: I am overpowered by the ability of the Greens to learn, because when we called for the merger of health and social insurance institutions in the early 1990s, some of you have not yet been able to do so, but at least the Greens have played hard with their eyes and have been against our proposals. [[BZÖ and FPÖ are welcome.]] [[Calls to the Greens.]] But at least you are able to learn and also take on demands from other opposition parties – and that is all right. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] But now I really want to deal with you from the ÖVP, because that's actually dramatic what's happening in this party; that's almost a sad game. Mr. Stummvoll comes out here with a loyal eyelash and here at the speaker's desk a plea against tax increases, against the introduction of new taxes, but at the same time negotiates new taxes and new burdens for the people of our country at another address stupid partyobmann Spindelegger with the ÖVP Minister of Economic Affairs and the entire ÖVP ministerial team! Remember, Mr. Dummful: Her Minister for Economic Affairs, Mitterlehner, said: 30 percent about new taxes and revenue to re-establish the budget. Minister of the Interior Mikl-Leaner is making a mistake about new taxes, your head of the party Spindelegger is dealing with new taxes – and that is why I can only say, Mr Stummful, with you the question always arises which part of which ÖVP part is just at the speaker's desk. There you can choose individual positions, but you can't talk about a line, what you represent of the ÖVP for that. [[In the case of the BZÖ, as well as the members of the FPÖ.]] One more thing, Mr. stupid: Your party is celebrating a very dubious anniversary in January, from our point of view at least very doubtful, but perhaps at least you are delighted, namely 25 years of government participation in the ÖVP. There's a good look at the statistics: When you came back from the ÖVP 25 years ago to the government, do you know how high the debt ratio was in our country? – 48 percent of GDP. Today, on the other hand, we hold 75, even 80 percent of GDP in this respect. There you can only say to you from the ÖVP: That’s your “deservance”, that’s your “performance”! They are rightly referred to by the ÖVP as Austria's debt party. [[BZÖ and FPÖ are welcome.]] They have constantly increased taxes and made debts; you have to say that quite clearly once. Therefore, Mr. Stumbling and others from the ÖVP: Stop fabricating here about no new taxes! You will be taken from the ÖVP, even before the cock crows three times – and I do not mean “hahn” to your Commissioner of the EU – to fall down and decide on new taxes for the people of our country! This is how it looks with the ÖVP – as this government is even in a break. Klubobmann Bucher quoted various statements of you from the ÖVP earlier. Just a few weeks ago – no matter if the Minister was Fekter, Mr Spindelegger or ÖVP-Klubobmann Kopf – it was called, for example, on 6. In December, Austria's Triple A is in no way at all at any risk. So it's not that long ago, a little more than a month, Mr. Klubobmann's head. Financial State Secretary Arbitrators have also said that Austria's Triple A is not at risk, so: Everything in Butter, we're making such a great policy that the Triple A is not at risk! – You can also see very clearly how “genial” you are there in this Federal Government. [[Abg. Strache: Mrs Fekter has answered in mid-January that it is not at risk!]] The only triple A that you have from this federal government is: a rrogance, a lack of intellect and a shared baccassing! That's the triple A of this government that's been left. [[Congratulation and bravorage at BZÖ.]] You from this Federal Government are all over the place. Just remember: A year and a half ago, Chancellor Faymann, on the National Council's main committee, said that the Greeks would not apply for financial assistance! So you can see: You at SPÖ and ÖVP are on the side of Greece, you are on the side of the liability framework, you are at the EFSF, you are at the Triple A, you are on the side of the budget, you are on the debt side! I am already asking – to you, Mrs Finanzminister, and to the entire government team – how you will find your door open in the evening if you are standing by it all the time! This question really has to be asked, because as often as this Federal Government is not yet a government – and this is now also evident in the hustle and bustle of the Austrian population, which you want to ask again from ÖVP and SPÖ. Da_te By the way, you have previously failed to obtain more revenue: This federal government – and this has to be broken down on the tongue – is the only government that introduces and increases taxes, but nevertheless achieves less revenue! Passing, for example, on the mineral oil tax that you raised a year ago – and now you're saying that due to the outstanding fuel tourism of the mineral oil tax revenue items, there is less revenue. That means you can't even raise taxes from ÖVP and SPÖ! This Federal Government itself fails to deal with the issue of additional income through tax increases! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Intervocations at ÖVP and SPÖ.]] This federal government speaks of a debt brake – and makes new debts! This federal government is talking about savings – and is making tax increases! This federal government is talking about tax reforms – and it is paying the money to officials with an enormously high salary. This federal government is talking about budget consolidation – and is pushing the money to Greece! This federal government is talking about a rescue shield – and leaves the Austrian population in the rain! That's not a policy! Since I already praise Klubobmann Bucher and the BZÖ, which is the only party now the lawyer of taxpayers' taxpayers and will remain as long as you do not put proper structural reforms on the table by the Federal Government. Ordinary structural reforms are underway! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] And as long as you don't save where to save, the situation won't improve. We have put on the table numerous proposals – and at all we believe: Put the cards on the table! Traded You've been there for weeks? [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] They from the Federal Government base the largest load package in the Second Republic, but do not tell people the truth. And that is also something you will undoubtedly get to feel from ÖVP and SPÖ at the next choice.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e9100	Next speaker: Mr Krainer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e9122	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! If Mr Westenthaler says here that he is the lawyer of taxpayers, then you have to look at the reality a little bit: When was the highest tax and tax rate in Austria? – When Mr Westenthaler Klubobmann was a government party! Under Black and Blue, there was the highest tax and tax rate in the history of the Second Republic. That's the truth! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Interim calls at FPÖ and BZÖ.]] Let's see how taxes have developed in recent years: The tax and tax rate has fallen in 2009, falling in 2010; there are no figures for 2011, but it will have also fallen there. That is, everyone who always pretends to be permanently increasing taxes should look at the statistics of Statistics Austria. The tax and tax rate has fallen. The question of why this is so is relatively easy to answer, for we have said about the SPÖ: There is a problem of justice in Austria, work is too high with taxes and taxes, but income from capital and assets is taxed far too low. It is true that we have increased taxes on capital and wealth, but we have lowered them for the field of labour, which is lowered more than we have increased on the other hand. And that's why taxes in our country have dropped. The problem of justice has not yet been solved, and Mr Stumbling has said something very important here: Only by work and performance can values be created! Let's see how our tax system deals with work and performance: If money is earned in this country by work and performance, then 40 € will be collected from 100 € in taxes and taxes. On the other hand, if money is earned through capital increase and wealth income, only €25 will be collected. That is to say, according to our existing tax system, the higher taxation, the higher the performance behind an income, and if little performance is provided, the tax is low. Therefore, we will not give peace from the SPÖ and say again and again: We want a fairer tax system! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. stupid.]] We want to reduce taxes and taxes on work and increase it to capital and assets – whether there is a crisis or not, because the SPÖ will always work for greater justice! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr President, you have said something very unfair here, namely that there is a government party that wants to save expenditure efficiently in all areas, and that there is one who only wants to raise taxes. – You know exactly that’s wrong! We have always said that we are in favour of a balanced relationship between savings and revenue-based measures. We have talked about both measures and always about balance. Please call me a country in the European Union, which only saves expenditure! You won't find anything! [[Abg. Bookbookers: You make a great contribution to stability! Perfect!]] All those who now have to finance the costs of the crisis, of course, also finance them on the revenue side. Of course, all the packages you look at will also include revenue-based measures. It was a mistake from the beginning – and it was already rowing many back – to say: We only want to save expenditure on the part of the budget and not on the revenue side. This is not real at all and will not happen at the end of the day! [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: It's only through growth!]] If you say that you want more efficiency in all areas, and the Minister of Finance excludes one area, then let's talk about the family! Austria is third in the OECD as a whole in terms of family support, i.e. in relation to the money we spend on families. But what happens to the birth rate? – She has sunk, sunk, sunk. We don't spend the money efficiently! We have made a clear proposal here: Let us remove tax subsidies for the child care costs of the rich! Let's do this! Let us take this money, and with one part we promote the expansion of childcare facilities, and we use the other part for consolidation! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We will have positive effects. Of the tax deductibility of childcare, few have something, but from better kindergartens all have something! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If we manage childcare accordingly, we know that there is also more employment and we also make a positive contribution to growth and employment. What we need is – as Mr Kogler said correctly – intelligent savings. That's an intelligent proposal! This is a proposal for greater efficiency! All I hear from the ÖVP is: No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no! – although Mr Stumpfully says that we want to talk about everything. But something is going to be explained about certain areas. Finally, I can bring you a quote from the report by Standard & Poor’s, which Mr Kogler has mentioned here. The reason for the downgradation is written in it – I quote –: Therefore, we believe that a reform process based on one-sided savings measures could be ineffective by falling domestic demand to the same extent as consumer concerns increase their jobs and income and thus erode national tax revenues. - Quote. [[President Mag Prammer gives the bell sign.]] That's true, of course! Unintelligent saving leads to a deeper separation into the crisis. We also need to invest, and therefore our proposals.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e9232	Next, Mr. Ing. School speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e9254	Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen in the House! In Austria, the economy is running well. We have a few unemployed people. Tax revenue last year was high, above expectations. Why do we have a problem? The Germans face the same situation. Germany has a budget deficit of less than one percent, we will not reach three and a half. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Kogler.]] Ladies and gentlemen! If we are now discussing cosmetics and talking about the need to break down some particularly beautiful, horrific empires so that this goes out, Mr Kogler, then we are going far beyond the subject! The fact is that in 2007 we had a 60 percent debt rate under Minister of Finance Molterer. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Before the crisis!]] We know that in two years we have built up 20 billion debts. We know that we are now in a situation where we need to take very serious measures, and these serious measures have the name ‘debt brake’. What does that mean? – That means that we will have around 9 billion deficits this year. To the normal life, that means: Six days a week we can afford, the seventh day no longer. We borrow the money for the Sunday trip, the Schnitzel and the Heurigen visit in the evening. Ladies and gentlemen! It is quite clear that this is not going well for long! This does not work well especially when the times around it become more difficult. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Ask the Minister! She knows better!]] The fact is that the European stress situation in Austria is putting a lot in the backpack, and it is clear that we must therefore deal very seriously with things. Saving is announced, but saving doesn't mean we're going to delete Sunday, but saving means thinking all week about how to spend the money so meaningfully that for Sunday, there's still enough left. Saving means working efficiently, saving means turning the euro twice. I'm Bauer, and I can tell you: In agriculture, the compensatory payments that we need, because prices have fallen sharply, have not increased, they have not been adjusted in terms of inflation. Nevertheless, we can still somehow achieve farmers today, because saving is our basic attitude. That's not a philosophy, that's not an ideology, that's simply our attitude! We just take care of the money and try to do something about it! And that is the right way for Austria at this time! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] If we now consider exactly where in the individual areas of administration we simply take out what the economy is hindering and hardworking people from working, if we consider where we reduce conditions and simply create spaces, then this will give us the turbo so that we can get on with it! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We do not need to believe that we will continue in Austria by making the performance worse and by depressing those who trust something! We will have to take care of where we spend, but we will also have to make sure that people who want to move something forward can really do something. Innovation, research and performance are needed. We make the money in export, so we have to be better than the others. We can't even face competitive disadvantages! It is quite clear that we do not want to harm the Voest, so we give it free certificates so that the Voest can exist in the general energy situation. It is equally clear that we do not want to harm agriculture, so the same prices of diesel apply to agriculture as they do around it, and when things are said about agricultural diesel and anything else, I say: It is just about equalizing competition, as is the case with the Voest, for which everyone will nod. Ladies and gentlemen! We are simply concerned that we are now making joint efforts. What does the term “debt brake ” mean? – Debt brake means that we want to reduce our deficit to € 1 billion by 2017. I am not talking about percent, but I am talking about the reduction from € 9 billion to € 1 billion, continuously and sustainablely. Ladies and gentlemen, it must be clear to us that it is not enough to speak a little nice and say: We've invented everything somewhere before! That's not enough! Now it is about encouraging those who want to cooperate for Austria and that those here in this House who want to contribute to the consolidation of Austria are also truly in colour. There is nothing to do with talking first, but then when it comes to kneading and getting out! It is a matter of working together to address the right issue, to get involved and to implement measures. I fear that the coalition will remain nothing but to do it alone, but we will do it because Austria needs it! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e9329	Mr Kickl is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e9350	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that if one wants to analyse government work on the fight against the debt crisis, you don't need a time historian, you don't need a political scientist, you don't need an economic scientist, but you need a chaostheorist. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That is, I think, the only adequate science that can be applied to what is happening here. They have brought the chaos to the government, and at a time when Titans are needed in the positive sense, we are dealing with chaos. This is a sad finding, ladies and gentlemen! We need order, we need stability, we need determination, we need clear Decisions, however, we have the chaos in red and black, not only since yesterday or before, but for too long, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] They therefore come from SPÖ and ÖVP and, as in a belly shop, carry out your decades of government experience as proof of your special crisis management skills in the current debt crisis. – Let’s look at the balance of your government activity in recent years and decades! Austria has now found inclusion in the elite club of the highest debt countries. We have one of the highest tax and tax quotas that has ever existed, and you are basing on further increasing this quota. We have a bureaucratic wild growth that is looking for the same, and we are subsidizers. – This is the balance sheet, and this is to be seen as proof of your skills and skills to deal with this debt crisis! Ladies and gentlemen, you can only say: That's a joke! What you're trying to sell us as a crisis management – you've seen it again today – reminds us in many areas much more of the excited gagger in a chicken stall when the fox comes, than of an actual course of consolidation, as it would be necessary for this country! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, it's been playing back and forth for weeks now! For weeks there is no agreement on how high the sum you have to put on somewhere to rip the row around. It goes to Austria as in the bazaar of Ankara: One calls a sum, the other one a different sum. What kind of crisis management is that? The one party calls “Hü! ” the other party calls “Hott! ” This is a part of the gamer in this “poultry. ” [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] There is no uniform schedule until you rip around the row and until when you want to implement the savings package, from which you really don't know what it's supposed to include, except that new taxes are to be included. One would still like it in the carnival, which might be quite appropriate thematically, the others say it would be better in the fasting period, and that is perhaps appropriate. But there is no agreement in this government. The only thing you know and what you agree on is: New taxes must come here! They are calling for new taxes so that they can continue to participate in all this European displeasure – because they are European fetishists and nothing else – so that they can continue to pump money into the Pleite States and thus ensure justice – but, of course, in your way – in the pension system, ladies and gentlemen! [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] This is really a point which is very bitter for the Austrians. We can now discuss diplomatic passports. I am very much in favour of abolishing privileges where they really exist. But then we will also discuss the political pensions! I can no longer hear it, ladies and gentlemen, when the SPÖ strips the word “justice gap” and here in the house as a clubman sits a meaty gap of the SPÖ. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] There sits behind – now he is not there right now – colleague Peter Pilz, also a meated gap of justice. And also Mr Bartenstein, who will not tire of condemning the conditions in the ÖBB, which he does quite rightly, is himself a meaty justice gap in the pension system. The Federal President is also such. Do you think that the Austrian population is so stupid that they accept that you are going to go to the ASVG-pensionists and think about a malus system according to which those who can no longer be punished, but those who are guarding a desk will eventually be equipped with a credit rating because they are longer in the job, but don't make a finger to approach your own privileges once, ladies and gentlemen? What is this state of affairs in this country? [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] With this excited back and forth, where the left hand does not know what the right is doing, I do not wonder that even when assessing what this downgrading means now, one does not agree. One of them says: We've always known that, that's something quite normal, which basically doesn't touch us at all. The others are as affected by lightning and say: This is surprising, unjust and a secret attack. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, what you have to offer is not a crisis strategy, not a government policy, but a nest of contradictions and nothing else at all! I think that the credit rating agencies also see this very carefully, and that is why the outlook is negative. The reason for this is not that the Austrians are not industrious and our economy is not efficient, but because the credit rating agencies You have your eyelashes in your sight, and there can only be a negative outlook, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] I therefore call on you to make your contribution to a positive outlook, and this can only stand in your resignation!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e9477	Next speaker: Member of the Commission. Lightenecker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e9499	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! The situation is not easy: We face the fact that the economy is weaker and unemployment is increasing, especially youth unemployment. Of course, we must see Austria in the overall context of Europe, and because I have just mentioned youth unemployment, I would like us to look at the opportunities of our young people: With our neighbours in Hungary, youth unemployment is 26 per cent, Slovakia is 34 per cent, and Spain is 40 per cent. Although it is comforting that in Austria we only have a 9 percent youth unemployment, it is now about deciding which way we go: Are we going on the path of shattering and unjust distribution, including for our young people, or are we going the way to shape the future together? When it comes to shaping the future together, ladies and gentlemen, the foreign exchange must be: Invest in the future, save intelligently and manage fairly! And if we continue to invest in the future, it is clear that the major challenges are also here in Austria in the field of education, research and, of course, also in the field of climate change and environmental protection. Education is the challenge to secure the future, opportunities and justice for young people. In particular, investment must be made there, as well as in: research. Only modern, innovative products will strengthen our companies and will help create modern jobs. And, of course, it is now also necessary to invest in climate change and environmental protection. There, ladies and gentlemen, are the advantages for consumers and, of course, for businesses. Another advantage is to become independent of the costs of oil and gas and, in turn, to take advantage of the opportunities for jobs in Austria. Good jobs are also an important basis for future tax revenue. This is an area we must pay attention to and invest in. It's right: Saving up is one thing. It is much more important, however, to see how we are going about investing in the future. And to save: Of course, it is time to address even uncomfortable truths and to save wisely. Yes, it will be about finally raising the actual retirement age and creating appropriate working conditions so that people can stay in the work process longer. Of course, it will also be a question of reducing subsidies. Ladies and gentlemen, Austria has a subsidy rate of 3.4 percent. This makes us absolutely top in Europe. For the EU-27, this averages 1.2 percent, and I think it is a lot about researching the promotions and looking at where to achieve efficiency gains and mergers and yet maintain the recoverys in the economy. Mrs Minister, the third essential area is a modern, sustainable tax system, and a modern, sustainable tax system, of course, also means justice. - That's one. But the other is to design the tax system modern, sustainable and eco-social. What does that mean? – You yourself said in an interview that Austria is far behind in the revenue of environmental taxes at 5.7 percent. Mrs. Minister, you have said that you are committed to ecologizing the tax system. – I say to you: That would be Austria on the right path! That's a big challenge. On the one hand, we have too low environmental taxes and low capital taxes and, on the other, too high labour costs. And precisely to solve this problem, we Greens have a sophisticated, modern model, namely the eco-social tax reform. We like to sit down and see how we can do this in Austria. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mrs Minister, this will not mean any additional revenue, but it will allow the economy and the tax system to be designed to secure the revenue base in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e9563	Next speaker: Mr Dolinschek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e9584	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Perhaps all the political groups here in the House have now recognized something: That we have an expenditure problem. It is now about how to handle this whole thing, and “debt brake ” has been a winged word for half a year. The interesting, Mrs Bundesminister, is the following: Shortly before you gave your budget speech, it was said to feel a debt brake. In the form of a statement of formal notice, the President of the Court of Justice of the European Communities, the I am just saying that it is important for measures to be taken – whether in the constitutional or not – that is actually an incidental matter. One simply has to put in place measures, measures which, for example, have already been proposed by the Court of Auditors and various competent organisations. [[OBJECTIVES]] There has already been a Federal Reform Commission, which has worked out various things, but nothing has happened to this day, ladies and gentlemen. That's what gives me to think. If you spend more than you take, you have to borrow money. This, Mrs. Federal Minister, you said here today. This may also be a short-term measure, but a long-term measure would be to consider how to spend less – and every budget in Austria knows that – and to save on expenditure. Otherwise, it doesn't work in the long run. Mr Krainer thinks we need a fair tax system. - Yes, not at all! Of course we need this, of course we need it, but first we need to explore how it works with the taxes in Austria, and we need to reduce the debt. If Mr Krainer says that at the time when the SPÖ held government responsibility, the debt has been reduced, then I can only say: In 1980, as a percentage of GDP, debt remained at 35.4 percent and in 2001 at 67.1 percent, and according to statistics, it fell to 60.7 percent of GDP by 2007. At the time, however, the SPÖ was not in the government. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] Since then, they have risen again and will probably be 75 percent this year. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] – Mr Matznetter, you must bear in mind once! You must keep in mind the mirror, Mr Matznetter, that is important! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Finally make nails with heads and implement reforms! We have a reformal stand in Austria to complain about. I don't know about the ÖVP, because every association says something else there. Farmers say: You can't save with us! The economy says: You can't save with us! The workers say: No, no, no, Officials must continue to be able to retire at the age of 60 or 55, and so on and so on. And the SPÖ is just one thing anyway: tax increase, tax increase, tax increase! But where should we take them? We have one of the highest tax rates! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] We also have a huge promotion jungle in Austria, ladies and gentlemen, who have heard through-forested. There has once been a proposal to create a database of transparency in Austria. I still do not see a transparency database! There are double and triple promotions. Then the covenant pays something, then the land pays something, then the communities pay something. This goes across the vegetable garden, regardless of whether this is an association in Austria, whether it is economic promotion, whether it is agricultural promotion, whether it is social projects and so on. In any case, this is a once-in-a-life forested thing. This is about 18 billion, one third of which would be saved. It is only once that we have to put in place first measures to reforest new applications for funding, to stop double, triple funding, then we have already saved a third. This would be the first measure to take place in the first year. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Of course, it is clear that measures must also be taken in the case of pensions. We need a uniform pension system in Austria, according to which there is only one pension insurance institution for all, a health insurance institution and an accident insurance institution and not, what do I know, 22 different. Equally necessary is administrative reform. You can save a lot. The proposals are on the table, only: No one is putting it into practice because you are running a client policy – the reds as well as the blacks! That's it. Save yes, but only with the others. The blacks demand to save on the ÖBB, the reds say in turn, no, in agriculture, in the economy must be saved. It is important to explore the whole system of support, to check which funding can be removed without having a negative impact on jobs. First of all, that's the most important thing! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Then we can put in place the other measures, towards a proper administrative reform – we have to come to that – and a reasonable tax system. First, however, as has been said, we must work through this funding jungle and put in place the first measures there. There we can save money from the beginning. This is the way for the future – and not a load turbo that you are now considering!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e9696	Now comes Mr. Ing. Lugar speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e9717	Madam President. High house! [[Abg. Wheeler: A scientific treatise!]] In recent days, there have been some who have wondered that we have lost the best credit note. I have not wondered so much, but quite the contrary, I have wondered why it took so long that a credit rating agency has become aware of us. Maybe it's because you just haven't put the focus on us so much before. If you look at the numbers more closely, I have to say, we should have lost the best credit quality much earlier. If a state cannot even pay the interest for the borrowed loans and even for the normal, daily business has to receive additional loans, then definitely fire is on the roof and then it is time to lose the best credit quality. One thing is certain: For example, if you go to the bank as an entrepreneur and ask for a loan, but you can't even pay the interest of the existing loan, but just need loans to handle the day-to-day business at all, then the bank will ask you if you have a bird. But as a state, we demand from the financial markets: Dear friends, give us money!, nevertheless we can not even serve the existing loans, can not even pay the interest, can not even do the normal delivery! – In view of this, someone is really wondering why we lose the credit triple A?- Oh, my God! In my opinion, we should have been further downgraded. Now many say that debt is the crisis, we could not prevent it from happening like a natural disaster. The comparison makes us sure! Switzerland, for example, did its homework in 2005 and produced surpluses in 2008 when we built a deficit that was astronomical. Switzerland did this because it did its homework in 2005. What are we doing? – We don’t do our homework and are struggling that we pay 3 to 4 percent interest for our government bonds. Of course, investors want higher interest rates. Would you give someone money at a low interest rate, or if there is a possibility that you won't see it again? And this possibility exists, Austria too can slumber into bankruptcy. This is not as astronomical and as unlikely as many believe. Austria can also argue. How do you act, Mrs. Minister? – If you spend more than you take, you could increase taxes, but you don't want to. No, you're doing a lot better. You don't raise taxes, you borrow the money. And what if you borrow it? You'll have to pay it back sometime. Increase therefore You don't have the taxes now, but you'll increase them if you really want to repay the money. But you don't want that either, because everyone who knows about financial economy knows: States don't pay back their debts! That teaches history. There is virtually no state that has ever repaid its debts. Either you get rid of debt over inflation – that's also a tax – or you go into the state bankruptcy, which ultimately also affects citizens. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter]] So your strategy is: The public debt is simply not paid back, behind me the flood, according to the motto: The taxpayer will judge it! That's your policy, and that's exactly what you need to reject. Now many say that we in Austria could not change anything. We are a small country, the financial crisis has come upon us, we cannot change it. - That's right. We cannot prevent the collapse of the financial world, the collapse of the euro, which is guaranteed. The euro will collapse, even the financial markets will collapse, that is just a matter of time. So it is not the question of whether we can change this, because we will walk through this dark valley, but the question is how we are preparing for it. We can do a lot like Switzerland. Switzerland has been well prepared for crises. Switzerland – if you look at history – has got away relatively unscathed over the last hundred years because it has and also had stable finances accordingly. That's exactly what we need, and that's why we need politicians who don't move each other to the Black Peter. One says the other doesn't want to, and the other says, one doesn't work. We need politicians like in Switzerland, who sit down at a table that solves the problems of this country, which are sufficient. We need that, not tomorrow, not in the years 2015 or 2020, but we need it today! Today, we need politicians who put together to find a solution to the problems in Austria, which are enough. This will create stable finances again, and then we will regain the confidence of the financial markets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e9757	No one is reporting on this. The debate on the current hour is closed. [[10:30:19]] Current European hour
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e9778	We're now coming to the current one. European hours on the subject: “What does the current debt crisis mean for the future of Europe?” Mr Klubobmann's head is the first to speak. The speaking time is 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e9807	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mrs Finanzminister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Unfortunately, the European Union has a number of structural errors which we must at the moment also work hard to deal with. Among other things, it also has a democratic deficit, which has been eliminated by the Lisbon Agenda, by providing for the strengthening of Parliaments, including national parliaments. I believe that this democratization and, above all, the involvement and strengthening of the European Parliament must continue. I am therefore particularly pleased that two Austrians, Members of the European Parliament, have been elected in key positions during these hours. The former Head of Delegation of the Social Democrats, Hannes Swoboda, became President of the Group of the Socialists in the European Parliament as a whole, and Othmar Karas, Head of Delegation of the EIA Members in the European Parliament, recently became one of the Vice-Presidents of the European Parliament. [[In the case of the ÖVP, the members of the SPÖ and the Agg. Brosz.]] I think we should congratulate both of them from this point of view, because they are both defenders and defenders of this stronger democratisation of the European institutions, and I think Austria can also make an important contribution in this direction to the further development of the European institutions – thanks to these two personalities. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, Europe is currently experiencing a massive crisis of trust. There is little confidence in the creditworthiness of individual EU Member States, there is little confidence in the EU institutions, in the euro area. The result must be experienced in these days: a reduction in the creditworthiness of some EU, euro countries. This is an expression of this crisis of trust, but this is not a targeted attack or a withdrawal from Austria. Austria is still one of the best-valued countries in the euro area and in Europe in the relationship between the whole of the European States, but we are currently experiencing a downgrading of total confidence in European problem-solving capacity. This is actually the true background of this rating that we are currently experiencing. But this is not quite understandable – if, at most, from this somewhat complicated decision-making process – because, unlike the US, which has over 10 percent deficit and over 90 percent debt, or even Japan with almost 200 percent debt, 6.2 percent deficit and 85 percent debt. The relationships seem to be somewhat confused especially with Standard & Poor’s. Nevertheless: We need to look at ourselves, make sure that we strengthen our stability, and not the others, and that means we have some work ahead of us. Ladies and gentlemen, despite all the problems, European integration is a fascinating project for peace and prosperity. The individual Member States are competing with each other, but we are particularly competitive as a continent, as a continental economy Europe in competition with the Asian region, with the USA, and we are also competing for raw materials, for jobs, for growth, for investors. And precisely in this competition there is no alternative but to strengthening the European Union and the euro. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] All those who are constantly criticizing or putting sayings into the world like “Our money for our leuke” and“ generously paid! ” are said: I really can't hear it anymore! Austria is one of the main beneficiaries of EU accession and one of the main beneficiaries of the introduction of the euro. By participating in the euro, we have achieved a national economic profit of about €22 billion, and about 8 percent of our GDP results from participation in the euro and our membership in the EU. Austria is a unique profiter of the European Union and its membership in this European Union. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] But unfortunately, we must admit that errors have been made in the design of the European Union, in the enlargement of the European Union and also in the introduction of the euro. Unfortunately, you have to admit that. The main problem is that we have included countries in the euro area, which have never and never been able to guarantee the stability that is necessary if we move in a common economic area, but above all in a common monetary area. The solution, ladies and gentlemen, is not that we are trying to get one, two, three countries out of this Community. Will you, Mr Bucher, take responsibility for the consequences of this? These countries will not be able to serve their debts until they return to their old currency and continue to have debt in euro. [[Abg. Bookers: You will still experience it!]] Then who will pay the token for it? – only the Europeans and the Austrians. [[Abg. Strache: You will experience it after the summer!]] That's not an alternative, Mr. Bucher! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, those who are serious about it with responsibility, with responsibility for Austria, cannot press ahead with our responsibility in Europe. These things are interconnected, to the same extent that we have benefited from this interdependence. That is, to assume responsibility for Europe and thus also for Austria is to exercise solidarity with our partners, i.e. to strengthen the institutions at European level, and at the same time to achieve a strengthening of Europe's chances. This strengthening of the community of opportunities will once again benefit Austria as one of the strongest countries. This is the truth, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Therefore, once again to the address of all the panicmakers and fearmakers in the opposition series: [[Abg. Bookers: Or obnoxious!]] They can now say that we should push them off the bedside, we should no longer support them and we should no longer practice solidarity with them, and finally we are all harming ourselves. [[Abg. Bucher: How do you want to finance all this?]] [[Abg. Strache: You are threatening the future!]] This is not the form of responsibility we imagine. Our idea of responsibility looks different. For us, this means fiscal consolidation, the debt brake, and that is, above all, rehabilitating our government budget, not through taxes, but through structurally long-term savings measures. [[Abg. Strache: Make debt, make debt, make debt, that's your policy!]] [[Abg. Bucher: Where?]] This is the way we must go in the next few months, because at present, and the Minister for Finance has often expressed enough, Austria's budget is a barrel of holes. [[Abg. Bucher: Say the Mitterlehner!]] If you keep pouring in more water with new taxes, it's going down again. First, the holes have to be sealed so that we can't keep getting out of our hard-earned tax money. – This will be our way of budget recovery, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e9975	Mr Spindelegger spoke on a preliminary opinion. The speaking time should not exceed 10 minutes. - Please, Mr. Vice-Chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e9996	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! High house! I would particularly like to address two issues in the area of debt crisis and impact on Europe. One concerns the direct impact on Austria and the other, as we must continue in the European Union. I'm starting with the effects on Austria. This demolition of Standard & Poor’s on 13 March. It was not only inconvenient for January, there is nothing to beautify, it was incomprehensible for us too, and I hold it again. [[Abg. Bucher: Insanity!]] Why incomprehensible? – Incomprehensible because two other U.S. rating agencies came to an exact opposite result in a close-up relationship – a five-day period, the other one a month before. [[Abg. Kickl: Don't shout it!]] I suppose that the situation has not changed in five days. And if Moody’s and Fitch say that Austria has earned a Triple A – with a stable outlook – it is incomprehensible when another US rating agency says five days later that Austria has earned only one AA+ – with a negative outlook. That's it. But one thing is clear: We must not be tempted to say this in a kind of Wagenburg mentality: Those out there who are yelling at Austria are not right! In fact, we also have to say – hand to heart! –, we know what we have to do. We in Austria know that we too have to react that we must set up an ambitious programme in Austria so that we can get back on healthy legs. That is why I stand and this Federal Government is also working on it. I would like to stress this once again. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] We are currently negotiating intensively about creative ways, not only how we manage this year in Austria in 2012, but also how we come to a different outlook for Austria in the next five years through system reforms. This is crucial, but also difficult, when we say how we will bring early pensioners to a different approach in the future, so that the age of entry actually increases when we say how we do differently in the promotions between the federal, state and local authorities, if, of course, we also have to put in place savings measures with the ÖBB. If we move towards administrative reform, in terms of health expenditure – including in cooperation with countries – we achieve cost reduction and if we also take new ways in the field of service law, then this is something that is not achieved by finger cutting, but by quality in negotiations. [[Abg. Street: Finally reduce the social security funds!]] I am good courage that soon we will also put results on the table, which are the right recipe for the next five years, for the future. I know a lot of people are asking: Why not today? – Quality also takes time, and this time we need to take care so that we carefully put a program on the table for the next five years through which we really stand on healthy legs. [[Abg. Kickl: But we've been asking for a long time!]] [[Abg. Bookers: Five years you have had time!]] I would like to stress one thing: The goal for us is to make these structural reforms happen and to achieve this triple A for Austria at all credit rating agencies. That's the goal we're working on. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] My very much appreciated Ladies and gentlemen, I hope that at least one has been achieved by this downgrading by Standard & Poor’s, namely that the last in Austria have been given a light that is still a refusal to reform, which defends with teeth and claws, what they currently have, and that those now come to the knowledge that we need to change something. [[Abg. Kickl: (directional towards ÖVP) Here you go!]] I don't just count on that – because you'll just ask: Who's that after? - Anyone, I'll come to the ones sitting here in the house. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Ha!]] Ladies and gentlemen, we said in December that we invited the opposition to join us with a debt brake in the Constitution. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Now it starts again!]] What was the answer? – Each of the opposition parties has built up obstacles that are in truth not skipable. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Such a nonsense!]] You have to make this clear again in this House, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Street: Just because you're in the...!]] [[Abg. Bucher: Who wanted the debt...!Unknown term type: "%s".?]] Especially you, of the opposition you boast that you are the inventors of the debt brake – and then you know nothing more about it – especially you of the opposition, you of the Greens, who say, before the last Austrian has given up his savings, we do nothing, or you of the FPÖ, who are always looking for the fault of others, it is you who have to answer that. [[Abg. May. Kogler: such a sourry! Such a polemic from the government bank!]] I ask you once again to stand up for us Austrians! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] I have the firm impression, and I would like to stress this again at this current European hour, that those who are in the Constitution today against the debt brake are the debtors of tomorrow, and we must not allow this for Austria. [[Interlocutory calls from Deputies Mag. Kogler and rhinestone]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Grosz: You've been doing this for 25 years!]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: This is such a polemic from the government bank! They are totally incompetent and unnegotiable! With such a vice chancellor you could only have the whole rating...!]] [[Abg. Strache: After this speech, we'll be downgraded right now!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] But of course I would also like to go to the European level. Ladies and gentlemen, in the end, Austria was not downgraded by Standard & Poor’s alone. We have just experienced once again how the Euro Rescue Screen has been downgraded and how nine other countries of the European Union have seen it to be assessed differently by the credit rating agencies. This is certainly not just a problem for Austria. There are consequences of this debt crisis throughout Europe, which today is to a degree, as we have never seen before. This is depressing and difficult. Mr Klubobmann has rightly referred to structural defects that we have in the European Union. This must be the occasion for all of us to finally eliminate these structural defects. In this regard, I say quite clearly: What we are discussing today in the European Union – that is, between 26 countries; if the UK does not participate, we have to take note of this; we are sorry, but there are also 26 others who are participating – is that we really become a fiscal union. To a fiscal union, therefore, because everyone has to comply with the rules that are being set up together. It can no longer be tolerated that a case like Greece is repeated. In the future, we will have to take care of it through contract texts – and at the end of this month – that a fiscal union means that everyone will be in one line. [[Abg. Strache: That is, popular expropriation will continue! That means you want further expropriation!]] We set common goals, we establish common rules, and we have strong sanctions for those who do not comply with the rules. These three points must be clearly expressed in the Fiscal Union. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Now these discussions, including the texts of the Treaties, are beginning to become very real. There are drafts that are already available to us, there are works that are being carried forward very strongly within the framework of the 26 as well. I hope that at the end of the month, at this summit, the 26 will have the first results so that we can quickly go into the deepening of the Treaty texts so that we can quickly ratify it, because this is the prerequisite that we can really help to break through this stability union in Europe, which is indeed carrying common fiscal policy elements. What do we want to work on? . We want to work to create a Europe that will meet other demands in the future, a Europe in which every individual and every one of us will be the best to achieve the success of the whole. The overall view must be there, but also the effort of each and every individual to contribute to it. You can't talk to others anymore, but everyone has to work on themselves so that it can succeed. Secondly, It must be a Europe in which the right of the stronger one is not valid, but in which this mutual recklessness is no longer a place. It is also particularly important for the promotions to take a different approach. Thirdly, It must be a Europe that remains true to the European model of life – this life model, which really distinguishes us from other continents and economies and which we have lived well in Austria. Fourth: It must be a Europe in which global co-responsibility also plays a crucial role. I am always convinced that this Europe must be much more united outside. But it must also be, fifthly, a Europe that does not live at the expense of the future – that is, we are again on the issue of debt crisis, which is what we are in terms of resource consumption. It must be a Europe which also takes this environmental idea into account differently from today. This is a Europe for which it is worth fighting. This is a Europe in which we see that there is a good future for Austria, for other countries, and if we work together, we can reach this Europe. [[Intrusion of the Abg. New builder.]] I am convinced, ladies and gentlemen, that every crisis has a chance. In Austria, we take this opportunity to put Austria on healthy legs, and in Europe we have to eliminate structural defects and work on a Europe that has a very good future. Then, I am sure, the Austrian-rich citizens will fully support us.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e10295	As already mentioned in the current hour, participants in the current European hour now have a speaking time of 5 minutes each. Mrs Magnette has now come to speak. Muttons. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e10319	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! I expressly welcome the fact that we are holding a detailed debate on the future of Europe today and are also discussing whether the EU is sufficiently prepared to deal with the financial and economic crisis. In order to be able to conduct such a discussion, of course, we have to ask ourselves the question of what are the real reasons that have led to this financial and economic crisis, because if one does not get the point, then one can very quickly draw wrong conclusions and come to wrong answers. Surprisingly, I find a statement in the last opinion of Standard & Poor’s, which has been mentioned today. That's what it says, among other things: “We therefore believe that a reform process based on one-sided austerity could be ineffective.” This statement, ladies and gentlemen, which Standard & Poor’s has written down there, is therefore surprising because an US rating agency itself comes to the realization that savings alone are obviously not a cure and that the cause of the crisis must not be seen in debt alone. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dolinschek.]] A policy that knows only sparing measures for crisis management does not solve a crisis, we know, but perhaps makes it worse. It must therefore always be socially fair. It must be saved, but socially fair, and always in combination with growth-enhancing measures. [[Abg. Kickl: How in Greece!]] In addition to saving, it is therefore equally important to take active steps. We need an overall concept. In other words, fiscal consolidation measures must be accompanied by consistent financial market regulation and sustainable investment. Just as we have taken common steps for a balanced budget, we must now also take steps towards a more social and democratic Europe. That is to say, we must make extensive reforms of the financial markets in Europe through measures such as stricter and more efficient supervision of financial markets. We need a more stringent control of the rating agencies. There is also the question of whether we should not set up European rating agencies. We need to tighten the rules on equity and ensure that the financial industry is fully re-established in its real economic function, which is to return to its core competence and not lose in any speculation. Secondly, which is particularly important: We need a Europe-wide approach to new jobs and new economic growth. We all know that employment and the economy are two fundamental factors to create stable households, because fewer unemployed people also mean less social expenditure for the state, more workers mean stronger demand for economic goods and thus more and more government revenue. We must act here in the light of the rising unemployment rates in many EU countries. Especially when we look at the unimaginably high unemployment rates among young people in the EU – we are talking about up to 45 percent here –: It has to be done quickly! There are already measures envisaged and proposed in the Europe 2020 strategy. We must not risk that a whole generation of young people across Europe will lose confidence in the future. And in this context, I wonder: Why don't we come to creative solutions? For example, why do we not think about measures such as the mandatory EU-wide introduction of maximum tolerance limits in unemployment? – That would be a clear commitment that workers should not pay for the mistakes of the financial markets. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I therefore believe that it is important and it is right to reflect on changes in the European institutions – there is no doubt about that – but we must ask ourselves what these institutions should do for people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e10368	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Lopatka. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e10389	Madam President. Foreign Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! What does the debt crisis show us? – The debt crisis shows us that not only do we need action here in Austria, but the European Community as a whole is required to do something. But the crucial point now is not to discuss saving, the crucial point is competitiveness. In terms of competitiveness, this European Union will have to prove itself! Because that's the point: Only if we remain competitive will we be able to secure jobs, and only then will we be able to stand in this international fight for sales markets. When it comes to China and these new emerging countries, the so-called BRICS countries, Europe must remain strong. And I'll tell you something, too. Of course, we have a problem with excessive indebtedness. And, Klubobmann Cap, because once again you got into the old moth box – well, that's the old moth box, broken because of it. That's nothing new, Klubobmann Cap! I would like to say one thing to you: I know many who have been broken because they had too many debts; but I don't know anyone who's been cut off. I'll tell you that. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter:... Deutsche Reich!]] [[Abg. Dr. Cap:... Hitler!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] And this excessive indebtedness, Mr Matznetter, would actually have to make a headbreak to your group, because we have a large debt mountain. And if we here think we can give up reforms – on necessary reforms – then we are on the way to wood. It is a hundred percent right what has been mentioned here by the Deputy Chancellor, namely that we are all called for – and I do not mean just the government coalition, since I mean the whole House – to make our contribution to implement these reforms. And we are already putting the latte up if we want to introduce this debt brake together in the constitutional rank. [[Abg. Kickl: You pushed the Constitution away from the last budget! The Constitution was so much for you!]] You too, Member Kickl, are cordially invited to make your contribution here. You are cordially invited! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] A point has not yet been raised. The situation as a whole will not be easier for us. Why? – Thanks be to God we have increased life expectancy due to this European model of our health services, the improvements in the workplace as a whole. And, of course, this demographic development will also lead to additional headaches when it comes to financing our pension system. That is why we are massively required here. And why must Austria be more interested than other countries in Europe as a whole? – Because, as a small export-oriented economy, we have benefited much more from this Europe that is growing together in recent years than everyone else. [[Call for the call.]] – That’s not what I’m saying, McKinsey recently introduced this study, only last week. No second country within the Eurogroup could benefit from the introduction of the euro as much as Austria. Austria's number one. [[New call.]] – Not the corporations, but the individual workers who are not unemployed. We have the lowest unemployment rate in Europe. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Why do we have the lowest unemployment rate in Europe? [[Abg. Dolinschek: Because we have so many early pensioners!]] [[Abg. Street: Earlypensionists and AMS outlay!]] – I tell you: Six out of ten euros we earn in Austria through exports. Our export ratio has increased from 40 percent to 60 percent since we were in the European Union. Isn't that positive? – That’s something very positive! Because the most important thing for people is to have work. And we can only ensure these jobs by continuing to have the opportunity to remain an export-intensive country. 55 percent of our exports go to the euro area alone. It is very important for Austria to see how these euro-states are going and how they continue in Europe as a whole. In the past year, where much was said about the crisis, the least notice was that our exports increased by 12 percent and we are back where we were in 2008. We must do everything we can to continue this successful path. But we also need the reforms here in the country.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e10515	Mr Vilimsky has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e10536	Madam President. High house! Mr. Spindelegger, what you have allowed yourself to do here today, represents an incredible provocation, namely to want to push the opposition parties into the shoes here, that we are to blame for the fact that Austria has lost the Triple A. [[Abg. Dr. Bartenstein: With guilt!]] You have heard that the rating agencies have given you a debt brake as the last vehicle. They came to Austria excitedly and said: We need a debt brake! So far, so good. The Freedom Party would have been willing to negotiate it. [[President Neugebauer shall take over the chairmanship.]] What did you do? . You have just stopped your Baby Secretary of State to draw up a concept for more democracy, and you have not managed to discuss it with our Federal Party partner or with representatives of our group until today. [[Abg. Dr Bartenstein: “Baby State Secretary”?]] That's not how it's done! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Vice chancellor Dr. Spindelegger: This has failed at your partyobmann's appointments!]] – Should the appointments of our supervisor fail? It has failed with nothing! We made several offers. [[New interim remark from Vice Chancellor Dr. Spindelegger.]] And I'll tell you something: You make 9 billion more debt, and five days later you say: Help, we need a debt brake! And for weeks you are unable to agree within this government on a single measure, on a structural measure, on a fiscal measure. To this day, there are no measures through you. Well, who's going to be so crazy to say we're reducing the debt, not knowing what you want to reduce these debts?- Oh, my God! You should understand how you intend to renovate this state! We are ready to negotiate with you about this too. I found it interesting that at the beginning of his speech, Mr Klubobmann Kopf left critical words on the European Union out of the picture for the first time. This is an interesting story, because it is usually not to be heard from the mouths of the ÖVP. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr Klubobmann Kopf, today you are Austria as the largest profiter of this common currency, and in reality Austria has had the highest rate of inflation for 18 years. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Head.]] And if a person has a €1,000 at the beginning of the year, due to inflation – not by the most tricky official, but by the actual result of the goods of daily needs, namely officially declared 7.8 percent, it is likely to be real beyond 10 percent – at the end of the year probably 5 or 6 percent less purchasing power. [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: Since the euro!]] [[Abg. Weakness: Value Stability!]] The increase in salaries is also lower. And the most important function that a currency should fulfil, namely to be at least purchasing power storage, is not fulfilled by the euro. While you continue to worship the euro in a religious way by the ÖVP today, it is already in all mouths, which is now international debate. The “Daily Telegraph” tells you the exchange rate rates in the case of the Euro-Collap, “The World” directs you that the Euroreturn screen will not work in this form. [[The speaker keeps these magazines up to date.]] But even more worrying than the purchasing power loss situation of the euro is for me a further development in Europe. There was Mr Papandreou, the Greek Prime Minister, who negotiated a heavy package of savings with EU troika. He came home and said: I want to present this package to my people. I want to have my people's mandate to implement this saving course. – It didn't last three days until he left. The same was the case in Slovakia with Mr Sulik, President-in-Office of the Council, who was not willing to take this rescue shield. Three days later, he was elected President of Parliament. [[Intrusion of the Abg. New builder.]] Do you know who the new representatives of this Europe are today after they have taken away Berlusconi in Italy? – It is Mr Monti, longtime consultant to Goldman Sachs. Do you know what Mr Draghi, ECB President, was? – Vice-President of Goldman Sachs Europe. Do you know what the new bankruptcy administrator and de facto Prime Minister of Greece, Mr Papademos, was? This was the head of the National Bank in the years when, together with Goldman Sachs, the balance sheet fraud was committed to lie this Greece into Europe. [[Abg. Strache: These are exactly the ones that have introduced this to us!]] This is where a network of Goldman Sachs is beginning to spread in Europe, and all that is there is in democratic efforts, where a package of savings is to be voted on in Greece for the first time, these politicians who are committed to it are being re-graded by these political elites. That must not happen! [[I should like to congratulate the FPÖ and the honourable Member Bucher and Tadler.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. stupid.]] If you are talking about democracy today, as far as I am concerned, I am telling you about democracy only one thing: It is all right to be able to negotiate this, but if you do not agree that questions of the European Union should be put to the people, we say: That's not it! And if you want votes and results not to be considered binding here, because the people could be wrong, we say: That's not the way it is! If not with us from the Freedom Party! We want this Europe to return to the principles of freedom, democracy and self-determination. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e10698	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Van der Bellen. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e10719	Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! I haven't heard such a primitive polemic from the government bank, as before in the speech of Foreign Minister and Vice President Spindelegger – if ever. [[It was in favour of Greens and BZÖ, as well as of members of the FPÖ.]] It is really unheard of to base the opposition parties on a flat-rate basis that they would not be willing to reform until the last Austrian does not have a cent on the savings book. That's really the last thing! [[Congratulation with Greens, BZÖ and FPÖ.]] If you have to be offered by a minister, I wonder what else you should be offered! Mr Vice-Kanzler, Foreign Minister, you mentioned that there are drafts for an international international treaty on the so-called Fiscal Union within the European Union and that it is soon to be ratified by Austria. I must let you down on this important point. I don't think this contract, as it is now, is a signatory, and I'm going to explain to you why. I would also point out to you, Mr Vice-Chancellor, that the European Parliament is in its overwhelming majority against this draft Treaty, as it is now present in the third version. I have the draft resolution of yesterday's EP. I do not doubt that this resolution will continue as well, for it is signed by Elmar Brok, the head of the European People's Party, who is signed by the heads of the political groups of the Social Democrats, Liberals and Greens. In this resolution, massive criticism of this so-called Fiscal Union Treaty is being practised. I'm not going to go into it in detail now. It is only two pages, I recommend it to the government parties to read what your colleagues and colleagues in the European Parliament have to say. This Treaty essentially provides for two things. I'm trying to make it as short as possible. The so-called structural deficit is not to exceed 0.5% of GDP and a kind of arbitration court is set up, the European Court of Justice, to decide in disputes between the Parties. Mr Vice-Kanzler, I strongly recommend that you read Article 8 of this draft Treaty together with Article 3. For the colleagues who have had no time to look at this, I say briefly what it is about – I read it briefly in English, it is just in the draft before me –: ‘The judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union’ – i.e. the judgment of the European Court of Justice – ‘shall be binding on the parties in the procedure, which shall take the necessary measures to comply with the judgment within a period to be decided by said Court’. That is to say, one delivers itself to the judgment of the European Court of Justice, and one undertakes – “man” the State, Austria, in the case of Austria – to follow the instructions of the European Court of Justice within a certain time limit set by the ECJ. Ladies and gentlemen, this is nothing but the advocacy of the National Council's budget – so that we know what this is all about! [[Congratulation with Greens and FPÖ.]] Any fiscal policy measure, whether in fiscal terms, whether expenditure policy, yes, the budget itself is known to be a federal financial law, which is in principle subject to the review by the VfGH. And if this is transferred to an international arbitration court, it is indifferent whether that is the ECJ or the District Court of Olmütz. It is an international arbitration court to which we deliver the budget authority of the National Council. That clearly has a constitutional character, ladies and gentlemen. You can do that right now or you can't do it well, but it has a different constitutional character. And if the government believes that it can, by a simple majority, ratify a treaty that implies a constitutional change in Austria, then I do not know what is going on with our constitution. [[Abg. Kickl: Yes!]] I think that this is impossible and unconstitutional, which is apparent here. [[Consistency with greens and FPÖ as well as with the Abg. Hagen.]] This has nothing at all to do with the clarity of whether Article 3, where these provisions are developed with the deficit and so on, comes into constitutional status in Austria or not. That's a separate question. That is also an important question, but a separate question. I am referring to the relationship between Article 8 and the National Council's budgetary sovereignty as an important constitutional provision. And I am also concerned, that can also be said about what is with the relationship between the Austrian Constitutional Court and the ECJ. In this case, the courts compete over Austrian constitutional law. In the first draft, the national courts in Article 8 are still inside, and in the last draft they have fallen out again. What does that mean? Does the Austrian Federal Government have an opinion on this? Is there even a position, an Austrian position on this draft treaty? – We haven't heard a word about that so far. [[The speaker shall keep a document up to date.]] By the way, ladies and gentlemen, only to make this clear to us: ‘structural deficit’ is not a clearly defined size. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] However, this is stated here in the 10th percent of GDP, in the Austrian law on a hundredth percent of GDP. This is a statistical structure that is difficult to calculate. You have to calculate the potential output, so to speak, you have to calculate what would have been the deficit in normal capacity utilization. This is highly complex in economics. Who will calculate that? The European Commission? - Good, but then you'll have to write that down! That's also a very important thing. Who determines this size, which will then have a mandatory effect on measures in Austria? These are all constitutional provisions. And if you believe that by simple majority, simply to be able to bring it about in no time, at the end of the month or in February, then you are shrapneled!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e10827	Next speaker: Mr. Klubobmann Bucher. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e10849	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! On your statement, I must come back again, namely that the opposition has prevented us from deciding on a constitutional debt brake. That is really absurd, Mr Vice-Chancellor! I don't know how well You now know the ÖVP or the ÖVP you know, but I can read something to you as a memory support. Our demand was – only once again – that we agree with the debt brake because we want it because we think it is right because we have requested it two and a half years ago, provided that we reduce the debt, through reforms – and not through new taxes. That is why we have called for a tax and tax base. That's what we asked for. And I read: They called it an unfulfilled demand! They have referred to our demand as unfulfilled in the information brochure of the Economic Federation. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] That is, I think, some sub-organisation of the ÖVP. There's inside: Down taxes. Growth up. Reduce the tax and tax rate by 2020. [[The speaker will keep the above brochure up to date.]] This is, in the end, a call from the Economic and Social Union, Mr Vice-Chancellor. And now, of course, I'm justifiably wondering: Where did you hide your conscience? We would help you find it, because this is immense what you are giving from the government bank! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grosz.]] It is also unworthy for a member of the Federal Government to make such statements at all, here in public, and to present them as an unfulfilled requirement. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The reverse is clear and clear, namely that if you are against our central demand, you are in favour of new and higher taxes and say that this is unfulfilled what the BZÖ wants to say: That is why the Commission's proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to turnover taxes is a matter for the Member States. That's the reverse, Mr. Vice-Chancellor Spindelegger. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Please do not dream of this socialist centralism, which comes to us with this Fiscal Union, with this economic union! I warn you, this is the collective destruction of the European Union. As a conservative, you should be able to assess what this means for Austria. That is why I do not understand that the conservatives are also going on this trail and wish for this socialist one-stop state. That cannot be your vision for Europe, Mr Vice-Chancellor! The only conclusion I draw from this mistaken tactic can only be that you, just as your colleagues on the government bank, do not trust yourself, to reorganise our country and to find a concept for Europe; and You therefore comply with the Brussels decisions, go in and out there under the carpet, pick up your decisions out there, and have no independent opinion on yourself – and this is to our sovereignty. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Mr Vice-Chancellor, think They ask what our parents and grandparents have done, how they have built our land out of the heaps of debris, what they have done! That's what you're pledged to do now at the Brussels altar, and you're selling our sovereignty. [[In the case of the BZÖ, as well as the members of the FPÖ.]] That's the reality, and you should get familiar with it once! It's a terrible thing to follow this blind socialism craze, and that of a conservative on the government bank. You didn't understand things correctly, that must be the conclusion. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grosz.]] And with regard to the depreciation and downgrading of our credit quality: Now to blame the opposition, that is immense! Yeah, the last thing I heard was: The rating agencies are guilty, the neighbors are guilty, the gardener is guilty. - Yeah, everyone's to blame. Finally, start looking for the blame on the government bank! You've spent the money in the last 25 years. [[In the case of the BZÖ, as well as the members of the FPÖ.]] For 25 years, the ÖVP was in the government continuously. They are the debt, the record creditors of this second Republic. This is the record couple sitting behind me, my dear ladies and gentlemen. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Bartenstein.]] They are wasting all the capital that our parents and grandparents have generated. They pledge the future of our youth. This, ladies and gentlemen, we want to prevent with our “paid paid” that, ladies and gentlemen, is responsible thinking and action, and that is responsible policy.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e10973	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Matznetter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e11005	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! High house! We have an hour of Europe on a very serious issue of the European Union, and I am grateful to Klubobmann for having already mentioned this in the introduction: We will have to make decisive reforms to the democratisation of the European Union because the European Union's responsibility in this crisis is increasing. The discussion here can be conducted on a very factual level. I also ask that the concerns raised by Professor Van der Bellen, for example, should naturally be addressed. At the end of the day, we must come to a treaty that will ensure all these chewings, including taking into account the sovereignty of those democratically legitimate institutions that have to decide on the budget. I'd just ask you: Professor, you've got six. The 10/EUBTG is quoted in January 2012. ==References====External links== January 2012 a new draft 38, with which this is already outside. I just wanted to add that. That means the fear that there will be a decommissioning is unwarranted. But now on the core problem: Can the European Union cope with this crisis in today's situation and with today's structure, and where are the dangers? First point: In fact, the European Union is struggling because of a lack of construction – Karlheinz Kopf is right. The main decisions fall into structures where the EU-27 has to deal with particular interests until night, where the British Prime Minister there, like an appointed agent of the financial markets, is acting solely on the interests of those who still want to carry out billions of speculations without restrictions, who reject any form of regulation that rejects any form of financial transaction tax because they earn billions. This structure will not be able to solve the problem. That is why we will need to deepen the European Union. And if a fiscal union comes, it will have to be a kind of fiscal union, which we must be very careful to ensure that the democratic rights of European citizens are respected, in this case by the European Parliament together with the national parliaments in the procedures under the Lisbon Treaty. - That's the simple part. And then there's a huge danger on this continent: These are the screams – you have just heard such a contribution from my previous speaker from this pult – that play out the national card and pay with sayings such as “genuine!” and “We solve everything in your own country, the rest should leave, we don’t want to have dictatorships from Brussels!” and thus destroy and weaken the resolution of the crisis. [[Abg. Hagen: Hello!]] [[Abg. Bucher: (keeping a newspaper article in height) Take a position on what it says!]] Now an example from the neighbouring country, namely Viktor Orbán, whom you have just defended, Mr Bucher. This is a classic example of how the continent is being damaged, to the detriment of the European Union, but also to the damage of the country of Hungary and Hungary itself, which suffers bitterly. We do not need this kind of policy in any European country if it can lead to disaster at the end. We have experienced during the last great world economic crisis where a purely savings policy leads, and when mass unemployment was there, the only answer was the national map. I mean, that should be enough for a continent that we don't play such experiments again. But you – and now I deliberately point to two opposition parties here – play a bit milder perhaps than in other countries with this card, including us. [[pointing towards FPÖ and BZÖ]] [[Abg. Bucher: With the card of the house mind!]] You play with the nationalist card: The Greeks should get nothing more – enough paid! They start with the same recipes, namely those of a Mr Orbán who sets the tax, the flat tax by 16 percent, but has no forint to pay. At the end of the day, our taxpayers need to help through the IMF and the European Union. And you want to do the same thing here! [[Abg. Bucher: The World Bank!]] Exactly, the World Bank criticises that we are entering into a weakness period. And that is why the best policy is a policy as it makes the Austrian Federal Government, namely to implement structural reforms, to increase efficiency on the part of expenditure, but also to renovate revenue on the part of the Austrian Government. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bucher.]] I remind you: In this last world economic crisis, it did not work in Germany until the “Brunen Shirts” were marched there and the Reich Chancellor Brüning came with the savings program. It didn't work with us with Austro-$. But it worked somewhere else, above the Atlantic. There a pre-paged Roosevelt has “hopped” how it is A “New Deal for the American People”. [[Abg. Ing. Hofer: New Deal!]] Do you know what that was, Mr. Colleague? – President Roosevelt – that’s right – has dramatically increased taxes, the peak tax rate was up to 90 percent, but he has invested in streets, schools, universities, hospitals, all around the continent. And in four years unemployment was gone before the war. We should take this as an example! We will continue this policy: Investments in infrastructure, education, social affairs, but also taxes from those who have enough. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e11119	Next speaker: Mrs Tamandl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e11141	Mr President. Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Bucher, you said earlier that we were solely guilty of debt. Considering that in this legislative period of 121 laws, we have only one third passed as a majority of governments and two thirds of them were those where at least one opposition party was in favour, and that 25 percent of all the laws were passed unanimously – so you too were in favour – then one must say that you too can assume responsibility for what you have decided here in Parliament. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bucher.]] But now it's up to you. – It is not only a debt crisis in Europe, but also a crisis of trust. And I believe – and that is what all economic researchers also advise us – that we should not make budget consolidations with individual measures, with any symbolic measures, but we should take long-term and sustainable measures. It has been seen how states which have done their homework before the crisis have come through the crisis. Austria, with regard to the evolution of the government debt ratio, was about 60 percent of the debt ratio between 2001 and 2006. I remember that is actually the Maastricht criterion for the debt ratio, and if we had complied with this, even within the European Union, in monetary union, we do not need a brake on debt at European level today. The question now arises: What did we do under Wolfgang Schüssel? – Wolfgang Schüssel has made very, very courageous reforms in his time of government. He didn't always look at the next elections. This was also written in the main book of opposition: that in truth, with populism, with the attempt to beat party-political little money, one cannot reorganize. We see this in Greece: People go to the street there, there are mass demonstrations. Yes, Mr Grosz, but let us agree: [[Abg. Grosz: This is a clear criticism of the current ÖVP that this made the bowl better!]] If we don't do our homework in Austria, then it can happen that we get down in our credit rating again – and we don't want to! In recent years, since 2006, we have raised the debt from 60 to 74 percent. Why? – Because we – the Minister of Finance has already said it today – had to deal with electoral sugars, with electoral conflicts, even inside here, in September 2008. [[Abg. Hagen: Who was the Minister of Finance at the time? A Mr. Molterer, ÖVP!]] Of course, it is very, very difficult to bring it down again or to take it back, but we have to work on it. And we have to save. If someone thinks that you should raise taxes, that this might have failed, I say to him: It must be concluded that with party-political populism we are holding each other back! There must be a national epaulment – not only with us, but also with the other European states that are really in debt! I now come to speak about the homework that has been done in other countries so that they can get through the crisis well. In Sweden, for example, the debt ratio has been reduced, even before the crisis to a level of 36.3 percent. Whenever it is said that we need structural reforms and a reduction in early pensions – we are absolutely world champions there; Günter Stummvoll has already said today that the Germans will retire three years later than we do; 1.2 billion € costs us annually – then I will tell you: But then there must also be appropriate measures! Sweden, for example, also has a so-called Malus system for companies. That means: If the companies send their employees to early retirement, they must also make a contribution to this. I mean, we can learn something from that. But we must also support each other with good models in the European Union. It must finally be over for the opposition to make any queer demands. It should at last think seriously about structural reforms and think where it can go. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Then: Only together will we do it! The Austrians know that we have to save, and they are also and stand for it.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e11222	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Hofer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e11243	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! My previous speaker said two interesting things: First of all, that Sweden is a model – perhaps also Sweden’s monetary policy is a model; one should look at it more closely, consider Sweden’s currency – and second, that the EIA’s bowl would have been better than the Spindelegger’s EIA. I can't judge this, you have to look at it more closely within the ÖVP. [[In the case of the FPÖ, as well as the BZÖ Members.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the financial crisis, the economic crisis has ultimately also led to a crisis of democracy. And if you say that the idea of the liberals, of more direct democracy in Austria, would be unrealistic, you can't do that: I think that we are going in a wrong direction here by believing that we can resolve the crisis in Europe with less democracy, with a state of emergency, with a “war-right light” where governments are being exchanged that do not fit that the people want to question, where they are trying to enforce with compulsion and without democracy and national elements what they want in Europe, what they want in central positions. I think that is the wrong way, and that is why, if you want our votes, there is no way by which to ensure more direct democracy in Austria. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This is also the only way for the citizen to protect himself from incompetent politicians and from political untruths. Then: What has been promised to us before accession to the European Union? Remember! It was promised: The schilling remains! – As we know today, this was a smooth untruth. It was promised: It will all be cheaper, the purchasing power will rise! – With no exception, the purchasing power stagnates, ladies and gentlemen. The Austrians today can afford less and less about their euro. That's a fact! It has also been promised that small countries like Austria can have their voices in Europe and prevent decisions with a veto. – Now I ask you: How often did Austria pick up this veto card in decisions that hurt us? Did not Foreign Minister Spindelegger just a few weeks ago mean that he was in favour of abolishing the principle of unanimity? That is to say, as a net payer, Austria will be able to resist difficult decisions against our country. Is this not, ladies and gentlemen, a policy that is directed against Austria against its own people?- Oh, my God! [[Interference of Vice-Cancellor Dr. Spindelegger.]] Please, Mr. Vice-Chancellor. [[Vice-President Dr Spindelegger: I said that in the case of cross-border police cooperation, the principle of unanimity should fall!]] “In the case of cross-border police cooperation,” says Mr Vice-Chancellor, the principle of unanimity should only fall there. But I'm telling you, Mr Vice-Chancellor, you're sitting in the back there like a schoolbub you've caught up with when you stand up and get a critique from a party, your face falls down and you're seriously offended. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the FPÖ]] [[Vice Chancellor Dr. Spindelegger: What does not correspond to the truth!]] Mr Vice-Chancellor, if your representatives say today about the opposition's speaker's seat, how to make policy better in Austria, and that we absolutely need the debt brake and that debt making is so bad, please, you shout: Is the thief holding?- Oh, my God! – You have implemented all of this into decades of responsibility in Austria! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] They made the debts – and not the opposition! That too must be underlined. And that's right, Klubobmann Bucher, who made this very clear. [[New welcome to the FPÖ.]] If you want to pay Austrian money earned in Greece today, I say – and I am a friend of the Greeks and the citizens in Greece – that: This country is badly managed, because we know what's going on there. Name: 30 billion € in taxes will not be lifted in Greece, they will simply not be abolished by the financial authorities. There are administrative councils where you can earn a good sandwich, for example a lake in Greece, which has been dried out for a hundred years. The Board of Directors is still there, and you can still earn it. There are strong arms investments there for the largest army in Europe, estimated per capita: 7 billion euros! And while a milk - looking minister in Austria is breaking the German army, there is investment in submarines, in Fregaten, in combat tanks. – And we should finance all of this, ladies and gentlemen?- Oh, my God! Where is the money?, they ask themselves in Greece. – Pedophiles, cleptomans, fetishists, sadomasochists are also classified as disabled people and are granted benefits from the state. There are so many blind people in no other country as in Greece – not because they are really blind, but because they claim to be blind, so that they can then pay for funding and money. Only the really disabled people in Greece are poor, because they are really bad. But the others are working hard. I do not want such a policy to be supported with our tax money! We cannot and must not finance this, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We are in favour of European integration, we are in favour of a common Europe, but we want another Europe, a subsidiary Europe, where important things are being settled together. An example: Safety standards for nuclear power plants. There's no such thing as that. But there is a very thick tractor seat regulation. That is important to Europe, ladies and gentlemen. For us, Mr Vice-Chancellor – the German Chancellor is not here today – it is essential for us that, in the case of important decisions, including in the case of Europe, the citizens can be involved and the citizens themselves can decide. [[Abg. New builder: He's never here!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e11392	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Musiol. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e11413	Ladies and gentlemen! Values listeners in the hall and also at home or in the offices where our debate is transferred! I don't know what to do first. Some comments have been made here by colleagues, by previous speakers, and a good debate is characterized by the fact that one also responds to these announcements and statements and not only presents one's own ideas. I'll start with my last previous speaker. Mr Hofer! It is surprising that FPÖ has discovered the topic of “direct democracy” for itself. I'm deliberately saying that. I do not want to wipe it out of the table, but it is surprising if one has pursued the policy of FPÖ, especially its policy in recent years on the question of democracy. First of all, As a FPÖ in your organization, you are not necessarily the most democratically organized party. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] But let's take this aside! I knew that's gonna trigger excitement now. Secondly, Neither in the Austrian Convention, nor in all the other discussions that followed, have you emerged as a direct Democrat. [[Call the FPÖ: That's not true!]] Now I'm doing good to you: You can learn! Okay, let's assume that you have learned, but I wonder how on the one hand you can demand a strengthening of direct democracy – and on the other hand, you have not only a discussion partner, but also a fellow fighter on your side, namely me – and on the other hand, two colleagues from your group here could call the educational people's desire, which over 382,000 people have signed, a “boiler” two months ago. [[Abg. Ing. Hofer: That was no popular vote!]] Excuse me, this is an insult to all the people who take the way to the community, to the magistrate to declare their political interests! But you have nothing better to do than insult and defamate these people here. [[Abg. Neubauer: That's not true! It's a nonsense!]] In view of this, I cannot lose your fight for direct democracy. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Dr. Jarolim.]] I have to tell you, too. To present your fight for direct democracy when it comes to European issues is also very transparent! Why Come You do not also have concrete proposals, as we do, about how we could actually make our budget a more balanced budget? For example, the asset tax. [[Abg. Neubauer: You're not in the committees at all!]] - Because you're running client policy! Because every time you take up higher taxes, actually do redistribution and not just talk about it, don't get up, but sit down. That's your problem! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ing. Hofer.]] And now to the next colleague, Mr Lopatka. – You said you didn’t know a state that went on here through savings, there was no state that broke down. That's from the old clothes collection. That was misunderstandingd now. [[Abg. Neubauer: Just like everything so far!]] First: Just because it's not known to you, doesn't it exist?!, and second – and there you could almost quote a former German chancellor –: It must be your history! 1931 to 1933: World economic crisis. That was exactly the point! There are many historians and economists who find that savings led to problems at the time. And many economists who have been in the media in the last few days have also said that a too many savings, a saving over the measures leads to recession. [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: Who wants to save on the measures?]] This is exactly the problem of the current discussion: They confuse the theme “Save – Balanced Budget” with the topic of “guilt brake” or form a title that should not exist here. Yes, this idea comes from Europe, other states already have it. But you all know or should know very well that the debt brake is a technical vehicle, which does not at all lead to the fact that there are actually balanced budgets, socially fair, comprehensible, meaningful and climate protection, as well as other issues. On the contrary: If we are entering a debt brake in the constitutional rank, then we have, as it were, set ourselves on the drawing board on something – the problems that the colleague Van der Bellen has already raised – without ever being able to act again. It cannot be in the interest of a Parliament to be taken out of hand, not to be able to say: Our priority is education, our priority is climate protection, our priority is health, and there we will certainly not save! [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Donnerbauer.]] What you're doing is putting any terms in the room and also contributing to an undemocratic system. And that's where the statement of Klubobmann's head – he's not here now – surprises where he said we had a democratic deficit. [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign.]] . Yes, we have, because we pass the European Parliament. It is therefore all the more important not to agree to the debt brake in all the drafts that are now in place, but to really ensure that a democratic institution is maintained here and that democratic culture is preserved and not eroded. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e11552	Next speaker: Mr Scheibner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e11576	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Federal Minister, this current hour – and I quote the title again, because I think this one has lost a little in the current debate: “What does the current debt crisis mean for the future of Europe?” – has been initiated by your party. I have actually thought that you and your group are therefore also taking the opportunity to discuss with us today the future of the European Union and the line you have, which perhaps also has the Austrian Federal Government on this future issue of the European Union. I didn't hear much about it. Mr Klubobmann's head has said, yes, there have been mistakes in the past that the Eurozone should never have been the way it is. But at the same time, he makes the same mistake, namely that he calls on anyone who today criticises the situation of the current European Union and demands a fundamental reorganisation of this Union, as an anti-European, as – how did he say? – is narrow and harmful to Europe. I therefore believe that this should be at least one realization: It is not those who are critical of mistakes and problems in Europe that are damaging to the idea of Europe, but those euphorics who rescind any criticism and speak only bureaucracies and those structures that are present. [[BZÖ and FPÖ are welcome.]] Ladies and gentlemen, it must finally be recognized that this European Union's placebo policy – and there are, in fact, all 27 who are responsible, including Austria – has not brought anything. I hear again and again the examples where arguments are made: Where a fire is, you have to delete it! – Yes, but one must finally localize and establish the arsonists, who repeatedly activate the fire, which is eliminated with billions of taxpayers of European and Austrian citizens. If I only look at the figures available today, after it is always about Greece and one rescue shield after another, one package of measures after another to save Greece: What's the result? – The latest figures, Minister of State: The interest on Greek bonds, one-year-old Greek bonds, i.e. government bonds: 400 per cent, ladies and gentlemen, for one year's government bonds! 400 percent is required! And for ten years of government bonds almost 35 percent. 35 percent! No state in the world could serve such interest, not even Greece, whose economy is down. Are these the results of three years of European Union crisis policy for a small economy like Greece? We cannot really talk about success, but we must say that this crisis policy of the European Union is a single crisis, and we must finally go new ways to really deal with the crisis and not always close our eyes to the facts. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Mr Federal Minister, you have raised many points. What about the credit rating agencies? What about the European credit rating agency, which is being discussed so often? What about the control of the financial markets, where London and the UK are so opposed because they are doing good business with these financial transactions? What about the financial transaction tax? We were all unanimous in favour. What happened at the European level? Where are the coalitions of the smaller and medium-sized countries, perhaps under the leadership of Austria, to put pressure here? The democratic deficit has been addressed. Where is the European Parliament? The European Parliament has not played a role in this whole matter at all! Neither does the Council. Only two state politicians, two politicians, from France and Germany, namely Merkel and Sarkozy, determine – and all the others follow. I just described the results. It is not easy to have it used here in a discussion on tax increases – yes or no – but there is the question: What will Europe really be able to do in the future? We need a task discussion in Europe: What are the objectives and tasks of a future European Union? And after that, she should be oriented. – We have a concept! This can be supported or not, but the BZÖ has a concept in which we say that it is not possible to treat 27 different countries alike. We need a core Europe where those countries, wherever the population wants to do so, meet in the closest circle of European integration – with a common monetary policy, with a common security policy, perhaps also with at least a framework for a common economic policy – and only take advantage of all the other modules from it, and where we finally end up with placebos like that, for example, that we are now conducting accession negotiations with Turkey for many years, which can never end. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] It would probably be better to find tailor-made partnerships and to say, for example, in countries such as Greece: [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign]] If they cannot be in the common currency, then they must leave this single currency! This is an honest European policy that can give this continent and this European Union, which is so important to me, a future. Everything else is just a profit of time – and ultimately the taxpayer pays for solutions that only bring another crisis.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e11673	No one is reporting on this. I'll close the debate. [[11:45:45]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e11694	With regard to the negotiating items and their allocations, I refer to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] Application in accordance with § 69 para. 3 GOOD
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e12045	It is my request according to § 69 para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure to take the popular desire of the ‘Education Initiative’ at first reading in 1647. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this request to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously accepted. Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e12069	Before entering the agenda, Members of Parliament, Mr Brosz, colleagues, asked for the motion for a resolution 1807/A(E) tabled at the same time by Mr Brosz, colleagues on ORF: Party policy is out, genuine independence is pure, urgent. Under the Rules of Procedure, the request for urgent procedure will be discussed at 3 p.m. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e12090	It is proposed that the debate on points 5 to 9 of the agenda be summarized. Are objections raised? - That's not the case. Let's go into the agenda. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e12115	A consensus was reached between the members of the presidential conference on the duration of the debates. Accordingly, a day block time was agreed on 6 ‘Vienna hours’. There are therefore the following speaking times: SPÖ and ÖVP per 84 minutes, FPÖ 75 minutes, Green 66 minutes, BZÖ 63 minutes. I propose that the speaking time of each Member should be limited to 10 minutes per debate without club membership. We shall now proceed to the vote on the speaking time just presented. If you agree with the proposal, I would ask for a sign on this point. – This is unanimously accepted. [[11:47:27]] 1. Point Report of the Federal Government's Foreign Policy Committee on the 2010 Foreign and European Policy Report (III-250/1546, D.B.)
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e12163	I'll call the 1. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mr Hübner is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e12190	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Minister! The report is in-depth and informative, so it would be almost a fishermanship of foreign policy, but only almost. In reality, he is, of course, a “spindel of Almanach” of foreign policy because he misses one, and that is the objective, light and shadow comprehensive presentation of our foreign policy situation, the foreign policy environment and the foreign policy achievements of Austria. I believe that if something is called “report”, it must also be reported and should not try to present everything in the bright and pink light of absolute success, but should be able, at the European political level, whether at the Austrian level, to present the negative developments this year, and of these we have truly had more than enough in 2010. I should like to remind you once again: This is the year in which our Euro-Illusions have been placed, the Greek crisis has come to the light of Europe, the devaluations of the creditworthiness of individual countries have begun and our entire system has been led to the edge of the collapse – where it is still today, all the demands that we would be the main beneficiaries of the euro area, the introduction of the euro and the EU. In fact, today, coming from a hard currency zone around the D-Mark, we landed in a super soft currency zone with a currency in front of the collapse. And that is certainly not a success! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] For example, I should like to address the question of funding because it has been raised several times today. Both Mr Kopf and Mr Foreign Minister and Vice-Chancellor themselves have raised the issue, including with regard to the EU. The Minister has also said that there is a need for action here that there should not be a right of strengthening, no elbow tactics and so on. However, if you read the 2010 report on Cohesion and Structural Funds – in addition to agriculture, the main areas of subsidies in the European Union – you will see nothing of criticism or of distanced representation. It'll be cheered! It is welcomed that one third of the EU funds are in structural and cohesion funds. It is not mentioned that, according to all economic analyses, these two funds bear a grumbled level of debt to economic problems in the south. Much of the bubble formation, much of the national economic imbalances, is explained by the fact that in the case of Greece, for example, net subsidies of €4 billion per year have flown into this economy, which has resulted in price and wage inflation that has permanently disrupted the national economic balance. It is also welcomed that Austria would be a great profiter of these funds – of course, because Austria is always a profiter in EU matters, at least if one follows the yearbook of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. In fact, Austria will receive about €5 billion from these funds from 2007 to 2013, as the Ministry predicts. But this is not a great success for a net payer. That only means that we get some or a smaller part of the money we pay in there. On average we pay 3 billion plus/minus and get back, depending on the view of things, between 2.1 and 2.3 billion. It can't be a big deal for a net payer if he gets a part back from the title of the subsidy. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I miss the critical approach. This system is missing! There has to be a change to a system where, in my opinion, we are paying a net contribution instead of paying a gross contribution and then returning 70 percent over a huge EU bureaucracies. There must be no such thing as that. But there are also many other things. Let us take, for example, the problem of the exemption from VAT of all persons accountable to the diplomatic service. This cannot be the case in an economic, monetary and future fiscal union, that, even in Europe, mutual persons who are granted diplomatic status are exempt from VAT payments. There are hundreds of millions of people in Europe who escape the Fiscus, including huge amounts in Austria. We Members of the Liberal and Reformist Party have repeatedly urged this in the committees. The Minister refuses to raise this issue only to speak across Europe. The last argument in the Committee was: Well, if we do, maybe we don't get enough young people for diplomatic service. – This is an insult to all diplomats, if you assume that they only go to diplomatic service, or as the main motive in diplomatic service, because they are exempt from VAT when they buy a car or perfume in another European country. That can't be. We cannot now put an end to the Vienna Treaty on the Law of Diplomatic Practices, but we could, at least on one side, refrain from applying the exemptions for European diplomats in the European field in Europe. All of this is not indicated. It is suggested that the Foreign Minister met seven times in 2010 with the Sudanese Foreign Minister. Whether this is so important for Austria? Whether this is our focus? Whether our interests are safeguarded? [[Abg. Scheibner: But that was very useful! But that was a good thing!]] The book uses the beautiful word, which would increase the visibility of Austria. And according to the Foreign Minister, Sudan is bordering on Gramatneusidl or is nearby because it means that the criticism of the seven times meeting of the Foreign Minister would limit foreign policy to Gramatneusudl. Also interesting. But there is an interesting information that I lack, and that would be with which apparatus and with which persons of the foreign service fulfills its tasks. That would be very interesting. And in the light of the discussion of the last days, it would also be interesting to find out who is carrying a diplomat passport in the future. Therefore, as an incentive for enlargement and a closer-to-citizen design of this annual report, we will submit a request which I can briefly read: [[Quoted print version removed]] In view of the forthcoming regime, which includes active parliamentarians, women of ministers and the like, it would certainly be high time to think about such a change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e12259	The motion for a resolution tabled is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e12310	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Lopatka. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e12332	Mr President. Foreign Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! If Mr Hübner concludes that only the foreign and European political report considers that Austria has benefited from the euro, I can quote him from the “world” of last Sunday. This title: ‘Austria benefits most from the euro’. I can also provide you with the entire McKinsey report. It is indeed true that it was right to introduce this Community currency. Despite all the problems we have, this study clearly shows that even Greece, in the face of all the problems, does not have a minus because they are with the euro, but that the euro has managed in recent years to contribute much to the gain of prosperity. – That’s the first thing I want to tell you. And the second: If we see the euro compared to other currencies, the euro is quite stable. For example, look at the euro compared to the dollar! And Europe as a whole – I have said it before – has a great challenge to remain competitive. The figures of the United States are no better with God than those of Europe. Take For example, it's debt level and compare the US debt level with that of the euro area: 93 percent in the USA, 88 percent in the euro area. The US is more indebted. Or take the budget deficit: This was the last two-digit in the US, and in the euro area – which, of course, is too high – it is 6 percent. To get it to the point: It is a hundred percent right that this report is for the first time not just a foreign policy report, but a foreign and European political report, because the future of our Republic is, above all, closely linked to the future of Europe. It is also true that Austria is so committed at European level, and I am pleased that Austrians can take on responsibility there, as with today's election of Othmar Karas as Vice-President: an Austrian in the Bureau of the European Parliament! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This is important for us that we also have strong personalities at European level who represent our interests. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Kogler.]] But that's just one side of the medal. [[Abg. May. Kogler: If you hadn't gone on a break at the tram, you would have hidden it to this day!]] If the opposition acts as it is, above all, by the liberal side, but also by the BZÖ, then, of course, the concerns of the people here in the country are also growing if this European project is constantly being mistreated. That is why I think it is important and necessary that what the Foreign Minister has started here also be a continuation, in the context of his EU dialogue process, which he has launched, to travel in the country on this EU dialogue tour and also to promote Europe down to the communities for this great project. It is also important to do something here at community level. I am very glad that he has also launched this initiative with the local councils who are particularly responsible for EU issues. Then: This House of Europe needs to be further built. We must not stop dealing with the problems we have. Of course, we are now in the middle of dealing with the crisis – certainly – but this Europe is far from finalized. For Austria, there are great opportunities when, after Slovenia, which has been with the European Union for a long time, Croatia is now becoming a member. We are well advised to support all the former Länder of Yugoslavia when they are on their way towards the EU. This perspective of accession must, of course, also be open to Serbia and other countries. Only if it succeeds in the voluntary and joint cooperation of all the Balkan states in a common Europe has already achieved a great deal – if we only have the last few years in mind, what terrible conflicts there have been in the Balkans. It is very important that we accompany this enlargement of Europe accordingly. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! That is why I think it is also right – and I would like to conclude with this – that this report has brought Europe to the centre here, even though Austria is also at the world level, in which UN, for example, makes great contributions through peace missions. Our representatives from the diplomatic corps thus find appropriate recognition by selecting them in top positions.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e12386	Next speaker: Mr Neubauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e12408	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to start by referring to Mrs Musiol's speech from the Greens. She criticised the fact that representatives of the liberals had spoken of a “boiler spot”. I can tell you the following: If an initiator of a popular desire puts himself a latte of more than a million signatures and he receives 350 000 from the population, then one can speak politically of a “boiler spot”, I believe. [[Abg. Dr Bartenstein: This is the foreign policy report!]] That would not, however, mean, from a liberal point of view, that we would underestimate these signatures that were made, but that we would force the initiation of a referendum if we achieved 250 000 signatures. That is to say, on this point we are different from the Greens, and in this way we are not going to be wrong with you either. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The foreign policy report on South Tyrol – and I am of course referring to it on behalf of my group – has been extended by a few lines in contrast to the 2009 Committee Report. But that does not mean that he would have become more extensive in nature, but he is still scandalous in short and content very disappointing to me. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! What is missing in this report, which would explain the scope of the session, has done so much in South Tyrol alone over the last three years. I am thinking only of the fact that Alone Land Captain Durnwalder has launched numerous initiatives to come into contact with the Austrian Federal Government. At the beginning of the year, he also announced that he would contact the Austrian Federal Government as part of its protective power function, because the development in South Tyrol is a dramatic one. Unfortunately, this will only be silenced by the Federal Government. Unfortunately, in this report there is no word to block the financial resources that should flow from Rome to South Tyrol. Ladies and gentlemen! This was already at risk of existence for the country of South Tyrol, which the Italian Government in Rome mentioned in this regard. In the meantime, this has happened – but has now changed into an even more dramatic situation, that the freezing of the funds violates the autonomy statute and the Milan Agreement. That is why the aid call of the South Tyrol head of state to the Federal Government. And I therefore very much hope that the Federal Government will finally respond and finally lead Italy into the barriers. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] There are, therefore, autonomies. A standstill occurred in the further development of this autonomy. There are still the fascist monuments in South Tyrol and there is still no distraction of Italy to remove these fascist monuments. Despite this development, and despite this increasing drama in political development in South Tyrol and Italy, the Austrian Federal Government has no concern about not including the protective power function in the Austrian Constitution to date. Mr. Federal Minister, that's where you need action. You call on us as an opposition to help you anchor the savings measures in the Constitution, even though you have broken the Constitution in the last budget itself. We have been here since Dr. Khol that these protective measures are coming into the Austrian Constitution. What's the difference? – They are making a useful policy in this regard in favour of Italy and the damage to South Tyrol. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You have been boycotting the South Tyrol Subcommittee for months, and I would like to ask you to do so. Federal Minister! This permanent suspension of the South Tyrol Subcommittee, which, as you hear, goes to your account – you boycott the dates – is already almost unconstitutional what you are doing here. This is the burden of South Tyrol and the interests of the Tyroleans in southern Tyrol. [[Abg. Dr. Bartenstein: Leave the church in the village, Mr. Neubauer!]] I call on you to finally take these boycott measures so that this South Tyrol subcommittee can finally meet. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This Parliament has approved these committees and has also approved them, but you are hindering all dates. The last date has now been set for January, after seven months, and a week ago – and this to May – has been postponed, because you have been against the appointment of this committee. [[Interference of Vice-Cancellor Dr. Spindelegger.]] We know that your coalition partner, too, has assured us that you are the brake for the South Tyrol Subcommittee. I'll tell you one thing: We will not tolerate one thing, namely that you do not address specific problems in South Tyrol, from the dual citizenship beginning over 22,000 signatures that are treating them that you want to prevent this and push it into a new legislative period. There will be no such thing as the Freedom Party! We will tell the Tyroleans at the next election in Innsbruck that tens of thousands of Innsbruckers have signed, but you will prevent treatment in these committees. And we will win these voices for ourselves. [[Abg. Dr. Bartenstein: This was the double future!]] I can assure you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e12517	Next speaker: Mr. Klubobmann Dr. Cap. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e12532	Mr President. I wasn't done yet.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e12562	Sorry! That sounded like a final sentence. Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e12580	I shall now make the following request on behalf of the Freedom Party and numerous Members: [[Quoted print version removed]] No minors than the former head of state Silvius Magnago and today's head of state Durnwalder have led to these decisions unanimously.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e12636	This motion for a resolution is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e12709	Now Mr. Klubobmann is speaking to Dr. Cap. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e12730	Mr President. High house! As chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, I would like to make it quite clear that we also very much appreciate this report because it has been made under the great commitment of officials and because it is really a good basis to be here. to be able to discuss Austria's foreign policy in general and in particular. Furthermore, I would also like to add that both the Foreign Minister and the Secretary of State, when they are present in this debate in the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Security, are taking a very serious approach to every question and are really trying to respond to the wishes of Parliamentarians for information and also for discussion. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] However, I would like to mention the weighting in this report that there is now a little more Europe and a little less the rest of the world inside: So we have nothing to hide. Our performance in the UN, in the international organizations is a very tangible and a very positive one. We also have successes to mention. It is also important that we not only confine ourselves to Europe. As far as our role is concerned, especially in the Arab area, we can certainly take a very positive influence on a process of democratisation, for example in Egypt, Tunisia or in other countries – whether through the expansion of economic relations, or through our democratic know-how, which we can certainly bring in. But the fact that the European Union is experiencing a special weighting here is related to the fact that we in Europe are actually looking at a model of what Europe and the European Union should look like in the future. Europe is not comparable to the USA. Some say yes: The United States of America and the United States of Europe – why are we not trying to do this? This is not comparable in this respect because linguistic, religious and cultural diversity, the different developments, economic and social, in the European countries, within the European Union and those who are not members of the EU, naturally leads to far greater differences and differentiations. This comparison is therefore not possible, and it is therefore necessary to deal with it and to note that there are still marked cultural, social and economic identities. I also believe that this is to be respected. That is why I believe – and we will take this very seriously, Mr Professor. Van der Bellen said – that in this context, sovereignty, budgetary sovereignty and respect for national parliaments and the coordination of national parliaments within the European Union are a priority. I believe that democracy development should be taken into account here. We are an example of this with the EU's main committee. This should now be continued if it is to develop this umbrella for the future and to develop democratic control. There is also tax money from Austria – and be it only in the form of liabilities or more. There is a need to seek a solution similar to the EU's main committee. This is important because it has become apparent that the Council and national parliaments and perhaps some constitutional court in Germany play a special role. This is also logical because the national parliaments are very close to the citizens, because there is more immediacy. At the same time, however, it is also an indication of the opening up of the European Parliament's work, as regards the development of direct democratic institutions at European level, that this closeness to the citizen is a problem. And at the same time, it is a problem which is to offer a traceable model in Europe. This model will have to take into account the diversity. There will not be anything removed, there will be no unity but We have to take this into account. At the same time, however, we need to ensure that our – and there is no wrong with Mr Lopatka – competitiveness, because we now have challenges to countries such as China, India, the United States, Brazil and many others who are on one – we can almost say – overtaking course; this calls for the European Union to look for a model that ensures this competitiveness, but at the same time takes account of the characteristics and national sovereignty. That's quite, very difficult, that's a longer process than some believe. However, it is important to promote this, because it is a survival issue for the large European economic and cultural area. And it is important that with our tradition and experience we may even be able to bring in more. That means: A future of Europe is not possible without furthering democracy and taking national identities and characteristics into account.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e12797	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Karlsböck. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e12818	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! High house! In the light of the foreign policy report, the article on consular work can be highlighted on the hedging page. It must be noted that staff in our foreign representations are doing good work with the limited resources available. I would like to mention this at the beginning. On the other hand, I am unfortunately otherwise missing visions of a future-oriented Austrian foreign policy. Unfortunately, since Austria's accession to the European Union, such a forward-looking foreign policy has been difficult to deal with and we are more or less following what large countries like Germany indicate. I miss tactical strategic goals, which would be found without further delay, if we were also aware of our great history. We have a great history in Europe as Austria, we have a great past. It is possible to draw on the Central European and Southern European countries. We could act as mentors for these countries. We could work here in a partnership and help a stronger vision, a stronger political orientation to break through. An independent position in this area was good for Austria. We could face the great powers such as Germany, France, England and Poland in a fruitful cooperation with this union. The Scandinavian countries are imagining how this works. We in Europe, as you have said, have a focus on neighboring relations. This is what you have emphasized, Mr Minister. In this context, I would like to mention that we have to ask for this in times like this – and I would like to address Hungary here. These friendly relationships with a neighbouring country that is very close to us, historical, emotional – people are friendly, people are free-minded, people are intelligent – are currently shaken by a serious crisis. What is it about this so-called Hungarian crisis, which is so exciting all of Europe at the moment? – There are allegations that EU law is being violated. It is likely that in some areas, when you look at it closely, EU law is actually being violated, but if we take ourselves, we have done so very often. We have the situation that Germany is currently running 80 procedures. I would just like to remind you that the whole European crisis, the euro crisis, as we see it at present, has also been initiated by a violation of so-called procedures or rules. We all know that Germany and France originally violated EU law by simply not doing their homework. And there's no procedure on the foot. There are allegations that democracy is currently being eliminated in Hungary. What's going on? – The radio is said to be occupied with party members. – Well, please, in Austria this does not happen, of course. This is not where democracy is being lifted. [[Cheerfulness and applause at the FPÖ.]] It's moked that the National Bank should be occupied with people of its own party. – Of course, this is not the case in Austria either. It is criticised that the justice there should be occupied with party people. – In Austria, of course, top judges are not negotiated party-politically in the small circle. [[Call the FPÖ:No!]] Of course, all of this is not happening here. Also in art, please, is great excitement in progress. In this regard, the ORF writes as a very independent and also very critical medium about Hungary – this is an irony – that there is one-bright despair among the artists. [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: This is under quotation mark!]] Why is there one-bright despair? - Because the government has made it a task to be involved in this In order to maintain the operation, many smaller theatres now have to generate the money themselves. After thank you: If that is a reason to see democracy in danger, I only say that I cannot join. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Neubauer: This is not the case in Austria too!]] 14 commissioned works of orders have supposedly commissioned Hungary to illustrate the new constitution and there is a single cry of outrage in the contemporary art scene. The whole thing, if I may say so, will be put to the fore by Andreas Unterberger. He wrote recently: “There has again dared a country to choose wrong and to decimate the socialists at a mini-size. European Red and Greens therefore show Hungary what they have already shown the Austrians in 2000: They're perfect in denunciation; if they don't think anything else, they'll hunt“ family fascists again. So that, I tell you, is the same structure. Yesterday, your husband, Martin Schulz, was elected new President in the EU Parliament. [[pointing toward SPÖ]] One of his first tasks was to say that Hungary is to be supervised by means of sanctions against Hungary. And some EU countries, including the Benelux countries, have already announced this and are talking about perhaps withdrawing Hungary's right to vote. Financial pressure is also being exerted – and I am now back with Austria. This financial pressure, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I would like to tell you that, which is currently being exerted against Hungary, we should oppose it in a massive way. We should be at the side of Hungary as friends, because this is also in Austria's own interest. If financial pressure is exerted here and, unlike Greece and Portugal, one lets this country go bankrupt, that would directly harm us, our banks and, of course, our economy. For this reason alone – even if it were just that – we would be well advised to stand by Hungary.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e12904	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Van der Bellen. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e12925	Mr Karlsböck, I am very much in favour of helping Hungary, the citizens of Hungary, but I see no reason at all to stand by a legal authority of Viktor Orbán. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I see no reason at all to support his implicit coalition partner, Jobbik. [[Abg. Kickl: Hasn't he been elected? How'd they get to the row?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Karlsböck.]] It is your right to stand up for post-, pre- or otherwise like fascist parties in Europe, I do not want to take this at all, but to think about it, Mr Karlsböck: You have expressed yourself very ironically about the differences or non-distinctions between Hungary and Austria, and I can follow you very well. Of course, judges at the Constitutional Court in Austria are ordered according to procedures, where you feel a little neglected as not black and not red, let's say carefully. Yeah, you're right. What happens in the ORF, yes, of course. Only one, Mr Karlsböck: Imagine Austria and perhaps your role, if that were not red and black, but a single party that does! Then the story would look a little different. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] That's not one – how am I supposed to say? – a dazzling division of power between red and black, as we have here, but this is a one-party party that takes power there, with methods that, I think, completely ridicule a democratic legitimacy. When positions are filled with trust at eight or nine years by step, in jurisdiction, in the national bank and so on, the fun stops. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Hairer]] The European Commission is also right to do so. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The European Commission is, after all, the guardian of the Treaties under EU law, and its task is to ensure that the spirit and the letter of the European Treaties are observed in all Member States. [[Intrusion of the Abg. New builder.]] It is true that there is never an end to infringement procedures, in all countries, against Austria, against Germany, just as you have listed it, that is true, but rarely – at least I do not think of an example – in cases where the substance of the European Treaties is concerned, and not because one has exceeded a time limit, that certain limit values have not been fully respected and so on. I've been reported as pro-redner here, which is something I'm not comfortable with. I am pro-redner in that we consider the report as such to be a good report. He reflects that we still have a good diplomatic corps. Yes, I agree with that at any time, and that is why we take note of the foreign policy report. We still have a very good diplomatic corps – I am still stressing – but how long has it been in view of this budgetary development, which has supported and initiated the responsible vice-chancellor and foreign minister? This ministry is being silenced at all levels as far as diplomatic service in the narrowest sense, not only by development policy, but also by a reduction in health, and in a situation in which globalisation is known to increase, international integration is increasing not only in the economy but also in the States. In this situation, Austria is experiencing a reduction in the health of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. This is the policy of the competent minister who has to manage the implosion of the ÖVP by the way – but that does not deserve our pity. Nor do I see any special occasion for fairness to a minister who accuses me as a member of an opposition party of wanting to take away his savings book from every Austrian. There I am humorless, I have to say that honestly. [[Congratulation with Greens and BZÖ.]] As long as the ministers do not take such things back with the expression of regret, I see no reason to deal with him fairly. I think we have a foreign minister who doesn't deserve the name. I remember Alois Mock, I remember Bruno Kreisky, I remember a whole series of foreign ministers, with whom one did not have to agree in detail, but those with passion and passion, with enthusiasm, have tried to represent Austrian interests, to make foreign policy, that is no appreciation in detail, but I do not have this feeling at all with Mr Spindelegger! Austria is regularly hiding behind international bodies, Austria has no position on interesting international issues regularly. Whether this is in Europe's policy, in Africa's policy or elsewhere, it is quite the same: Austria always waits and joins the majority somewhere, and if it is easy, the opinion of Germany, regardless of whether the Austrian interests are identical with the German interests or not. This is the state of Austrian foreign policy. I say again: not the excellent diplomatic corps, but the political leader. WikiLeaks then published the Depeschen – the Americans do not take a hand on the inside – in which it was written that there is a deep gap between the image that Austria makes itself of its role in the world, and its actual, increasingly modest performance. The only thing that bothers me is that there is talk about Austria and not correctly from the Austrian Foreign Minister. I would hate to be involved in these things now. But that is the shortened language of American diplomats. That's right, yes, that's right: Where does Austria play a role? Where does Austrian foreign policy play a role? Most recently in European policy – is there any position that distinguishes us from, so to speak, the mainstream of German wisdom? - I don't know. Even now in the current negotiations, I said it earlier, to the so-called Fiscal Union, which always comes out: Austrian position? - No, I don't. Just don't look at it, Mr. Minister, wait until the majority opinion turns out – in this way you won't win any profile. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Bartenstein.]] They do not necessarily have to represent green positions, sustainable climate policy, sustainable economic policy, human rights, the rule of law – this is all happening in the text. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Lichtenecker]] In your foreword to the foreign policy report, there is hardly any sentence you would not sign, but what will happen then in concrete terms? You have the preface written, and then you'll deal with the downfall of the ÖVP again. Unfortunately, this is the state of Austrian foreign policy, both, I must say, as far as Europe and the “rest of the world” – between quotation marks – are concerned. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Dr. Bartenstein.]] The human rights are always rightly emphasized by you, the Arab Spring – that is 2011, not 2010 – but what has Austria done specifically now? What has Austria done specifically for Syrian refugees, whether it is to support them in Turkey, be it for bringing them into the European Union, or what else? These are things that are tricky and where you can easily angle. Hungary: Mr Karlsböck was at least open and described his position and the position of the FPÖ. Yes, is there an official position of the Foreign Minister on Hungary? - I don't know anyone. The European Commission has to get back on track, and at some point when it turns out that the European Commission is right or is getting right. For the second drama in Austrian foreign policy, development policy, Judith Schwentner will comment in detail. I have to tell you: Unfortunately, I have no desire or reason to be fair to this Foreign Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e13035	Next speaker: Mr Scheibner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e13056	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Foreign Minister! We will vote in favour of this report, as we have already done in the Committee – but it has not been properly recorded – because we, Mr Hübner, do not expect any ratings in the foreign policy report. We must do this, this is our task as a parliamentarian. For me, this foreign policy report, like every year, is a real good overview of the development of Austria's foreign policy, but also the development of the global situation, and we can draw conclusions from it. You, my colleague, have addressed Sudan and criticised the Austrian commitment there, but at the same time your colleague Karlsböck has confirmed future prospects in Austrian foreign policy. I cannot therefore go in line with your opinion, for it would be a prospect for the future that Austria – as with the Sudan – takes out crisis regions and tries, where others, especially large powers, are the party, have no place to communicate in a really difficult conflict and possibly also to accompany the persons acting there, to accompany critically, but equipped with confidence in order to really move something. And Sudan has succeeded. I often criticize the lack of courage in foreign policy. It was the official Austrian foreign policy, but there were also initiatives by the former Minister Fassleven, who did really good peace work there with his institute and with other institutes. However, the use of the Chad signal has also been made by our national defense. We ourselves – Minister Fassleven, Mrs Huttonen and I – were very sensitive with a delegation before Christmas in Sudan, of course a crisis area. We were the only Europeans there at a conference where radical Islamists tried to make a mood against the West. We have resisted and received many positive resonances. I think that's our job. It must be our task as an Austrian to deal with crises and a way to find a way out, where others, no matter where they sit, are still trying to polarize. This is a niche which I see in other areas for Austrian foreign policy and which is also useful. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] It would also be important to continue working on what is happening to Sudan, because there is what we want: that a dictator, at least after what we have seen there, shows insight, that in a referendum the division of the country is allowed and is now trying to step by step to respect human rights better than before, but also towards democratization. Now, however, there must also be the signal of the West that sanctions are lifted or at least suspended in order to show: If such a process starts, then there is also a way out for such countries, a positive way out. And that would also be a signal for other crisis regions in the world. Foreign Minister! They have also included in this report the activity of Austria in the UN Security Council. I was very pleased about this opportunity, because it was the former Foreign Minister, Pahr, and I, too, as a former minister, who volunteered as a Special Representative for this candidate. And an important focus of Austria was the protection of the civilian population in crisis areas. I think it is very important, especially when we see the Arab Spring, that we, as Austria, really enforce this principle and critically raise the voice where it is ignored. When we look at the situation in Libya: No one cries a tear to dictator Gaddafi, but that you are now so quiet and you don't hear anything about the conditions that now exist there is not right either. There are the same attacks against the civilian population as before, they are only practiced by others, there are armed incidents, migrants from Africa are only because they have a black skin color, discriminated, tortured and creaked. But it seems that the economic interests are now satisfied, and that is primarily important. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] As far as Egypt is concerned, all were very one-sided for this revolution. Little can be heard now that freedom of religion is at risk, that democratic rights have not helped to break through, and perhaps Islamists will now come to power there. In Tunisia too, what everyone wanted has not occurred. Now everyone is looking at Syria, and again there is this black and white painting: on the one hand, a bad despot – quite comprehensible; Violence against demonstrators is not to be accepted – but on the other hand, not only are intellectuals, artists and philosophers sitting, but also there is an attempt to achieve political goals with force of arms – quite externally supported – to the detriment of the civilian population. And if you don't see what can happen there if there is no peaceful solution there, then we sit there on a powder barrel that can endanger world peace, ladies and gentlemen. – Including Iran. I don't think it's possible to deal with sanctions. No, not sanctions, but dialogue is important. This is an Austrian task, which is comprehensive. And there you can also include parliamentarians and former ministers, who do not have this high official rank – this only as a small reference to the current discussion. All of us who are concerned with and committed to foreign policy should be interested in hearing the Austrian voice more strongly in the future, and everyone in their place will be aware of these possibilities. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Human rights, ladies and gentlemen, should be indivisible. But it will not work if we want to transfer our democratic system to all the world's crisis spots now and immediately. This creates more uncertainty than there may be security, and we cannot be interested in it. In this sense, I hope that the Sudan initiative will not remain a day-old fly, but that we will now, where it is important to communicate in many countries, including the Middle East, that you too, Mr Foreign Minister, are active, not waiting for what the EU says, such as the question of the recognition of Palestine as a full member of the UN, but that we within the European Union are the engine for this development. We support a two-state theory in Palestine, but refuse to actively support the recognition of Palestine as a state in the UN. – That’s a contradiction! One must clearly take the floor against a current and must not understand the mistakes of the past, because many of the problems we are trying to deal with today have caused the West. In Iraq, they have destroyed structures, rather than just the heads, the dictators, and trying to build a new system together. As regards Palestine, it has been decreed that the President loses power because they did not want Arafat. It has forced free elections, a Prime Minister has been used – the result is civil war. At the time, the Taliban was invented in Afghanistan because it was very much seen that they fought against the Soviet occupations in the underground – they were out of control. In Syria, ladies and gentlemen, it was then, when Bashar Assad came to power, that one failed to support him to open the country. The answer was “the axis of evil” by Mr Bush. No one has said anything about it, and with that the cadres in Syria have regained power. Many of the mistakes of the last 10, 20 years have been indebted to this day, and then you try to clear up the hot spots that you shouldn't have caused.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e13176	President. — The debate is closed. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e13197	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! First of all, I would like to briefly address the 2010 foreign policy report. The report to be discussed today concerns the year 2010 which was the second year of our membership of the UN Security Council. That is why in this report you will also find a number of initiatives that we have set out on reports relating to this commitment in the Security Council. This year, I would also like to mention, we have already prepared our next projects, namely our membership of the Human Rights Council. We were elected to the Human Rights Council in 2011. We have prepared our membership in the UNESCO Executive Council. There too, last year, we reached our headquarters by a very large amount of approval from the State community, and I think that is good and right. I would particularly like to address the many consular cases – 300 000 in 2010. This figure is again higher than that in the year before; in 2011 it has again developed dramatically upward through the Arab Spring and all our commitment that we have seen there. At the very moment, I can say that yesterday in Ethiopia a drama was again recorded by an attack on a group of travellers. We now know with certainty that among the five dead in this attack was also an Austrian. We are just trying to bring his mortal remains to Austria and care for the family. But we see: Something's happening all the time! I can also say on this occasion that, as far as we now know, this group of travellers was on the road in a militaryly blocked area. Again and again, this is one thing we experience that where tourism is not supposed to take place or where it takes place, even though we are issuing a travel warning, something happens again and again, and then, of course, we are forced to intervene, help to save Austrians. Our employees do this to an extent that it can really be seen. I would like to thank all my colleagues from the foreign office again today for their often selfless commitment to this question! [[General condolences.]] Secondly, I would like to address some of the current questions in the discussion. First of all, Sudan: Mr Hübner, we have already exchanged this with the Committee on Foreign Affairs, but also with some humor. I should like to make one more point on the seriousness of the debate. The Sudan was an issue on the agenda in the second year of our membership of the United Nations Security Council, a huge one! I would also like to thank Mr Scheibner for what he has said. We have put in place initiatives that have gone very well in the direction of ensuring that the referendum is well organized in order to divide between the north and the south. We are now planning to intensify our contacts and to invite them back to Austria. I should also like to thank you very much for the appreciation expressed by Mr Scheibner in this debate. [[Complementary with ÖVP and SPÖ as well as with the BZÖ.]] When I address the criticisms of Professor Van der Bellen, I can also forward one thing: If you have felt offended by my comments in the current hour, I am sorry, and I am happy to take that back. That was an exaggeration, okay. I just ask you to understand that sometimes I feel patient, even when I talk to your club president about the debt brake issues. There too, many things were not in order, what she said and where she felt that she was so ready to really talk to us about a two-thirds majority. But I'll take this back and ask you to be transparent with me, too. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Thirdly, I should like to address what Mr Neubauer, an activist for South Tyrol, has said. I would also like to take this commitment off again and again – he does it with inbreast and passion – but I would like to correct the facts a little bit. First: Mr President, this morning I held an intensive discussion with Mr Durnwalder on South Tyrol, because we do this regularly and he informed me of the questions whether the autonomy statute has been violated or not. I have assured him that I will also call on Mr Monti as the head of the new government in Italy to respect and adhere to the autonomy statute. It is also our job in Austria to be active in this protection function, and I will be happy to do so. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] However, I would also ask you to take note of the following: I am not voting on the committee dates in the House, which is a matter for Members. [[Abg. New builder: Just not!]] I am also at your disposal, honourable Member, to take note of this. [[Abg. New builder: No! Because it's not true!]] If you give me proposals, I'll be happy to do so. But the exercise of the House that all five political groups have to agree to a committee appointment probably applies to each committee, not only to the South Tyrol Subcommittee of the Foreign Policy Committee. [[Abg. New builder: Apparently only for him!]] Hungary: Mr Karlsböck referred to this. I will be in Budapest on Friday to give me a personal impression, and I will also address Mr Martonyi and Mr Orbán's Prime Minister on the issues that are bilaterally important to us and which must also be taken into account in the overall context of European law and Hungarian legislation. I will also hold a very open debate with the two of them. We have, of course, adopted an Austrian position, as on many other points, which reads as follows: Where European law is being violated, there must also be consequences, namely a change in Hungary. But where internal policy is made a matter of foreign policy, we are not available. That's our position, and I'm going to do exactly in this direction. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to address a point that seems to me to be important because the question of Syria will again be debated in the Foreign Policy Council next Monday. We see there that what the regime has assured – the Arab League, including the European Union – is still not respected. I expect a report from the Arab League for tomorrow, which has been completed and will present its report tomorrow. We will be involved in this, and we will have to decide on the next Monday how to decide the next sanctions against Syria, because it can't be tolerated that people still lose their lives every day because they're going to the street, and the regime always wants to give the impression that it would be ready for everything anyway, but actually nothing does. A European Community must also have very clear consequences. We will advise next Monday and, I assume, we will also decide. I would therefore like to conclude with regard to the climate in the Committee on Foreign Policy, but also foreign policy in general. I believe that this is a very trusting work between all the political groups I wish to confirm. I would also like to thank the chairman of the Committee, who leads it in the right manner and in the right manner. I believe that if we really have different opinions on foreign policy positions, we will discuss them in a very appropriate manner in the Committee on Foreign Affairs and that we will continue to do so in the future. This is my desire, and I ask everyone to remain constructive. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e13295	Next speaker: Mr Bartenstein. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e13317	Mr President. Foreign Minister and Vice-Cancellor! High house! Foreign Minister, you have just announced that in a few days you will travel to Hungary to Prime Minister Orbán and will probe the situation on site. This is good, and if this – I assume – is based on not only neighborly, but friendly relations between Austria and Hungary, it can and should also contribute to illuminating some of the fog that has actually been raised in recent weeks. The European Union has clearly learned from the mistakes of 2000 and this incomprehensible and completely false sanctions policy against Austria, and it is doing more cautiously here. We should not, however, talk about things in small terms either, Mr Karlsböck. If, after good consideration, the Commission comes to the conclusion that three infringement procedures are threatened and put further into space, it is the one side that is quite serious to take. The other side, of course, is the fact that even some time after the elections in Hungary, it must be noted that democratic electoral decisions must be taken, ladies and gentlemen, even if a party that is not left of the centre wins these elections, with a two-thirds majority. I am not saying now that this two-thirds majority should not be used in Hungary or elsewhere, but it was a two-thirds majority that Orbán gained! We Austrians also have our individual criticisms regarding what is happening in Hungary. Our banks are rightly extremely irritated and annoyed at how Hungary deals with foreign currency credits. Simply to say, not the Hungarian borrowers, but the Austrian banks have the burden to bear, is also not exactly the fine English or Hungarian way! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I am also grateful on behalf of my group – just as Mr Foreign Minister has just done – for Austria's diplomatic corps, which in many cases must be on the road as a crisis fire brigade and consular. This unfortunately obvious death of an Austrian in Ethiopia is an example, but we also think of the downfall of the “Costa Concordia” or a criminal case in Colombia that goes through the media in these hours. This is the head of the iceberg, as the Foreign Minister said, as many as 300,000 consular cases involving Austrians and in which our people, namely those in the diplomatic corps, can help our people all over the world, as well as they can. Thank you very much, and thank you very much for this very comprehensive and very good foreign and European policy report, ladies and gentlemen in the Foreign Office. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] It is true that the Foreign Minister has proudly pointed out that Austria has completed these two years as a member of the UN Security Council, I would like to say, with professionalism and Bravour. The election to the Human Rights Council was then probably a logical consequence of that, namely the successful election. The fact that we Austrians, at least on the ground, were able to bring three main points into the work of the UN Security Council, namely the primacy of the rule of law, the protection of the civilian population, if armed conflicts already have to occur, and on the third, the role of women when it comes to dealing with the conflict, we can already count a bit of this and point it out with pride. Mr Karlsböck, you are completely in favour of this country's foreign policy, that nothing is happening here towards south-eastern Europe, towards our neighbours. [[Abg. Dr. Karlsböck: Too little!]] Austria was and is an initiative in good times as well as in bad times, as far as the slow and reasonable yet consistent pre-accession of these countries to the European Union is concerned. It will not end until all the countries of the Western Balkans – we hope 2020 – are integrated into the Union. In Serbia, there was a short interruption from the well-known Kosovo theme, but Lopatka has already pointed out that hopefully the candidate status can be granted soon. The Danube space strategy is something that takes place step by step, and we also go beyond, looking towards the Black Sea and Caspian Sea. This is not least related to our economic interests – “Nabucco” keyword. But economic interests – and I come to talk about them again in my final sentence – are in second place. For the Western Balkans, for the Balkans as a whole, what has happened in the enlargement of the Union to Spain, Portugal, Greece many years ago to the new EU Member States a few years ago: These are primarily peace and democracy projects. And under the line: They have also been successful in all the problems associated with it. Finally, a word of thanks to the Foreign Minister, based on criticism, has something to do with the economy: Austria – my colleague Lopatka has pointed this out – is an export-oriented country, by the way, more export-oriented than Germany. There was the criticism of our Foreign Minister from American circles, published by WikiLeaks, that the Foreign Minister was mainly on the road in terms of foreign economic interests. First of all: The Americans have to say that – they can do that very well! But I mean, Foreign Minister, it is exactly what you and you are doing here, namely to make foreign policy in the interests of our foreign economy. This is lobbyism in the best sense of the word. So: Just keep going, thank you!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e13359	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Muttons. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e13381	Mr President. Foreign Minister and Vice-Cancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! We discussed Austrian EU policy very thoroughly in the morning, so I would like to talk about non-European policy in particular. This is where, if we look at the three years of the legislative period so far, we can speak of a very positive foreign policy balance sheet. It has already been mentioned: The two-year membership of the Security Council can be regarded as an Austrian success. In particular, I would like to mention our commitment to the 1894 resolution to protect the civilian population in arms. in conflicts, but also in 1325 to strengthen women in crisis regions. The recognition we have received for our work has certainly contributed to the fact that in 2011 we also succeeded in being elected to the important bodies of the UN Human Rights Council and the UNESCO Executive Council. This good reputation, which has been built up by Austria, namely the rule of law, the protection of the civilian population, the strengthening of the role of women and also of international disarmament, must not only be defended, but it must also be further enhanced and strengthened. We have a very active role in the Human Rights Council. Especially when condemning human rights violations by the Syrian government, we must ensure that pressure is further increased, both on the Assad regime to stop human rights violations immediately, as well as on the UN Security Council, to act harder and more closed to the Syrian government and, as in the case of Libya, to finally turn on the International Criminal Court. With regard to UNESCO, I would like to expressly welcome the decision of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to vote for the inclusion of Palestine in UNESCO. This inclusion has given the Palestinian community an important sign of solidarity and recognition, thus also strengthening the democratic forces in Palestine. Unfortunately, this issue in turn has not succeeded in developing uniform European positions in the EU. All in all, however, it is important for Austria to step up its commitment outside Europe and to raise the profile here as well. This is particularly true of the region around the southern Mediterranean, around the Middle East or also in Africa. Austria's foreign policy interests do not end in the Balkans or in the Black Sea region, because – and I really want to stress this here – peaceful and democratic development and, in view of Iran, nuclear-free development is also essential for our safety. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e13423	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Schwentner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e13444	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear spectators – these are more than in plenary at this item on the agenda, interesting, happy me! But I am not pleased that so few are sitting in plenary. To perhaps come back on one: Mr Kickl has spoken during my colleague's speech Van der Bellen, with his opinion on Hungary, briefly called in: Well, he's been chosen stop! That's right, they have the two-thirds majority! Viktor Orbán is the President, the Fidesz Party has the two-thirds majority. I think this is interesting in this context, because it is so far from the fact that human rights are being trampled on in Hungary that freedom of the press is constantly being questioned and constitutional breach has been committed on a permanent and repeated basis. [[Abg. Dr. Hübner: Where? Where are they being trodden with feet?]] That's what I'm Your sense of democracy? Is that all legitimate that a party has been elected? – I am glad that there has now been an infringement procedure in Brussels. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I find it more than annoying. [[Abg. New builder: Look at the ORF!]] - I'm not looking at the ORF. To ORF we look at it from 3 o'clock, we can discuss it even longer. By the way, look at the ORF! [[Abg. Neubauer: Look at Mr Putin...!]] I think it is also interesting, Mr Hübner, if you repeat – and we discussed it in committee – to address and criticize the Sudan travels of Mr. Foreign Minister. In this context, I would also like to mention that the chairman of the Sub-Saharan Friendship Group, President Martin Graf, is planning a trip to Sudan by chance. How is that justified? How can it be justified that FPÖ is planning a Sudan journey – under the chairmanship of Martin Graf – but that is criticized if Austria is also involved in the development in Sudan? – I think this is very important and right. In general terms, the report: Van der Bellen has already mentioned that it is a bit difficult. Yes, we take note of the report, and it cannot be taken into account unless you have heard of the FPÖ, which has never taken note of a report, I believe, as far as I can remember now, that I sit in committees and debate reports. But the report is so general that one cannot, in fact, be against it. And the second question is: To whom is the report addressed? Who would you like to address with the report? And what is the basis for the report in this form, namely, Austria's position as a foreign policy and, on the other hand, also for a discussion in connection with Austria's position in the international context and its role in the EU? We have not only addressed it in connection with Hungary, I also lack something. I welcome the fact that you are now going to Budapest and there making Austria's position clear in relation to the things that are happening there. But I would also welcome it, and I miss it: I do not know Austria's position, for example, on Russia, on what happened at Christmas time to democracy movement in Russia. I am not aware that the Foreign Minister had given his opinion on this. I am concerned about Austria, which – as far as I can remember – and I know about a relatively long period of time because I have been very much in Russia – has been economically active there since the 1980s and represents economic interests in a massive way when it comes to supporting the democratic interests of citizens in Russia, is not present and does not take a position. I wish I did. All in all, I would like you to refer more to human rights, to other issues that lie away from the economic interests of Austria, that you often comment and position more strongly on your foreign policy projects and on them. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] One point – we are talking more about it in the next item on the agenda – is development policy. You have just given a speech in Parliament, Minister, on Austrian foreign policy. [[President Dr. Graf takes over the chairmanship.]] Mr Minister, you have mentioned ten major areas, from the situation of the EU, its role and its importance to the issue of disarmament. They mentioned one area only once in a sub-point, namely development policy. I am very sorry because development policy is actually a large part of your place of business. It has already been remarkable that it appears only as a subpoint, which is where the new Black Sea strategy is concerned. In this respect it is significant, Mr Bartenstein, that you are in charge of Nabucco, and therefore very probably the economic interest of Austria, but the developmental commitment there, which is also in the three-year programme, does not actually occur at all, and has not occurred in your speech. I would like you to make a much more frequent reference to development policy, this important area in your department. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e13537	The next speaker was Mr Huber. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e13559	Mr President, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the Federal Minister! Mr ÖVP-Obmann! Now it is exactly a year since the Tyroleans were here in the High House and handed us the citizens' initiative on the dual citizenship of South Tyrol. 22 000 Tyroleans have signed this citizens' initiative and expect this Parliament to finally accept its signatures. That's a year ago. And what does the ÖVP do? What does ÖVP-Obmann Spindelegger do? . In the Committee on Foreign Affairs, on my question as to how it stands on this issue, he says that the South Tyroleans are given double citizenship, a scandalous answer. The answer has been slaughtered more than enough in the media anyway. He said that the ÖVP certainly does not give up for a collection of double citizenship. [[Abg. New builder: This is third-class!]] I have to tell you, Mr ÖVP-Obmann, please think about what these Austrians did when they were forced to be Italianized by the Italians in 1922. Before making such statements, you should really look at these fates. Perhaps you have some of our history of our native history – no idea, but do Please give me one: Think about such statements well in the future! [[In the case of the BZÖ, and the members of the FPÖ.]] If you look at this without emotion, university professor Obwexer has clearly concluded that Austria does not need to change the Constitution, it is not a violation of the Treaty of Saint Germain – so, Mr ÖVP-Obmann, please explain to the Tyroleans what is really your motivation that you are serving only Italy and that there is no step forward. And now, very briefly, to the Committee: Our chairman, Mr Gahr from Tyrol, tells us all that he has been trying for months to achieve this committee. The truth is: The ÖVP tip, first and foremost Mr ÖVP-Obmann, Vice-Chancellor and Foreign Minister, is opposed. This committee will not take place until May so that the decision will enter into the next legislative period. However, the Tyroleans will not be allowed to do so. And I hope you will speak truthfully with the head of state Durnwalder of South Tyrol, because this policy, I believe, will not go through with you, and the Tyroleans and the Tyroleans will not approve of it. I call on you, Mr ÖVP-Obmann, to go into it, to think back and forth about your values and to consider your policy on how we can continue there in the future. [[In the case of the BZÖ, as well as the members of the FPÖ.]] And now very briefly, so that you also deal with the theme of the plodar: A few kilometres from the eastern border is the village of Sappada. In Sappada today, there are still 1,500 original East-Tirolers living, between 1000 and 13. Hundreds of years have emigrated. They still speak German today, but do not receive any support from our Federal Government at all. It's impossible for people to go to a German school. Over it could be They also talk to Prime Minister Monti about helping because these minorities deserve it. These minorities live Austrian, live Tyrolean culture and, Foreign Minister, it is your job that you are committed to it. In this context, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Mr. Federal Minister, you're going to work there! Do something for the Tyroleans who spend their lives there! They're waiting for our support. Above all, I would ask you again: Sit down! Don't block Parliament! Do not lift up Parliament by preventing committees from coming in! If we take South Tyrol policy seriously, we must finally resolve the question of dual citizenship. And if you're against it, tell the Tyroleans, but don't delay it.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e13629	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e13691	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Cortolezis defeat. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e13712	Mr President. Foreign Minister! High house! Appreciate viewers! They have seen today and see it in the current debate how diverse foreign policy, European policy is. The report, which we all agree with, also shows how important the Austrian commitment – almost everyone! Sorry! [[Interim calls at the FPÖ]] I believe, however, that the vast majority here in the House is clearly convinced that this report is not only informative, it is a very great reference work, but also a document of our dedicated foreign and European policy. Whoever, if not our vice chancellor, is a persuasive European who is constantly, and then I join my previous speaker, without wanting to overestimate him, in being willing to overcome the borders. In a Europe of the regions, we are far more than what my previous speaker has presented. Bilingual lessons, ladies and gentlemen, are actually standard today. If we take school autonomy seriously in Austria and also across Europe, we are of course in favour of a variety of languages. The Council of Europe, the European Union already has us shows that cultural policy, language policy in Europe and internationally, in particular, is one of the most important bridges to strengthen and support global co-existence. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We want to develop this Europe together. It is about a further development which has already been addressed several times today, towards enhanced financial and economic regulations, in the sense of common objectives, towards democratisation of this Europe, in the sense of complying with rules of the game. The preliminary work was carried out in 2010 with the report before us and the report for 2011. If we did not have such a good negotiating basis within Europe and in our foreign policy in Europe, then it would not be possible to overcome the current crisis as quickly as possible. The fact that we are not speaking of 27 different positions, Mr Van der Bellen, but Austria is very likely to speak for a common language in Europe, is evidenced by the foreign policy of our foreign minister. He has looked behind the scenes very, very many conversations, not only in 2010, but also in 2011, which he can now make good use of in the crisis. This also shows the strength of Europe. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would like to add additional aspects of cooperation in the regions in addition to the comments made by my previous speakers. I am very concerned about the Europe of the regions. In particular, the Danube region and the Black Sea region have also been addressed. It is a question of peace policy, of development policy, of democratisation policy. Throughout the Danube and Black Sea, it is also a matter of bringing EU countries and neighbouring countries closer to one another, and of course this includes, at the end of the road, a common economic policy or bilateral agreements that can be in the foreground. Employment and economic policy work only within the framework of a common peace policy, and therefore things cannot be separated from each other, as you do, Mr Schwentner, but belong together very closely. Finally, we want to make as little difference as possible and promote common prosperity in these regions. As a doorstep opener, cultural policy also makes a big contribution, and I would like to express my warmest thanks to the cultural forums, which, with 30 jobs, make a great contribution, especially in the Danube region and in the Black Sea region, have one of their important priorities. They always help to get through art, literature, science, education to cooperate accordingly. We need to agree in Europe on a common priority programme in science 2014-2020. I am very concerned that the preparatory work will be prepared accordingly by our diplomatic representations. Federal Minister! Thank you and the entire department for this preparatory work at this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e13781	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Worm. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e13803	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I would also like to join those who say here that this report is well written that it has a good overview of the activities of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs last year and in 2010 respectively. In a substantial part of this report, the Council of Europe is being treated, the activities of one of the oldest international organisations on European soil. A major chapter will also be devoted to the issue of human rights. I would like to turn to this activity. I would like to briefly report on our activities as a delegation to the Council of Europe. As Austrian parliamentarians and parliamentarians, we are represented by twelve people in the Council of Europe. I can tell you that we are active and we are contributing to the essential points dealt with by the Council of Europe, which are the rule of law, democracy and human rights. Within the last two years, a lot has been done. We have elected a new Secretary-General to the Council of Europe, the Norwegian Jagland, who has initiated major reforms. Now in January, next week, is the first session, the first session this year. As essential reform projects will already be implemented, they will already be entered into the Council of Europe's parliamentary assembly. The Committees have been reduced or the number of committees reduced. Several changes have also been made to improve the visibility of the Council of Europe. The reform efforts of the European Court of Human Rights were an essential part of the year under review. There is much to do to speed up the procedures. We have a standstill of 150 000 procedures. This is therefore a very important and central point for people on our continent, because the individual complaint to enforce human rights is special at this Court of Justice. That is to ensure, and to ensure quickly, that it is, and must be the aim. Therefore, there has been substantial steps taken by the Swiss Presidency in this area, last year by the ratification of the 14th. Additional protocols have become effective. So there's a lot going on. We are very committed to the fact that the essential points to be dealt with in the Council of Europe are the key tasks, namely safeguarding the rule of law, safeguarding democracy in all 47 Member States, developing human rights on our continent and improving where there are still problems. We also participate regularly in election observations to ensure that the democratic principle is respected in the various Member States. Regular reports will be provided on this matter. To conclude: I am very happy and proud that last May the Republic of Austria was among the first signatorys when it came to signing the Convention against Violence against Women, against Domestic Violence in Istanbul. This Convention goes back to an initiative which was launched here in Vienna, at the conclusion of the parliamentary dimension of the campaign against domestic violence, against violence against women. The purpose of this Convention is to ensure that, in Austria and in Europe, the same standards exist regarding one of the human rights violations, namely violence against women. A major chapter of this is contained in the foreign policy report. We want and will ensure that this human rights abuse number one improves the laws for the victims who suffer from this violence and that protection facilities for the victims are developed accordingly. I hope and am convinced that this Convention will find enough signatorys to be ratified this year. we can, and with this we can introduce the relevant standards into Europe. We have made our contribution. Thank you very much, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e13857	Next speaker: Mr Gahr. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e13878	Mr President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Enter once to fix the South Tyrol Subcommittee: Of course, we need a common date, we need a vote with the Ministry, with the Minister of State, with the Secretary of State and, of course, with a roundtrip. There have been some irritations. It is now a date fixed in May, but we will try to organize it as soon as possible and to convene a committee. There is a clear commitment to the fact that this South Tyrol Subcommittee is also meeting reliably. The foreign policy report shows us the diversity and dimension of responsibility that Austria takes over internationally at various levels. As a South Tyrol speaker, I can see clearly today: Since 1946, Austria has been trying to fulfil its protection function vis-à-vis Italy. Especially today is another such event, where Mr. Landeshuptmann Durnwalder lives in Vienna in order to keep parliamentary contact to discuss here the irritations with Prime Minister Monti regarding the financial sovereignty of South Tyrol. The Foreign Minister has clearly stated – and I am very grateful for that – that he will contact Monti and present it. – Thank you very much for that. But one should perhaps not limit the protection function to just these, because Austria has developed much together with South Tyrol since accession to the EU, with Italy, whether in the common agricultural policy, whether in the case of mountain areas, whether it be in the area of infrastructure projects – the Brenner Base Tunnel is currently in intensive discussion – on which it is about building and strengthening a European transport axis. However, there are other initiatives, for example last year the initiative to deal with the fascist relics was decided here in Parliament across the party borders. Now these fascist relics are being converted into a so-called doku center in Rome, and I expect and hope that this will contribute to putting fascism in Italy. There are other concerns for the future, whether it be the grace of the freedom fighters, whether it be the question of dealing with the Tolomei decree regarding the localities and corridors. A project, which was set up in 2011 and was perhaps forgotten there and there, is the European Union for Territorial Cooperation, through which there is a new model of cooperation between Tyrol, South Tyrol and Trentino, which gives us opportunities to work more closely together in the areas of health, research, culture, education, energy and tourism. I think these are projects that build Europe, develop Europe, and that there is cooperation and cooperation across borders in the region. The issue of double citizenship is also always discussed very emotionally. Yes, there is a citizens' initiative with 22,000 signatures, which was taken very seriously in which there is a desire for more ties with Austria, in which there is a desire to strengthen the identity. But there is a clear pro and contrast on this issue. I think it's our job to discuss and weigh it off. When it comes to this, it must also be clear that there is acceptance in our country of such a project and that the citizens are informed. There's still a lot of information to flow, because there's a lot of speculations: Is it only about rights and obligations, and is it also about material claims? - We still have a lot to explain here. We will, of course, also invite those who give us information about the European dimension, the national dimension and where we need to put the lever on. In the future, there will be many challenges between Austria, Italy, Vienna and Rome and between South Tyrol, Trentino and Tyrol. And I think one must be very clearly at the heart of it: We must always look at this under the umbrella of the European Union. Europe needs to grow together. Especially today, I think, it is all the more important that we develop and maintain these contacts in the regions. Finally, I can say: The autonomy that South Tyrol enjoys and repeatedly demands – and rightly demands – is a common asset of three language groups in South Tyrol. It's a plane where we can understand. We need to further develop autonomy. There is currently the vision of full autonomy – the South Tyroleans say they want to be even more independent – but I think it must also be important that we promote federalism here, and that is a contribution to it. In this sense, I believe, Austria's foreign policy clearly has the task of maintaining, promoting relations, opening doors, taking advantage of the opportunities of cooperation and guaranteeing security for people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e13949	Next speaker: Mrs Bayr. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e13970	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Human rights protection is relatively broad in the foreign policy report. Human rights protection is also very relevant to development policy, and the report as such addresses, in particular, the issues of minority protection in general and religious minority protection, as well as the issues of women's and children's human rights. I would like to mention a subject in this giant, which is missing in the list, but which I think is the key to very, very many other, also relevant to human rights, problems, namely the question of sexual and reproductive health and of sexual and reproductive rights. These include all possible issues, such as female genital mutilation, the question of HIV/AIDS and other sexually transmitted diseases, but also equal rights, regardless of sexual orientation, the reduction of maternal mortality and infant mortality, safe births, the fight against sexual violence and, above all, family planning. Since autumn 2011 we are 7 billion people on this earth. It is necessary to emphasize on this one and only earth that we have. Population growth Of course, there are many other challenges, such as problems relating to questions: How do we feed all these people? How do we fight poverty among more and more people? How do we deal with resources and energy? What are we doing about climate warming, which is getting faster and faster with more people? How do we deal with an ever larger urbanization, or how do we manage to keep health care facilities or education step by step with the more people? All of these topics are highly relevant to development policy. There are several scenarios at international scientific level, how the population could develop until the end of this century, i.e. until less than 90 years. The highest scenario is a nearly quadruple of the current population and is 26.8 billion people. I think it is necessary to discuss that the Earth will probably not be able to feed all of these, to supply water with cetera, with the current means and possibilities. But even in the scenarios where we actively do something politically and plan population development politically and put in place the corresponding measures, we still count on 15 billion people at the end of this century and, at the best, 10 billion people. So there's another serious increase. Natural resources, of course, do not grow as quickly or as rapidly as the population grows. In the case of drinking water, energy sources and rare earths and many other raw materials, this is quite clear. But there are other resources in which we ourselves can do something to make them grow. But one really has to do something politically in order to grow, such as the question of educational institutions. We currently have a population increase of about 78 million people per year. That is, if we only want to maintain current education – we do not talk about expanding what we really want – we need 1.5 million teachers each year. Training this means enormous effort. It is also in the health system: It is in sub-Saharan Africa in particular that more than every second birth does not take place – without midwives, without doctors – and that maternal mortality in Africa, for example, is 1 : 31 – the probability of dying of the consequences of a birth – while in Austria, for example, it is 1 : 250,000. This population growth must be slowed down. If this succeeds, then a so-called demographic window arises, i.e. there are more workable people than old people and children to be cared for. One can invest this money, which saves one from it, in infrastructure, in public care, in a better future for these people. In this sense I would very much like to see that in the next foreign policy report we can also read something about this issue of sexual and reproductive human rights, which, of course, is also associated with the teaching of relevant policies, for example of UNFPA, which makes a very, very good policy on this issue. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e14045	As the last speaker on this item on the agenda, Mr Weninger has four minutes of voluntary speaking time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e14067	Mr President. Mr. Foreign Minister! I would also like to thank my group once again for this very comprehensive and informative report. Today's debate in plenary on the current issues of Austrian foreign policy has shown, contrary to debates on other issues, which are mostly more emotional, that we in the plenary are able to conduct a high-quality debate, despite partly different positions in the field of foreign policy. I also believe that this report shows that Austria's foreign policy is not only in a long, very good tradition of active Austrian foreign policy, but has not only been extended in recent years, but is very spontaneous and currently also being adapted to the changes in our society worldwide. Also, Mr Foreign Minister, thank you very much to the staff in the Foreign Office, but also to the colleagues in the Committee on Foreign Affairs. I would nevertheless like to take up a point on which Mrs Cortolezis-Schlager has animated me, namely the internal relationship between foreign, European and development policy. I would like to call into question the fact that everything has to be under the primacy of external economic policy for my group. As much as I welcome the foreign policy commitment of Austria, for example in the Danube region and in the Black Sea area, I am very much concerned by the increasing domination of foreign policy over development policy. Development cooperation must not be understood as a small, negligible building block of external economic policy, but is an important instrument of Austrian foreign policy. I regret, of course, like Mr Schwentner of the Greens, the low disbursement of development aid with only 0.32% of GDP, but above all the withdrawal of Austria from the previously very successful Central American and West African priority countries. In fact, over many years and decades, Austria has developed a good reputation for very concrete projects that have significantly improved the living conditions of people in Central America and West Africa. Of course, it is also necessary to coordinate policy development aid measures and to coordinate them with the European institutions and with the special organizations of the United Nations. However, we should also highlight in this area a certain independence of Austrian foreign policy, an independent profile, recognizable structures and own development policy approaches. This has brought Austria – and I am with Mr Scheibner – through many years the attribute of an active state in the international community, with all its peace-making, human rights and economic benefits. This has brought us great recognition in much of the world, especially in the Middle East, in Central and Latin America and in much of Africa. Austria – and here I can’t calm those who can start a little less with development policy – alone can’t save the world, but we can be an active part of an integrated world internal policy. For this, Mr President, you have the full support of the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e14115	No one is reporting on this. I therefore conclude the debate. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We now come to the vote on the request by the Committee on Foreign Affairs to take note of this report III-250 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of taking note of it to give a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Hübner, colleagues, on the list of diplomat passport holders in the Federal Government's foreign and European policy report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. [[Abg. Street: Against transparency! That's typical!]] We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Neubauer, colleagues and colleagues on the anchoring of Austria's protective power function for South Tyrol in the Constitution and the elimination of fascist relics in South Tyrol. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We come to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Huber, colleagues, on the support of the German language islands in Upper Italy by ensuring access to Austrian media and the possibility of German-speaking teaching. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to give a sign. – That too is the minority. The application is rejected. [[13:35:14]] 2. Point report of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the report by the Subcommittee on Amendment No 1213/A(E) by Dr Johannes Hübner, colleagues, on the reduction of staff levels at the Austrian Development Agency (ADA) (1547 final)
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e14185	We're now on the 2nd. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mr Hübner spoke. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e14212	Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I take the liberty to say a few more sentences about Hungary, because that can't stop: The Minister has said that he is going to do so. Speaking, he'll listen to the arguments. Mr Bartenstein said that this is a serious matter, since three infringement proceedings have at least been initiated. Please, let us take a look at what the three infringement procedures are, after Mrs Reding and the Commission have been around for a quarter of a year, inventing a infringement procedure against Hungary. First of all, on the independence of the Central Bank: The subject of the procedure here is that the Minister of Economic Affairs may participate in the meetings of the Monetary Council and that the agendas of the meetings must be forwarded to the Minister in advance. – attack on independence. That's the first case. It is even worse in the case of justice: Attack to Justice, "fascist system" for the Greens, immigration of democracy. The pension age for judges is reduced there from 70 to 62 years. Reasons: This would be essential in terms of standards and values of the EU that professional groups should be treated differently only if there are reasons for matter, and that would not have been mentioned by the government. Take a look in Austria at how the individual stand-by-pension rights differ from each other! Take notes, lawyers and so on! - No topic. And the last, especially bad: Data protection authority. There is the possibility that the President of the Data Protection Authority may be amputated by the President or Prime Minister. There are two thirds of the European countries, I can say, similar provisions. That's all. And that is the “attack to democracy”. This is something that the President of the European Parliament, Schulz, can go up to claim that we should learn from Austria, namely Austria in 2000. There it was shown how to blow the game – so he called it – how to blow the part Haider/Schüssel with the help of Mr. Klestil. So that's the thing. For a country like Austria, which is neighbor, which is economically so connected with Hungary, I think it needs more foreign policy to No than to say: We will go there once and we will hear the opinion critically there. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But now to the request itself. This, in turn, is about the fact that a system that is not unknown in Austria presupposes that the administration consumes a large part of the total expenditure and that only very, very slow action is being taken here. It is about the ADA, which was created in 2003 as a “examination” of the management of development aid from the department 7 of the Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs, has had a steadily growing workforce and has to manage a constantly shrinking or, at least, stagnant, real but shrinking budget. It was 150 people in 2008, 2009 it was 152, 2010 and 2011 it has become a little less; but these numbers are not published, I have not. The Minister will tell us now that this has gone a little back, because we had to make a savings budget there. They do not manage 0.3 percent of GDP, that is our ADA rate, which would be at least 1 billion €, because 150 people would be nothing at all, but they only manage bilateral development aid, that is, what Austria does directly for states and does not pay into any international organizations and funds. According to the Annual Report – the last available in 2010 – this is an operating budget of €82.7 million. Management of development aid € 82.7 million they, and for staff costs there is a basic support of € 11.7 million. That's where you see the misunderstanding. If one is to provide development aid, then it is reasonable. That means: Little administration, a lot of effectiveness. Not to have offices in six, seven countries – everything will be reduced, but it will be very, very slowly reduced – but to actually use the money you use for development aid and not for administration. That is why we are proposing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e14281	Next speaker: Mr Glaser. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e14303	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr Hübner and the Freedom Party once again enjoy their favorite theme: development cooperation and the employment status in the ADA. In fact, it is that you prefer nothing in this area – neither money nor people who deal with it. The fact is that the ADA is already responding to the reduction of funds. Currently 128 people are employed, in 2014 there will be only 99 people. This arbitrary reduction to 60 people you propose would no longer allow meaningful, quality, competence-oriented development cooperation. That is why we will not agree. In principle, it is about you simply seeing development cooperation as something that is not necessary. You also say in your request some things about the Millennium Goals and how we should achieve them, and I wonder if you want to achieve the Millennium Goals at all, whether you want to confess to them or whether you even want to use money for them. It has already been remembered to you what we understand among the Millennium objectives. Whether you're for it or not, I'd like to ask you that. Among other things, the Millennium Goals call for the reduction of hunger and poverty or for the elimination of primary education for all children worldwide to ensure that gender equality is achieved, that HIV/AIDS, malaria and other diseases are reduced, that we want to achieve a sustainable environmental policy worldwide and live global partnership. – These are the Millennium Goals. The question is: Do you want that, or don't you want it? We express our commitment to this, and if we do not succeed in achieving that by 2015, we will still feel further connected to these goals. The same applies to the sum currently spent: You say it's 0.3 percent, and it sounds like you'd regret it's only 0.3. The fact is that we will be reaching the 0.5 this year and also in the coming years. This is still not what we should achieve, but much more than you say. The Millennium Goals, development cooperation, are simply about fundamental rights, about human rights. It is about whether every person in this world has the opportunity to live a decent life. It is about every person, every people, having the opportunity to develop and develop. It's about removing barriers. And we confess to that. We know that To this end, money is needed. We know that committed people are necessary. That is why we reject your request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e14348	The next speaker was Mr Huber. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e14369	Mr President. Federal Minister! Yes, development aid and development cooperation are important and correct, but it's a bit about how. Let us remember, for example, that the Federal Government has provided €7.5 million for aid at the Horn of Africa in Somalia! This money is insanely important to this country, and that is right. But how is Austria doing? – Any NGOs get the money provided, and no one can control it. If you want to control the aid, these NGOs are usually no longer there. I think that's the wrong way. Development aid and human rights are important. Human rights are 2,000 years old. Human rights belong to defended, it needs money to do so. But how do we spend these funds if we are developing cooperation when we are providing development aid? – Our society already has a right to benefit from these funds exclusively or largely from Austrian businesses. These funds should also be able to create new jobs and secure existing ones here in Austria, because only in this way can we have a chance that these funds can somehow return to the budget. We remember that 2009 was a delegation of the House in Bhutan. In Bhutan, the ADA has built a tourism school and financed it entirely, an excellent project. But I asked questions about how the ADA works: For example, the kitchen facility is worth € 1 million and this order has been awarded to a German company in full. However, the invitation to tender took place in such a way that no Austrian company could ever have been able to offer or received an invitation. If the ADA deals with the hard-earned money of taxpayers, we must ask ourselves seriously: Is that what we want? Is that what our society wants? I mean, it's the wrong way if only foreign companies profit from our tax money. If the ADA gives orders and completely forgets the effectiveness of the Austrian economy, then I think it is really time for the employees to be reduced. It may not be that the administration will be increased if the money is reduced. That's the wrong way. It is important that Austrian companies also benefit from providing development aid. Then development aid makes sense. Then we can also develop this with a calm conscience. I am sure that we need to provide reasonable development aid and that we can. We must also comply with the objectives we have in mind and at some point achieve. But we need a system in which the money is fairly distributed, so that people where the aid has to arrive really have prospects. The people are also meant to make their own economy with Austrian equipment, with Austrian know-how. We should not listen when associations like the ADA, which is distributed, pay millions without tendering to any international corporations ==References== This could lead to a bad side-effect at some point in time.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e14418	The next speaker was Mrs Hakel. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e14439	Mr President. Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! Slightening, transparency, efficiency – when many Austrians hear these keywords, they immediately think of a reform in Austrian administration and in public life. They think of the reduction and reorganisation of state agencies and thus of a more cost-effective organisation. They are thinking of job reduction on the one hand, but on the other hand they are also thinking of the targeted construction of jobs where labour force is urgently needed. In these words, Austrians think of a meaningful use of means of taxation and an increase in the quality of various benefits. I think that's very essential. It's not about reducing and saving through postage reduction. It is about the sensible use and efficiency-enhancing restructuring of state structures and expenditure. Financial savings are the logical consequence. Any inconceivable reform, any redeployment of the administration in places where personnel are needed, and any savings at the wrong corner, however, mean setbacks. This is certainly not what our country needs. This applies to all areas of public life, to schools, to ministries, to hospitals, to state governments, to public transport, to the Austrian Parliament, to national defence and many more. This also applies to Austrian development cooperation and the legal mandate to be fulfilled by the Austrian Development Agency. The reduction in the number of employees of the ADA would be a reform that we must understand as unadvanced. It is precisely the opposite of the objective of raising Austrian development cooperation to a European standard. We are already far away from this standard. It represents a further step back in development cooperation and thus the abandonment of valuable know-how and the expertise that the ADA has built up in recent years, and with which it operates and supports meaningful, high-quality work. Further, we assume from a global perspective that millions of people continue to be unbearable and forced to flee if they want to create a chance of survival and a life perspective for themselves and their children. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, that cannot be our goal! But above all, I am very sceptical about this proposal, because the ADA has been trying for several years to keep up with tight budget resources and is still on a successful course. The closure of several coordination and liaison offices between 2009 and 2011 and the forthcoming closure of other offices has already responded to the expected budget situation. The number of employees in regions that are no longer focused on has already been reduced. A staffing position of less than 100 in 2014 will be the consequence of this and other measures. It is important to note that despite savings, the ADA has managed to keep the funding volume to NGOs stable. Within the framework of three funding instruments, about €17 million was available for the work of Austrian organisations at home and abroad – an amount that has not been changed in 2011 and will continue to be available until 2014. Ladies and gentlemen! I understand this approach to ensuring high-quality work by means of the following keywords and thus by making the most of existing resources.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e14487	As the last speaker on this item on the agenda, Mrs Mag. Schwentner speaking for 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e14509	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! One more moment: The fact that what is happening in Hungary in terms of democracy, human rights and constitutionally more than terrifying and annoying, to a certain degree, or more or less completely defend, is not surprising to me. I am now addressing this to the FPÖ, not to the general plenary. I have previously meant, in relation to the foreign policy report and the positioning of the official Austria, that I would have wished there to be a clearer positioning, and not just now. I also welcomed the fact that you are going to Budapest to get a position, but it would have been appropriate to make clear statements for a long time – also due to the historical and neighboring responsibility of Austria. I miss it. That's it. You think otherwise, I'm not surprised. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mrs Cortolezis-Schlager, I do not play out economic interests, human rights and democratic interests in development policy against each other, but I believe that this must interfere and happen to each other. I cannot resist the impression that many strategic orientations of Austrian development policy as part of foreign policy are being put forward to the economic interests of Austria, and thus I am referring specifically to the region around the Black Sea. Suddenly, certain strategies are being relocated in the development policy previously planned, and now, where the Nabucco Earth Gas Pipeline is being moved, we are also active in development policy. There is nothing against it, there is enough to do there, but the impression that the interest in it is economically dominant is strong. Minister! You don't have to do that until now. – Not that I would not welcome that. Now to your request: I am not just skeptical as my colleague Hakel, I absolutely reject the request. You'll be able to imagine why. Mr Hübner! As far as I remember, this is your first proposal for development policy. [[Call the FPÖ:And, is that bad?]] I can't remember you ever getting involved when it came to development policy. Neither are you particularly active in the Committee, nor do you meet at events, no matter at any level. I would say that your interest in development policy is relatively low. It's all the more interesting that you're just starting with these simple coordinates. Colleague Hakel has defined it beautifully: It's about administration and saving, because it's going to get in quickly with people: The management can be quickly saved, which is nothing worth it in the context. First: It has already been mentioned that the ADA is already being massively saved, so far as it is questionable whether the ADA can still guarantee the fulfilment of its mission, namely to implement development projects in the country of Austria and thus a significant and important part of foreign policy for me. In this context, I would like to respond briefly to Mr Huber: I would ask that development cooperation and development policy should not always be confused with disaster aid. That's one thing, and that's very important. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Huber.]] You're very insecure the people by saying time and again that any NGOs get this money and that it's all sluggishing. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Huber.]] Millions of donations, but millions of taxpayers will also be invested in large and recognised NGOs such as the International Red Cross, Caritas and other very broad and very professional organisations. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Don't do this bad, and don't worry about the people who invest in it! Not only tax money is invested, but also a lot of private money. The people in Austria are very open to what is necessary for development policy and want us to assume our responsibility here. That is why I believe that it is time to tackle it strategicly in such a way that we make it transparent what Austria is doing on good projects, that we perceive the opportunity to discuss this openly and always link Austria's commitment back to the population. [[Call the BZÖ:And allow control!]] It is important what we are doing, and we are carrying out very important projects. I see a hope in State Secretary Waldner, who is not here today, but has established a Jour fixe. He's trying to have a dialogue. It is only to be kept in mind that this dialogue is not being conducted unilaterally, that the diplomats of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs are sitting in the front and that we are listening to what the projects are. Instead, we should engage in a genuine dialogue and also consider how to make development cooperation so transparent that it will also be communicable. Because what is happening is very important, and I therefore reject the request to reduce the staff of the ADA even further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e14580	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. We now proceed to the vote on the request from the Committee on Foreign Affairs to take note of its report 1547 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. [[13:57:46]] 3rd. Point Report by the Committee on Justice, Public Health and Consumer Protection on amendment 1773/A by Mr Mag. Barbara Prammer, Fritz Neugebauer, Mag. Albert Steinhauser, colleagues and colleagues on a Federal Law on the Repeal and Rehabilitation of and Rehabilitation Act 2011 Amendment No 475/A(E) by Mr Mag. Albert Steinhauser, colleagues on the rehabilitation of victims of the Austrofascism and on the Amendment 1400/A(E) by Mrs Mag. Albert Steinhauser, colleagues on the rehabilitation of judicial victims of Austrofascism (1644 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e14652	We're now on the 3rd. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mr Neugebauer has spoken on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e14679	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) For a long time, the events that culminated in the armed and civil war-like events of February 1934 in a non-democratic way were a mortgage in the cooperation of the political camps involved in the conflict after 1945, so they remained hidden from democratic consensus. When you hide back into the First Republic and look at how the big parties met, you see that you have spoken of each other than the enemy camp. I think that Second Republic can claim that it has initiated a phase of reconciliation and mutual respect. This may well have begun with the joint experience in the storage streets of the concentration camps. I am just recalling the attempt to rework the time of the authoritarian state: Federal Chancellor Gorbach, Vice-Chancellor Pittermann and her joint visit to the graves of the victims of both sides. ==References== A few years ago – in 2004 – there were remarkable steps taken here in the House by Presidents Khol and Fischer: in a symposium, which I believe has also given room for reconstitution and reconciliation. I would like to thank you very much for the very practical discussions that have been held far away from debt allocations and now result in a law of abolition and rehabilitation in connection with the victims of justice from 1933 to 1938. This “law includes the circle of persons between 6 and 6 years of age. ==References== In March 1938, he was sentenced or detained by the administrative authorities, because he was committed to the preservation of an independent and democratic Austrian country.” – This is the formulation that we have also found in connection with the Code of Victim Care. Judgments and fines of the Special and Statutory Courts and ordinary Criminal Courts as well as decisions on the order of arrests shall be removed retroactively. We have not, of course, included in the rehabilitation – this is what applies to those who are rehabilitated to the extent of the lifting of criminal judgments – those who agitate for the “connectation” or who have also expressed their support for concrete dictatorships, whatever their nature. In addition, all those who have spoken and committed themselves between November 1918 and March 1938 to an independent democratic and historical task of conscious Austria in word and in fact, the recognition of the Republic. Ladies and gentlemen, This is a recognition due to those who have been wronged in the sense of a rule of law. But we also express compassion to the victims and their descendants for the extent of the suffering they have suffered. I would like to thank you very much for these constructive discussions: you, Madam President, with Mr Mag. Steinhauser, but also with those who have worked for us, not only our close employees, but I also thank Professor Rathkolb as well as our colleagues. Mrs. Federal Minister, I can also tell you that the Federal Ministry of Justice has always taken advantage of Georg Krakow's expertise. Ladies and gentlemen! This is a three-party agreement, which once again provides a positive example of constructive parliamentary cooperation after the rehabilitation of the Wehrmachtsdesereure. I would like all political groups to give their approval to this law of repeal and rehabilitation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e14753	The next speaker was Mr Jarolim. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e14774	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I can only agree fully with the remarks here. There is often the reference to historical hours. One should not exaggerate that, but that is indeed a historic hour in the Second Republic today. It is a historic hour in the history of our country, a great day for the country, for democracy, for the rule of law, and ultimately for the dealings with each other. We are taking a very big step in reworking our history here. It was not always easy – Mr President Khol mentioned it – we have tried this more often. [[Call the Greens:Newborn!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bitch.]] [[Abg. Neugebauer: So put me in the same position as Khol!]] That's from the old clothes collection. We found this place together, didn't we? This shows how important it is, and that if one seeks solutions to one another out of respect in parliamentarianism, one will ultimately find them. I can still remember the discussions. We first proposed a common solution here in 2002 and discussed this with President Khol – and that is right now. There was the willingness to jump more or less over shadows that were historically already set out to recognize historical facts, actually very small. In this context, it has often asked the question of how we can proceed here, and any indication that the regime was not only authoritarian, but also for democracy, for the young Republic was fatal and ultimately also contributed to the weakening of our common power in the struggle against National Socialism, against fascism, was, of course, not a basis. It was then thanks to God that the survey event presented by President Neugebauer took place. The situation has slowed down, and it has become possible – even with historical, scientific accompaniment – to pave the way and say: We are ready to approach the past openly; we are willing to deal with the past in such a way that we no longer want to acknowledge historical truths. That means that we have eventually grown mature, and it is therefore possible that we all those who between 6. ==References== In March 1938, victims, committed themselves, thanked and together also express recognition. When it comes to thanking, of course I would like to join this in full. It is people like Prammer and Neugebauer who have conducted the negotiations, Mr Steinhauser, who has contributed very much, but also Professor Rathkolb, Ernst Nedwed and many, many others – there is no claim to completeness. It has actually succeeded in showing recognition, in deciding to rehabilitate, which is necessary for the last survivors who still exist to prove the reverential, but also in principle historically disregarding the fact that this has been the right action. Therefore, for social democracy in particular, names such as Münichreiter, Weisel, Wallisch are not only concepts that can be associated with the historical context at that time, but these persons are still models of faith in it because of their incorruptible commitment to democracy, to the rule of law. I would therefore like to thank everyone once again for this act of political maturity that we have solved a piece of history, which until recently was very controversial, in a way worthy of our country. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e14830	Mr Fichtenbauer has been mentioned as the next speaker. 3 minutes are adjusted as desired. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e14851	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! If, so to speak, an hour of celebration has been announced, we do not want to ruin the feast. Despite the very critical attitude we have expressed in the Committee on Justice for good reasons, we find that the law meant better reconciliation law instead of rehabilitation law, because there are, of course, some comments to make. Of course, history is blazed in the explanatory statement and with the literal inclusion of the victim care law in the legal text. Some of them were the battles that took place in the 12th century. On the occasion of the arms search of the executive on the occasion of the forces of the Social Democratic Protection League at the Hotel Schiff in Linz, Bernashek took action against the instructions of the Social Democratic Party, not a fight for democracy. Or maybe they were? But then you have to take the democratic concept of struggle very seriously, not a problem. One could debate this very thoroughly: At what time in the period of oppression, which undoubtedly existed – no debate – does the right to take up arms against tyranny begin? Very difficult – very problematic! In any event, at the last meeting of the Social Democracy in October 1933 in Ottakring, through the mediation of the non-confrontation forces of social democracy – in particular Körner – three conditions were mentioned as a prerequisite for taking up the armed struggle: First of all, in the case of bans, forced resolution of social democracy – that was not the case; second, in the case of forced decommissioning of trade unions – that was not the case; thirdly, in the case of the forced resolution of the Social Democratic Government of Vienna – that was not the case. All of this came later – bad enough – but at the time of the opening of the fighting by Bernashek and his people the conditions were not given. Of course, it would have been very good if we had been involved a little bit in these preliminary consultations, because if we were to jump back a little bit in causality, we would necessarily come to the “self-absorbing of the National Council” which I do not want to call as such. It was a resignation of the three presidents on the occasion of the deliberations on 5 May. ==References====External links==* Official website And the Third President – the Grand German Third President of the National Council – took place on 15 July. In March 1933, his decision to withdraw was re-assembled and called on Parliament to re-examine. There were 60 social-democratic and large German Members together. The session took ten minutes, and it was forced to end by 200 criminal officers who appeared in Parliament. So it's like this: A stone overturned the next one, then the next and so on. As a whole, it's a big deal to me: A total of 480 – the figures are contentious – became members of the executive victims, 120 of them were killed, the rest wounded. They are in battle because of their duty to serve. There has been no struggle between the German Army and the Home Office, but the fight against executives. You would also have deserved to be thought of with a large memorial stone. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Because the divisional police officer, who was shot by a hedge shooter from the Karl Marx court, has chosen another fate – also his widow and his children. Perhaps we can still think about the missing parts of this rehabilitation or reconciliation project to which we congratulate Parliament today – we do not want to stand away; of course, it is about reconciliation beyond the graves, but it is still piecework.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e14920	The next speaker was Mr Walser. 7 minutes time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e14942	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! High house! Mr Fichtenbauer, the police, the members of the executive, the federal army, who were killed during the February struggles, cannot and must not be rehabilitated. They were never accused and therefore this question does not arise. President Neugebauer and Mr Jarolim have pointed out the historical dimension of this law today. I can only underline this and say that it will be decided at a time when we will have a good right to this era at the beginning of the 1930s. I remember that this was the time when fascism was at the door not only in Austria, but it was a European phenomenon – triggered by an economic crisis, triggered by a blind-worn saving of governments, namely a saving of the poor and the poorest of society. At the time, this policy has led to opposition almost insisting on resistance and, of course, people were susceptible to political rat fishing. That is why we are doing a good job today. Remind me. Mr Fichtenbauer! It's not a history thing we're doing here, no, it's a rework. It is in this respect a historical law when, at last, a certain normality is introduced in Austria, which is the view of the High House and in this case – surprisingly, the Freedom Party agrees, as it has not yet been the case in the Committee – which is due to the consideration of the period from 1933 to 1938. For the first time, we establish that it was wrong, what happened at that time, for the first time, this injustice clause is in it. For the first time, we are expressing respect for those who have defended democracy, and very probably also in February 1934. Very well, it was about maintaining republican principles of democratic principles, because what, if not resistance, is said if Parliament is detained with police and federal forces and prevented from regular meetings? When, if not at such a time, is resistance announced? And of course this resistance was legitimate – that is not a question for us at all. [[Congratulations on the Greens as well as on representatives of the ÖVP.]] I also consider the connection to the victim care law to be quite practical. In all the criticism that we can exercise – together – in this law: The basic classification that was made at the time was a practical one, because it is important – and this is the central point today – that we express the recognition that has just taken place for this independent and democratic Austria. That was a conscious decision. The National Socialists, of course, are not involved in this, and therefore this decision was, of course, alternatively non-existent. The term fascism does not appear. We would have liked that. This would have made for more clarity. We could have been able to relate here to great post-war politicians – like Leopold Figl – who used this term very well. We could've gotten to laws, too. I am thinking, for example, of the liberation rate in which this term is very common. However, the contents fit, and therefore there was no question that we would agree to this in order to finally bring this taboo theme to a solution, because since 1945 there has been no real debate in this House, but spontaneous conflicts over this very question again and again. When Chancellor Faymann in February 2009 said that there was no need for action, and that involved talking to historians over and over again, it was clear to us: We have to act. Mr Steinhauser and I then wrote a letter to historians of this country – some are there too – which has led to the fact that it took three years, but at least it has come to a conclusion that we can be quite proud of, as I believe. I remember that, for example, people like Fritz Probst have resisted and are still alive people who are affected. I remember that the children and grandchildren of these people are also affected. I would like to thank someone who has not yet been mentioned: State Secretary Ostermayer. He intervened at a very critical time and made a significant contribution to the fact that we can have a positive outcome today. I think this law is suitable. It is a comparative view of the past. President Neugebauer rightly mentioned this. Mr President. We may now also need the Elan for a future-looking law. I think of the school system in particular. Perhaps our reform Elan will also be sufficient if we take this power to tackle a comprehensive educational reform. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to conclude by saying: Today's decision is a decision worthy of democracy, it is a decision that, if we properly transport and live it, can help to strengthen democratic awareness in our country. And that, we are sure, is necessary in the present situation. We do not need any conditions in Austria as we currently have in many European countries. This we prevent from dealing with as we did in the preparation of this law. I expressly thank you for that.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e15048	Next speaker: Mr Hagen. 4 minutes of time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e15069	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! I already have a little to say to Mr Walser when he says that there should be no mention of police and federal army members who have also left their lives at that time. I believe that it is already important – and there Mr Fichtenbauer is right – that these people are not forgotten either. They have done a great service to democracy using their lives, and this can never be held high enough, Mr Walser. [[Abg. Strache: The Communists did not fight for democracy either!]] But let's get to the law. This law provides for the retroactive abolition of decisions of the courts and courts, as well as the ordinary criminal courts of the time of Austrofascism and the rehabilitation of judicial victims in this regard. In concrete terms, the group of persons between the 6th and the 6th shall be recorded. ==References== On March 23, 1938, he was sentenced to criminal, administrative, or civilised, because he – and that is, I believe, the important point – has been used for the preservation of an independent and democratic Austria. I think that's the key statement. Such judicial convictions and penalties of the special and standing courts or ordinary criminal courts as well as decisions on the order of arrests shall be reversed. In a separate rehabilitation clause, it is explicitly stated that those concerned are rehabilitated to the extent of the lifting of criminal judgments. Also, all those who stand between the 12th and the 12th will be ==References== In March 1938, Austria, conscious of its history and its independent democratic role, was democratically committed to the recognition of the Republic. I think that's also a good sign that this is subsequently being held high. We live in a democracy. We like to live in a democracy, and here we were certainly bridge builders of this democratic system, from which we benefit again today, and I believe that recognition is justified here. By means of an application at the National Criminal Court Vienna is intended to allow affected persons or their spouses, registered partners, partners and relatives to make a similar statement in a straight line or in a sibling. In addition, a Rehabilitation Advisory Board will be set up in the Federal Ministry of Justice, which can examine each case individually, and the Court's request is to deliver an opinion and to look closely at the historical facts. Here it is ensured that those who are meant to come to the train. And that's why we find it's a good solution. We have already voted in the Committee on Justice, because we are convinced of the good thing, and of course we will be happy to vote in favour of this law today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e15106	Madam President, I am speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Prammer. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e15127	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Very rarely I perceive my right to speak from the speaker's desk, but today's discussion about this law of abolition and rehabilitation is already a situation for me that absolutely requires it. [[Abg. Shame!]] First of all, I would like to draw your attention to what are my personal reasons for referring to this law. I have very personal reasons. Many of you know that I came from the community of Ottnang at the Hausruck. The village of Holzleithen is located in Ottnang am Hausruck. ==References====External links== February 1934, in which case not the 12th, will always remain inseparably connected. Therefore, exactly these events in February 1934 marked my family, they shape it to this day, and they – I have experienced it as a girl, as a young woman – have created a deep gap in the society of this community that has not been overcome for a long time. I therefore remember with great satisfaction that time – a few years ago – when a small cultural club in my home community Ottnang began to initiate a huge theatre project. Franzobel wrote it; Forged leitner staged it. More than 100 volunteer, volunteer laity actors have played along, along with very prominent actors, and the preparation for this play, “hunt or total February” has been called, has contributed incredibly much to the fact that it was finally possible to talk about it in this historicly very characteristic community, even in the families. And if I face this situation alone, I know that the historical work of this time will not be completed for a long time. What we can do and do today is to decide a law that helps us in this process: law, history and politics, if you want to do so. And that's how I understand this law. I would therefore like to take the opportunity, in my speech, to speak a little on the victim groups. In the narrower sense, the judgments of political justice are lifted and their victims are rehabilitated. Who are these victims? – The victims are first of all the people who stood right after the February struggles in these 140 stand-by courts. Several dozen people were executed or sentenced to death, nine of whom were executed immediately. I therefore recall today very explicitly the National Councillor Koloman Wallisch from Bruck on the Mur, the Linz worker Anton Bulgi, the Vienna Schuster Karl Münichreiter, the Floridsdorf fire brigade Georg Weissel, the building castler Josef Ahrer from Steyr, the Wiener Schutzbundführer Emil Svoboda, the Graz metal worker trader Josef Stanek, the Rohrbacher Schutzbundkommander Johann Hois and his men as well as the Viktor Rauchenbergerer. I am of course also thinking in this law of those persons who were sentenced to death by the Special Courts in the following months. The most prominent example we all have in mind is the unemployed Viennese youth Josef Gerl – a story of our own. Those persons who have been sentenced in the ordinary criminal justice proceedings in the following years are also covered by this law. I remember the Vienna Schutzbund process of 1935 and the great Socialist process in 1936. Especially from this process there are very prominent convicts: Maria Emhart, Bruno Kreisky, Anton Proksch. And especially in this category – that is what historians and historians tell us – there is still a lot of work to be done. We will also define and express the injustice character of various persecution measures by this law. Of course, all of this is particularly marked by the events in the period from 12 to 19. ==References== I have already mentioned it, I come from Ottnang, Holzleithen is a part of it. What's in Holzleithen on 13 March? February 1934 happened? – There were conflicts, the protective federal members fled. By the way, the leader of this protective group also died, so to speak, in the middle of the machine gunfire. But what exactly happened in Holzleithen? – It has been overrun by the labourer’s home, also occupied by the military, occupated, overrun. Who found himself in it? – Six paramedics, unarmed paramedics, six men. And it was not long thought about what is being done, but they were all six on the stage of the workers' home, which was already decorated for a carnival festival, put and shot at the stand. Four of them died, two survived. These six names are: Andreas Kropatschek, Franz Holzinger, Josef Schmidt, Anton Zarybnicky. These are the four dead. The two survivors are Josef Zarybnicky and Josef Hamminger. Josef Zarybnicky has grown very old. I had the joy and the honor of knowing him well. I think it took a lot of calls for this law, that it was far from possible, but now we have come to a good – provisional, I would say – end. This law makes it possible to clearly define, rehabilitate and also to express respect and recognition. Finally, I would like to thank my colleague, Mr Neugebauer, very much, who – I may say so at this point – has also had a lot of courage. I am expressly grateful to Mr Steinhauser, who has been the link to the Greens over and over again, and to all those who have also contributed to this bill and, I can assume, to this law decision. It is about letting people who have been wronged at this time, who have even lost their lives, be granted justice afterwards and no doubt very late. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e15170	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Steinhauser. 7 minutes time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e15191	Ladies and gentlemen! When two and a half years ago this House passed the Rehabilitation Act as the Wehrmachtsdesereuren, it was always clear to us that there was another chapter Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. And we've always wondered why this is so and whether it always has to stay that way. – These were the convictions in the era of Austrofascism. Much has been said about the convictions today. In the course of the February discussions alone, there have been 21 death sentences, numerous prison sentences and more than 10,000 arrests. It has always been strange for us that those who have advocated democracy, even if there has been an amnesty, were still condemned criminals before the law. It was clear, too, that was a contemporary mine field. I can still remember when I was sitting at a Monday-standard meeting, where former President Khol said a very meaningful sentence: For him, it is clear that the shooting of the National Councilman Koloman Wallisch was wrong and that it was not democratic that this was a sign that the time has now arrived to take the necessary step. There has then been the application of the Greens to this Rehabilitation Act, and there has been a judicial committee in which also was known, by SPÖ and ÖVP, that one wants to work out this time offensively in a Rehabilitation Act. It is always in the nature of the matter that the opposition is skeptical if the government has anything to do with it. I was never 100% sure that it was also very serious, but it was clear to us at the time: Yes, let us try and put this process in the hands of President Prammer and President Neugebauer. And finally, this process has also led to success. But it was long and tough negotiations. I think we have been negotiating with each other for two to two and a half years in tough and hard conversations. I have to say, however, that the conversations were pleasant, not because we were always of an opinion, but because I always had the impression, no matter what position is expressed, there is an interest in the position of the other and one is interested in one solution. Of course, we have also been helped by the fact that historians have made themselves very offensively known and have also made it quite clear that the rehabilitation step is necessary. There was still a draft in September, in which the Greens would not have approved it because it was too far-reaching from the framework. However, it was possible to have further discussions and now come to a conclusion that we can be proud of, which is comprehensive. It is not the end of contemporary research, that is clear – we have seen this again and again with the Wehrmachtsdessereuren and with other victim groups – but it is at least a good and important intermediate step, which nevertheless contains some remarkable findings: At the heart of this, of course, it is the collection of judgments, which is clear, towards all those who have stood for a democratic and independent Austria. However, the notices of arrests in Wöllersdorf are also lifted. That is to say, one goes beyond the classical range of judgments. Rehabilitation is pronounced. It is clearly stated that the judgments and arrests were wrong. I think this is a very important symbolic act. It is also stated that sovereign power has contradicted democratic principles against those who have advocated democracy. This is an important general clause because you need to know that there have been many forms of sanctions. In Vienna, for example, social democratic directors have been appointed. You can do that. You can't get rid of it, but you can make it clear as a legislator that this was wrong. The exercise of military command and forced force can also be done without reproach, but it can be said that it has contradicted democratic principles. The Republic expresses, as it were, recognition, respect for those who have spoken in favour of democracy. I believe – and I would like to say that right now in the direction of the Austrian People's Party – that the Austrian People's Party has moved. There is also my respect for this, and it is probably always easier to negotiate such a law as Greens, than in the case of their own party history. Ladies and gentlemen, if you make a law like this, you always ask yourself the question: Why do you make this law? – On the one hand, this law is being made, because that means that those who have advocated democracy are formally rehabilitated. But the law is also made for those who are still alive. In any case, there are two more freedom fighters known to me who live and are happy that they are still allowed to experience this law. But you do it for the family. And after presenting the law, a member of my family wrote to me, it is a professor of religion from Graz, who listens to the debate today. He wrote me his father's moving story. He wrote: My father was sentenced in the time of Austrofascism in the context of Trotsky Process. He then fled to France during National Socialism, which had not yet been occupied by Germany. There the French imprisoned him because they thought him a German spy. He was released again and was then imprisoned by the Nazis in the Buchenwald concentration camp. And because that was not enough – he was Trotskyist – he was arrested by the Soviets in 1947 in Upper Austria and imprisoned in a labour camp for eight years in Siberia. - Quote. You have to imagine that once! And the remarkable thing is that the judgments of the Soviets were lifted in the nineties, and this man was rehabilitated. The NS judgments have also been repealed – and today, as it were, the last building block of the rehabilitation of the father, Mr. Karl Fischer, has been set up by the law by lifting the judgments concerning the era of Austrofascism. I would like to express my thanks once again to those who have contributed: Madam President, thank you very much. Mr President Neugebauer, you were a very accurate, but a pleasant, interlocutors in the usual manner. However, I would also like to thank those who do valuable and important work in the background, and these are our employees, because – President and President will confirm it – these do the fine work, which makes the effortful negotiation work so that we can then also present solutions in the end. One was Katharina Klement, the other Katharina Stourzh and my Hannes Metzler, who listens to the gallery. By “my” I mean our green Hannes Metzler, who has negotiated for us. [[Congratulations on Greens, SPÖ and ÖVP.]] I would like to thank them very specifically for helping us with advice and action. I would like to thank the historians. I believe that we are taking an important and right step today and that we have thus prepared a judicial chapter, without hiding the fact that the work of the historians has now been carried out. kernen and the time historian will only begin. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e15288	Mr Herzegovina is speaking as the next speaker. 4 minutes of time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e15309	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to begin by thanking all those who have been involved, who have then decided later, and who may also be able to vote in favour of one, I hope, unanimous legislative decision. I would like to recall the fate of Koloman Wallisch, the Social Democratic Party Secretary, from a social democratic point of view – then from the highly esteemed Madam President and from Mr Steinhauser – once again. He was driven from Graz to Bruck in 1934 to help his family friends. Five thousand Schillings have been exposed to head money. ==References====External links== On February 19, 1934, on the flight from Leoben to Admont, he was arrested, sentenced to stand-alone law, and then on the next day, on February 19, 1934. ==References====External links== What were the crimes of the Colombian Welsh: That he Town council was in Bruck an der Mur? That he was Styrian State Party Secretary? That he was here in this House National Councillor? That he has campaigned against fascism, against dictatorship, for democracy, for a free Austria? Bertolt Brecht brings it to the point in the famous “Col. Wallisch Kantate”: “In February ’34 / The Humanity to Hone / Hang the Fighter / Against Hunger and Fron / Koloman Wallisch / Zimmermannssohn.” Koloman Wallisch has not only found entry into the world literature, but is also greatly revered in his narrow homeland. There is a Colombian-Wallisch-Platz in Leoben, in Kapfenberg, in Bruck, and also here in Parliament, at the gate 4 at the entrance to the Socialist parliamentary group, there is a stone relief that reminds of Koloman Wallisch. This rehabilitation is therefore of great importance to Austrian social democracy, since hundreds of them are included, of which 140 are victims of special and stand courts alone. Ladies and gentlemen, quite honestly: I could not have voted in favour of the first draft, which is available in autumn. The term “injustice ” has not yet been defined in it, which is what is happening now. It is therefore clear, clear and unmistakable: It is about the crimes of justice of a totalitarian regime with the conditions and accompanying circumstances of the elimination of Parliament, about dictatorship, arbitrariness, injustice, crimes against humanity. That is why it is a historic law decision that is an important building block in the changing history of our country. The efforts of social democracy have been successful for decades. The tireless use of the Social Democratic Freedom Fighters is rewarded. It is a moving moment, a great day for social democracy. On behalf of the SPÖ, I should like to thank all those who have participated.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e15363	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Maier. 4 minutes of speaking time are adjusted as desired. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e15385	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! The historical work of the period from 1933 to 1938 has been overdue for a long time. The law of repeal and rehabilitation now in force also sets out democratic maturity, as it has already been mentioned today, and it contributes to the reprocessing process. But this political and historical work must continue. With this law we decide to repeal judicial decisions and modesty retroactively and we rehabilitate those who have committed themselves to an independent, democratic and historical task of Austria. High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! For me, however, the last sentence in § 4 para. 1, in which the following shall be recorded: ‘In particular, judgments within the meaning of § 1 para. 1 and Decide within the meaning of § 1 para. 2 Unlawful within the meaning of the rule of law.’ High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! The effects of this authoritarian and dictatorial form of state, namely the state, spread throughout Austria, to all the federal states. There were numerous judicial convictions, arrests, modestys in federal states, such as in my federal state, in Salzburg. There have also been numerous convictions here, and I would like to quote from some of these judgments. “Court of the Landesgericht Salzburg against Walter Hipf from Parsch for a breach of public peace and order, 3. ==References== The Landesgericht Salzburg (Landesgericht Salzburg) has rightly recognised the charge against public peace and order in accordance with § 300 of the law concerning the charges brought by the public prosecutor against Walter Hipf, born on 11.4.1917 in Bishops' Courts, Castleer's apprentice, unspoiled, currently in custody of investigation: The defendant is guilty, in spring or summer 1935 to Salzburg City in printed works whose production and dissemination of the authority was kept hidden, such as 1. the "Worker's Newspaper", No. 9, published in Brno, 2. the "Worker's Newspaper", No. 13, published in Brno, 3. the “10-Gross Crossword Puzzle”, No. 8, as a tangled envelope for the “Red Youth”, monthly writing of the revolutionary socialist youth of Austria, double number 3 and 4, May 1935, by reviling, mocking, untrue information and disposing of facts, detesting the orders and decisions of the authorities and in this way looking for others to hate and disdain state authorities to incite individual institutions of the Government in relation to their power of office. He's got this. Infringements against public rest and order in accordance with § 300 criminal law and is committed for this purpose in accordance with § 1 of the Federal Law, BGBl.Nr. 33/35, sentenced to the penalty of severe arrest in the duration of one year’. There is the judgment of the Landesgericht Salzburg against Josef Lechner and Franz Renner from Zell am See, also because of the violation of public peace and order. There was the judgment of the Landesgericht Salzburg against Matthias Schiess from Oberaml and other judgments against the public peace and order. High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! All these decisions are wrong within the meaning of the rule of law, and it is now through this law that all these persons are rehabilitated. Finally, I agree with the words of President Neugebauer: This law is an example of the constructive cooperation of the parliamentary parties. It is an invitation to everyone to vote in favour of this. However, historical and political work must continue.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e15465	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Is the rapporteur asking for a final word? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote on the draft law and its title and receipt in 1644 of the supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – That too is unanimous. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[Congratulations with SPÖ, ÖVP and Greens.]] [[14:50:36]] 4. Point Report of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on the Government template (1468, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law amending the Chemicals Act 1996 (ChemG-Novelle 2011) (1638 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e15526	We're now on the 4th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. First of all, Mr Ing. Schools. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e15554	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Grosz: We are now talking about Agenda item 4! I'm just telling you so you know!]] I am very pleased that we have the Chemicals Act to discuss today. Ladies and gentlemen, who are in principle opposed, as Mr Grosz, for example, said: I would like to thank your group, like all the political groups, for today's unanimous decision on the Chemicals Act. So: Get down with the emotion! We've done something good! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I am saying this because we occasionally have our confrontation issues in the environmental field, and that must be the case. Especially the field of chemistry is an area that for many people is associated with certain concerns and concerns, often with a fundamental aversion. With regard to this importance that chemical products have in our daily lives, it is very, very important that we know that here things are arranged, that nothing can be put into circulation, that is not investigated, and that the authorities and the public always know where products are manufactured, who wants to allow them, where they can be registered, where they are registered, and – most importantly – where you can get information about how the products can actually be handled. With our Chemicals Act, we have now brought together two legal bodies. One is the European REACH Directive and the other is the European CLP Directive. Both are about how to deal with chemicals. The interesting thing about this: Austria has already had a relatively good and high legal base on these issues, it has already been such that things were well-ordered, but with the entry into force of these European directives, it has been about creating legal certainty as quickly as possible on the one hand for the economy, for businesses, but, on the other hand, of course, also for the people who have to do with it on the other hand. You have to imagine, in chemical law, it goes from washing powder to the aggregate in construction, it goes from the color to the pickling agent. It is all contained in what we can encounter in everyday life as an artificial or synthetic substance. The corresponding department of the ministry was very long involved in the preparation of this chemical law. The Federal Minister has succeeded in establishing a good contact with the economy and has finally succeeded in discussing this law in agreement with all the political groups in this House. We also postponed the law in the Committee itself in the treatment, because it was necessary, on one hand, to make an amendment in order to ensure that the Minister of Health for Food's essential issues, including that, was also successful, and in the end we have also been able to deal with the issues relating to the safety data sheets and the information of consumers. That was a wish of the Greens. I believe that this law can be used to show that in a subject matter that is being properly dealt with, even without major political polemics in this House, something is done orderly. I would like to thank all those who have cooperated constructively, especially our Minister of State and, of course, his officials, including Dr. Jakl. At any rate, I can say that it would be nice if this matter, which concerns every Austrian in his daily life – so that he hopefully doesn't feel it and doesn't have to be annoyed – would also find the same public recognition, which enjoys so many unnecessary excitements of our opposition parties. Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you for your consent, thank you for your cooperation! Mr Federal Minister, congratulations on this law!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e15600	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e15622	Mr President. Estimated Minister! I would like to start with where Mr Schultes has stopped and explain a little how the whole thing happened in the committee, because, I think, it is a bit representative of how the opposition always operates black and white. We have discussed this before. Mr Pirklhuber, there are only three possibilities in the Committee: Either we reject a request or we are in favour of voting, or there is the possibility of postponement. That's where the whole thing gets defied over and over again. But here it is obvious that chemistry, nomen est omen, voted – it is about a very bulky subject and for itself; for non-immigrants in this subject it is rather a bit difficult; at a glance it has been described relatively well by my colleague Schultes about what it is all about – here there was no block, here one has seen that the adjournment really makes sense. I would ask the opposition, in the future, if it were to challenge the parties to the government coalition, to go in a little more and to be so objective and admit that the postponements have a general meaning. It's not black-and-white, it's not that you can be for something if some points are not yet matured, and you can't go over an application so unisono. In terms of content, I would like to say, at a glance, that: EU chemical law has been gradually developing in recent years. Mr Schultes, you have already mentioned at a glance that there was the EU REACH and CLP regulations. In order to implement these two regulations, we have already taken urgent legislative steps, and we are adapting them to this House. This ensured the implementation and enforceability of the main EU provisions for the first time. But the whole thing was relatively under time pressure, and the lack was in all cases that there were, so to speak, two legislative texts for the yet quite sophisticated legal matter of chemistry as a whole. So there was a novel of the Chemicals Act and the REACH Enforcement Act. Now, if we decide on this law today, there is a law, and I believe that then, in total, this legal matter is on two healthy legs. Under the rule, there are no significant costs either. There are simplifications in the administrative process as regards the administrative procedure, as well as simplifications for businesses. To sum up, I think, it is very justified that we delayed the whole thing at that time and that the legitimate objections from all possible sides have been introduced. This takes time when you are objective, and we have succeeded. Thank you very much, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e15668	The next item is Mr Pirklhuber. Because of the call to the Dringlicher, I'll send you the watch at 1 minute. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e15691	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! – Mr Auer, Mr Schultes, first of all: It is a good example of living parliamentaryism if the government groups take the critical remarks and proposals for improvement of the opposition seriously. They did this time. I would also like to praise the members of the Environment Agency, because the government template has already been significantly improved in relation to the original draft due to the reviews and, finally, by the improvements that have now been made to our suggestions, the safety for Austrian consumers that they can request a safety data sheet for each chemical product is guaranteed. That this is mandatory, binding and binding, as has already been the case in the Austrian law, has thus been achieved. Thank you very much in this context. I'll explain the other things after the urgent. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e15722	Mr Pirklhuber, your speech is therefore only interrupted, and you are again the first speaker after the examination of a urgent request to take place at 3 p.m. in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. [[15:00:47]] Request for urgent procedure by Mr Dieter Brosz, Mr MSc, Mr Orf: Party policy out, genuine independence pure (1807/A)(E)
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e15752	We now come to the urgent treatment of the self-employed application 1807/A(E). As he has now approached all the Members, his reading by the scribe is not sufficient. The urgent application has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e15893	I give the floor to Mr Brosz as an applicant for the urgent request. According to § 74a para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure shall not exceed 20 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e15918	Thank you, Mr President or President-in-Office, but I'm kind of going off the competent members of the government, or am I deceiving? – I assume we are waiting. [[Abg. Oillinger: The ORF is not so sick yet that the Minister of Health must come!]] [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] [[Abg. Dr. Bartenstein: That was the first really good sage from Mr. Ollinger!]] I certainly do not talk now without the competent members of the government to whom the emergency is addressed entering the house, because this cannot be the meaning of a urgent request or a request. Or, Madam President?
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e15977	So I know that the Federal Chancellor is coming, at least that's what I've been told. If that is the wish of the house – the Federal Chancellor is already here! You can continue.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e16004	Say hello, Federal Chancellor! Mr State Secretary! We write the 23rd. December 2011, a day before Christmas, and apparently it was the ORF's wish that this Christmas candlelight mood would allow a staff package to be carried out relatively without excitement in the country. The calculation, one can only say, has obviously failed: There was one of the most intense media-political debates that has occurred in Austria in recent years, if not decades, and this attempt is likely to go into history rather than a media-political Christbaumbrand than a successful tactical maneuver. But if you look at the current events, I think you can't do one thing: don't look back at the past. Media policy in Austria has been involved in party politics for decades. It was always part of the Austrian media landscape and in particular of Austrian radio that party policy decisions played a massive role there. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Mr Strobl knows well!]] I have made the effort or also made the pleasure of taking it exactly, to make central speeches, especially those of Armin Wolf, who have been held in recent years, on this occasion to pass a review and to make an assessment for me and for the Greens: Where are we today? What has changed in recent years? What has changed to the positive? And: Where are the approaches still completely inadequate? Armin Wolf received the Robert-Hochner Prize in 2006 and his speech, which many may still remember, was already something like a call for help on the one hand and the beginning of a very intensive public debate on how political influence in this country's public-law broadcasting is happening. In 2006 Armin Wolf mentioned two key reasons for the ORF's miscarriage, as he himself called it. He mentioned an internal reason and an external one. First of all, the internal reason. [[Abg. Rädler: The Kogler was there too!]] For him, the internal reason was the organisation of the information department of this company. At that time – that is the review of the year 2006, especially for the colleague head, and for the time of the then black and blue government – there was a system at that time where a central person was sitting in the ORF: the then editor-in-chief Werner Mück, who finally decided with thumbs up or thumbs below, which can be shown in this company and which cannot be shown. I quote Armin Wolf from 2006: ‘If all the information, ( ) from ‘Report’ to ‘Open’, from ‘Press hour’ to ‘thema’, from ‘High House’ to ‘World Journal’, is subject to a single person who can leave from the O-tones in the ‘ZIB 1’ to the studio guests in the ‘ZIB’, from the discussion participants ( ) to the selection of topics in the ‘Report’, then the extremely much power in the hands of a person will be concentrated. If this person were someone who actually exercises this power, then you could not blame him at all – the ORF is currently designed.” If you look at this picture, you have to say, at least on the basis of today's analyses – and you can also quote Armin Wolf again: This misconstruction of the ORF, which has been started massively under the era bowl and has been enforced under Lindner and Mück in the ORF, has been completed. There is now a reporting in the ORF where editorial diversity has become possible, where the individual editors stand in competition with each other. Wolf asked that then – I quote again –: “What ORF information absolutely needs is editorial and content plurality. And for this it is necessary, I believe, again independent mission editors with their own editors and reporters and with real, actual decision-makers who are not just so called but who are actually responsible and who do not have to ask for any studio guest and discussion theme (). If you read the analyses and criticisms today, you can say: There is hardly anyone who would say that this house is so guided that there is a person who can decide centrally what will be sent and what will not be sent. And since Mr. Kopf said yesterday in the APA that this terrible rainbow coalition ended the era of Lindner and Mück in 2006 and that this was actually the beginning of the problem, I must say clearly: No, that was not the beginning of the problem – that was part of a solution! [[Abg. Head: The Strobl was a part of the solution! I congratulate you!]] The problem is, it was just a part of the solution. The editorial diversity has come back, and I am glad that your form of politics, where it has been tried, has been eliminated through a central person who has stood in an extreme close relationship with the ÖVP to shape the complete internal policy editorial system. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It was a massive problem how this situation could be solved, I'll give you the right. At the time, the Foundation Council was politically composed. There were alliances that were anything but right for me. There have obviously also been decisions on further questions at the time; the colleague Westenthaler has already deposited several times with me today, which was with my colleague Strobl. Yes, Pius Strobl was part of the Foundation Council at the time, was involved in the formation of this coalition, was nominated by the Greens in the Foundation Council. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: was a green man!]] By the way, there have been many rumors that at the time – especially the BZÖ – you agreed, because the bowl did not want you as a vice chancellor. – Read everything in Austrian media history. There were then also deals made, and I think one must also have the courage to say here that this form of personnel decisions linked to the Director should no longer exist in the future. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. And what about Pius Strobl?]] There should therefore no longer be the possibility of someone switching directly from the Foundation Council to the company. This possibility should be suppressed by law. And here, too, a clear word – listen, I'm just talking to Pius Strobl, if you didn't know that! [[Abg. Grosz: You forgot the story with the Pius Strobl!]] The structure that anyone can switch from the Foundation Council to the company is wrong, was wrong and should no longer be possible after our request. You can hardly hear more clarification at this point. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] So, then, we come to this situation, which the 23.12. has brought, and to the current proceedings before I come to the second problem that Wolf named at that time. What were these transactions? I quote from press releases so that you can summarize this relatively briefly: A close employee of a government party is expected to move to a leadership role in the ORF. The opposition calls on the government party to consider the ORF as a self-service shop to want to bring the public-laws to their attention. The change to Küniglberg has been colporting in the industry for some time. The affected person himself has repeatedly demented a change and has not been reachable in the past few days. The position is advertised in the “Wiener Zeitung”. No detailed information is provided on the application requirements. This item is in the third highest level of ORF with the 16 category of use. The Klubobmann and media speaker of the Government Party concerned rejects the allegations: Staff decisions are only a matter of ORF management – according to their criteria. There is no political recommendation from us. So far as the short summary of the current debate about the planned appointment of the former head of the SPÖ-Friendskreis in the ORF-Stiftungsrat is concerned as head of Alexander Wrabetz's office. This story has a small hook – and it does not mean that it would not be original quotations – it's loud original quotations – but it's the date and it's the person acting. The date of the story was February 2004, it took place at the end of the month. The affected person was Gerald Grünberger, then a close employee of ÖVP's secretary-general Franz Morak. The government party's clubman and media spokesman was Wilhelm Molterer, and the criticizing opposition politician was Alexander van der Bellen. If you want to read this, in particular the original quotation of Molterer on the question of the occupation and non-influence by the government party ÖVP, please the APA of 27. Read February 2004. It's remarkable, isn't it? If you change the names, the same situation. – By the way, history had a positive outcome back then. According to the public criticism, Grünberger has not changed to the ORF. And maybe this is where the circle closes: Anyone who has heard the online reports of the last hours has noticed that there are several rumors about the fact that even the switch of Nikolaus Peliga to the ORF will not take place in this form. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Ah so?]] – We’ll see that, but I’ll read “Press” online, among other things, there are several rumors about it. If that is the case, then it is primarily a merit of the editors, of the incitement against this political influence and, perhaps, of a political debate. Now we are coming to the structural question. That is the other point that Wolf referred to at the time. At that time, Wolf again quoted a prominent ÖVP politician, the former ÖVP Klubobmann Heinrich Neisser. Neisser said: “Neither in the history of the Second Republic has the media-political claim for power been articulated as under the ‘Wend Government’. () The ORF is considered to be possession, politicians feel like houselords.” – He was right with that too. And that is why I come to the structural question of this company. In the company, 35 persons make the central personnel decisions, namely the Foundation Council of the Company, which consists of six members directly delegates and nominated by the parliamentary parties, from nine members appointed by the Federal Government, from nine members appointed by the countries: from the heads of state of the strongest party in each country, and from six members appointed by an audience council of which one said at the time – model Khol – who would be freely elected, there would be independence from outside. And what finally happened: a mobilization between the Party Secretariats of SPÖ and ÖVP, where the first two times the SPÖ won, the last time the ÖVP won, and where especially the post was delighted, because the voting forms were faxed to thousands from the party secretariats. That was the form of so-called independence by the public council. This company has been deeply influenced by decision-making by party-political occupations. It is still that, and it is a debt especially of the long-standing parties ÖVP and SPÖ in the government, and it is high time to say: Party policy out of the ORF – real independence in! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] In itself, the Director-General would have a relatively free hand after his/her election. Additional choice is made: First of all, the Director-General is elected, who then has the sole right to propose the appointment of directors, national directors and national directors. It is only in practice that things are different. In practice, it is clear that the countries make their consent to the election of the Director-General dependent on a question: Will our candidate, whom we have named, be taken into account in the staff package of the Director-General for the occupation of the national directors or not? That was the case with this election, that was the case in the last elections. As long as we have this influence of the countries inside, this will also be so for all other elections. Any relevant decision in the Foundation Council is linked to the formation of majority groups, but if I listen to what opinion there is on the increases in fees that are actually a matter of the Foundation Council – review by the Kommunestria and the Media Authority – but de facto political decisions are made: yes or no?, then it is already shown that it is not far from the company's independence. If you look at the staff decisions of the last two to three months, away from the appointment of the board of directors, you can see that there was not only the Pelinka case to name it here. If this were not already so far that the decision towards abandonment or non-order is apparently taken, the Director-General could only be strongly advised to withdraw from this appointment, for a very simple reason, apart from the question of qualification: A person who comes with such a puncture, with such a prehistory, who has been in such a way a party political light, who comes directly from the direction of a party-political circle of friends into a function where, as the head of the office, he has direct access to the data of the broadcasts of the house, thus two hours before the “cib” is informed, which comes from the content, cannot exercise this function – so well he cannot be from the qualification at all. Moreover, as the head of the office, he does not have access rights, as you know, and in this situation it would be irresponsible to burden the company with such a decision for months and years. But let's take a look at the other staff decisions. Good debate between Westenthaler and Kopf – let's look at Tyrol, what happened there. Helmut Krieghofer was appointed State Director of Tyrol. I have heard little cry from the ÖVP series. Not at all. Helmut Krieghofer was the head of the ÖVP Tirol. Helmut Krieghofer was representative of the ÖVP Tirol. Helmut Krieghofer was a member of the Foundation Council. From this function he has been directly appointed State Director of Tyrol. So if you want to combine incompatibilities in a package and describe what can come together, that it is as incompatible as possible, then you only need to look at the case of Krieghofer. Here everything falls together, which is bad and what should be changed from the structure. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We also come to other posts. I say this quite openly, there was criticism from the Central Works Council yesterday at our position where we called for workers' representatives to be no longer entitled to vote in the election of the Director and the National Directors. In this House, I say quite openly, a directorship, namely the Technical Director, has been an inheritance of the Works Council. And those who are talking about political influence here will probably also be talking about the need for such forms of consent buying and that it cannot be accepted if five votes from the Works Council change for it, namely for the approval of the Director-General that someone from the Works Council will subsequently come into a director's office. That is just as negative, and that too should be changed. I also think that this appointment of idolaters as Technical Director is wrong. I have already mentioned Pelinka; his order should be without tender. By the way: That was already the special chuzpe in the history of the origin, that the formal procedure has not been fulfilled here. I hope the Causa Pelinka is done today. Two other decisions, however, were also remarkable. Robert Ziegler, member of the Central Works Council, deputy editor-in-chief in Lower Austria, was appointed Federal Coordinator – also a body that has not yet been established. Robert Ziegler was the one who drew attention to himself in the summer around the attack in Norway when he meant that reporting on a Christian fundamentalist is not quite right, one should not say that one should speak of an extreme right. He has been betrayed for this form of journalistic instruction about the KommAustria and the media authority, it has been regarded as intervention. But he's still inside this staff package. I am very excited about what the ÖVP will say about this. That's probably about the ORF being independent, and you'll say that has nothing to do with you. At Pelinka it was the SPÖ, but the ÖVP has nothing to do with the other posts. And finally Thomas Prantner. Now I look towards FPÖ and BZÖ. Thomas Prantner was previously online director. The ORF Act has provided for the reduction of six to four directors, so that was no longer a place for Mr. Prantner as an online director. The deal – which was quoted in several media – was, in particular, the FPÖ Foundation Council, but also Mr Petzner mentioned several times how important Thomas Prantner for the company is that Prantner becomes at least vice director. Norbert Steger, who was colported, had made his consent to the election of the Director-General dependent. [[Abg. Grosz: Mr Prantner has never had any political role! Mr. Strobl was the leader of the Greens!]] So here we have an entire staff package that makes the party policy influence on the ORF more than clear. That's why we suggest: a complete redesign of the ORF Foundation Council, one – I don't know, you're obviously not quite audible on the lashes. [[Abg. Petzner: The straw is still missing!]] [[Abg. Grosz: The Federal Managing Director of the Greens!]] I have commented on the person Strobl, and I say it again: The structure is changed! Also such a change as from Pius Strobl to the company should no longer take place. [[Abg. Grosz: Apply now as an office manager, or what will happen when it's done?]] And if I tell you three more times, maybe you'll take note of it, could be. But then we also talk about other things, but for that you will not be able to deal with them on a self-critical basis. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The re-constitution of the Foundation Council should be done in such a way that the party political appointment of persons is terminated once and for all. We propose to reject this regulation to the ÖIAG Act, which has very positive elements, and to create a self-renewing body, a body where ten people are appointed by one – and I come here – founding convention. This board of foundations is supposed to renew itself. That is to say, in a two-year rhythm, people leave the Foundation Council, and the Foundation Council itself has the opportunity to increase them to the ten people again. By the way, I consider this to be relatively well-designed in the ÖIAG Act, so it is also quite a praise to the government parties. There was only one hook in this ÖIAG law: the original ten people there named the government. The self-renewal of the government parties cannot be the model for the ORF. That is to say, in such a self-renewal model, where there will be no subsequent designations, one has to consider centrally, of course, how the first board of foundations will be achieved, how it manages to get a board of foundations that is as far away from party politics as possible. This is, of course, so difficult in Austria. Mr Cap, we discussed this very easily at an early stage. We have a situation in which from the football club via the car club, through the rescue organizations, probably about the flower growers and gardeners in that country everything is organized Party-politically, what can be imagined. The black football clubs, the red football clubs, the black driver's clubs, the red driver's clubs, all these positions are politically distributed according to the propor. [[Abg. Wheeler: VCÖ!]] That's right, it's not that easy to put together a social body where you can figure it out. However, our proposal: Let's try that! There are scientific institutions, there are NGOs, there are trade unions. All of this is not quite outside, but a group of 50 to 100 people from it, who, after hearing in open elections and, so to speak, according to transparency criteria, put together the first Stiftungsrat, would be a clear progress for us. It is about the fact that these Boards of the Foundation can no longer be re-appointed. This is a very essential point, because they are not dependent on the party in the case of Weitem. By the way, Mr Cap, perhaps at the moment we should also look at the SPÖ circle. They think they haven't found this with the Pelinka any longer, as long as you can believe the media reports. It is true that these councils of foundations need to be re-ordered by them, but apparently there is already a certain self-understanding that one still has other tasks than that of representing the interests of the parties. I think this model is better than others who have come to my or our minds. We believe that the party's influence can be reduced by this. So a self-proclaimed body without re-position by parties. The second point we propose is to prevent political influence by the national leaders. Ladies and gentlemen, I hope we have your support for the fact that the provisions in the ORF Act must be consulted before the ORF State Director is ordered to remove this completely inappropriate provision from the ORF Act. Thirdly, To prevent personal conflicts of interest, we want that it is excluded that board members can switch directly to the company. There are now incompatibilities for political mandates, no change from political parties to the ORF for four years. These incompatibilities are correct and correct. We believe that this should also apply to the Foundation Council. Persons who have a Board of Foundations mandate should not have an exchange in the ORF over a period of four years, and it should also include the prohibition of business relations, because it is not only a question of direct change but also a question of whether other transactions are in the background that prevent objective administration. In this sense: Party policy out, real independence in! It's high time!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e16246	Mr Faymann spoke on the submission of an opinion. The speaking time should not exceed 20 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e16268	Madam President. Minister, Secretary of State! Honourable Members of the House, Members! I would like to comment on the basic question as to how, according to the Greens' proposal, a structure could be created to influence the party policy as you have tried to implement it, even in your request, withholds or even prevents it. The fact is that public broadcasting has an undisputed important and indispensable function in our country. Also ideas towards privatisation that it would be better to sell off are not among those discussions that I consider to be a target. On the contrary: I believe that this commitment to public broadcasting and its independence should be one for us in this House. We know that where there is a public-law broadcasting, and I would like to bring you the examples of other European countries, from my point of view, nowhere does there exist a model that holds representative democracy in such a way that anyone else, instead of representative democracy, does not make an order without party-political composition or influence. That is to say, to confess to representative democracy, not to all that their representatives do every day, it is quite natural to criticise where criticism is appropriate, but not to dissociate themselves from the principle of the appointment of a public-law body by representative democracy in one way or another, which I do not think is a really serious possibility. You can make a little more or less progress in an order or in an order process. One can strengthen the diversity. You can strengthen control. One can, above all, control, criticize, challenge the persons acting. So you can also, and this is also legitimate, think and discuss a new broadcasting law, a better broadcasting law. But that in the end there is nothing to talk about in a public-law party, there is no longer anything to talk about throughout Europe. This impression should therefore not be aroused. This is also from the point of view that then any interest representatives should take over this, not really thought to end. I would therefore like to take an example that you yourself mention, namely the ÖIAG Act. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Petzner.]] – No, I am in favour of a commitment to the fact that representative democracy has to decide on how public-law broadcasting is designed, by the fact that the law is passed by you as a parliamentarian, and you decide which, although representatives of interests, as your proposal says, will put it together. Then it is the Green Economy, the SPÖ Economics Federation and the ÖVP Economics Federation. What should be more independent of the parties? So I come to your proposals. I would like to say something about your proposals. This starts with the idea of the ÖIAG law. They bring for the self-renewed Stiftungsrat as an example the ÖIAG that has such a thing. I can only read two quotations to you at ÖIAG, one of the highly valued members of the National Council of the 21st century. June 2001: “It’s just ridiculous to talk about a depoliticization in the ÖIAG,” he says, “neither has politics ever so ruled in public enterprises as it is now.” So the model of a self-renewal does not seem to be the final conclusion of wisdom. [[Abg. May. Kogler: This has just been done by Mr Brosz!]] We come to the question of how Parliament will choose a composition that is so independent at the start that it will remain independent forever in its renewal. You have not yet implemented this proposal to control it. But I can also refer to the process of a self-renewaling body, as it was created at the ÖIAG, by Mrs Gabi Moser of 31 December. Citing December 2011, which there speaks of lack of transparency, lacks clarity about the course and wants it to have it that way. So it seems that this construction, which you propose to us today as a blessed part of an overall construction, is not yet sufficiently thought out. What if you call a country in Europe which has made these public-laws in a better composition than we have designed, more independent, better, more Party-politically independent, more honest! I can only tell you: UK, BBC – Supervisory Board on the recommendation of the Minister responsible for Culture, Media and Sport. Television Council in Germany, ZDF, 77 members. I admit, I too have thought about how to reduce the body without anyone, around which it is reduced, yelling up and considering this to be an action to disable this nomination. I remember that one of the main accusations was when the opposition was reduced, perhaps because the opposition parties were meant to be unable to order any more. Similarly, the discussion in Germany is likely to take place, because a TV Council with 77 members, where representative groups exist alongside Prime Minister or the Federal Government, cannot be described as being independent of any party political influence either. The same applies to Bavarian broadcasting, with 47 a little smaller, or Denmark, for example. There the Minister of Culture orders to give an example. In addition, Belgium: There Parliament, also in the second part of Belgium, determines the Flemish government. Switzerland: Delegates meeting with 41 members, four presidents of the regional companies, delegates and the Federal Council. So I – and I have tried very hard to compare the examples – do not have a model where someone in Europe would have made such a proposal, if one wanted to have public-law broadcasting, and to do so, I am familiar with it. I also recognise that it is financed in such a way that it can work properly and derive a certain degree of independence from it, and that the editors working there also know, on the basis of a secure financing model, that there is no indirect influence or even hunger on the way to financing. I therefore consider myself to be a well-financed, naturally sparingly managed public-law broadcasting, and I do not know an example in Europe, which is to suggest the piece of art here with the urgent request, that on the one hand representative democracy bears the responsibility, in its Parliament has the decisions on the laws, but on the other hand only disables any approach of party-political influence by the nature of the structure. I am therefore in favour of this discussion, but not from the point of view that someone would have found the stone of the wise, but we should carry out the conflicts as they are. One can and should also ensure that, when editors express an opinion, a concern is expressed, that one is taken seriously to verify how decisions are made, that one takes a very close look at those who act, how they make their decisions, that, if one has a more efficient, better structure, one also discusses this structure. However, I would like to end by expressing the second part of the opinion, for example in the “profile” interview by Armin Wolf, who plays an important role in this discussion and whose criticism of this order and other transactions is known to you all. “There is a much greater degree of freedom in the editorial staff than I have” – Armin Wolf – “has ever experienced it in the ORF.” “There is – and this must not be forgotten in the current debate – a fundamental difference at the time before 2006: There is a much greater degree of journalistic freedom in the editorial staff." ‘Of course, the ORF is more free than before 2006’. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] That is to say, it is important to take seriously if there are concerns and concerns about such an important asset as independence, to address the arguments of those they argue about which structural improvements can be expected in an ORF law. But please – and this is my request to the applicants – not to do as if one had thought of something that includes full party political influence in the structure, and the Greens an idea where there is no such thing even seem to be. This is not honest enough for a discussion, but deserves all honesty.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e16318	We are now going into the debate. I would draw attention to the fact that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, no speaker may speak for more than 10 minutes. Each club has a total speaking time of 25 minutes. First of all, Mr Magistrate. Kogler. Voluntary speaking time limit: 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e16348	Madam President. Gentlemen on the government bank! Yes, it is about honesty and credibility, Mr. Federal Chancellor, and in this sense, perhaps Niko Pelinka is also to be thanked for it, should it meet him alone that he had the idea to apply for it, and that he had no one else to do with it. Other than: Split the thanks among yourself here. But it is already an opportunity for the ORF to regain or gain credibility, so that it becomes more independent and that, in the end, a blow of liberation succeeds, at least as far as the image of the ORF is concerned. Unfortunately, it is not just the image, but unfortunately in many areas it is true that the ORF has to free itself from the hostage of party political influence, especially as regards the party-political personnel packages. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Comeback by Strobl or others! Langthaler could start with the ORF!]] It is not true that it would have been just about Mr Pelinka. As far as this liberation from hostages is concerned, one can really look back into time. And, Mr Bundeskanzler, I am already meeting you in one point, but Mr Brosz has done all that that was much worse than the immediate, recognizable impact on reporting before 2006. This is not going to be disputed by us, Armin Wolf has been quoted. The point is quite another one: that we are now fighting to further develop the independence of the ORF, and that we finally get away from these personal policy packages that exist. It is true that four board members have been sent directly under one. That is the problem at this point. Please nice, also addressed to the ÖVP, the matter with the appointment of the national director of Tyrol is anything but beautiful, clean or somehow contributing to independence. If you look at how St. Pölten influences the ORF, you have to say that this has nothing to do with an independence of this important public-law medium. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] So there it is that we want to save ourselves more comparisons, because we want to do it a little bit peacefully, but that is anything but a model. So the ÖVP is well cared for. I am now coming to speak shortly before 2006. At that time, of course, it was much more dramatic. Director-General Mück took over himself, he didn't take one, right, he didn't need one at all. He has taken over himself to be the central censorship, to occupy the central censorship with himself and to exercise it accordingly. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Mück was never Director General!]] At that time it was on the agenda. I remember very well, partly also what the report here from the house has affected: Whenever it was about Eurofighter, Devils have come out, “successful” again and again, under quotation marks. Minister Platter has already been sitting in the studio, has been allowed to comment on Court of Auditors reports which are not even available to Members. Just because he knew that something was coming the next day, he once went prophylactically into the offensive – regardless of whether the helpless tribe of the Federal Minister Platter could not better describe the malaise now, but the forerunnerous obedience at Küniglberg was him and you certainly. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] So these states are known to us, they may not be so bad anymore, but who knows what will happen again. It is already about upholding or regaining this independence, including the credibility of the company. That is why – I mean, it is also the right initiative at this point and at that time – the editors in the ORF are entitled to acknowledge and respect that they are doing so and so because they are starting to try to restore the credibility of the company. That's very important. Finally, as such, the company will become more operational, and in the end it will also be considered – and here we agree, Federal Chancellor – that the image of a public-law radio should not and should not be damaged further if we want to defend it. Now I come back to the proposal we are presenting here. Of course, it was clear – we heard it from the calls – what will happen there. Everyone can make any accusations, more or less substantiated or credible, but in Austria it is already true, Federal Chancellor, that we need to take more care of the occupation of posts in the public-law medium, in this case the ORF, because it is not easily imaginable in other countries, even with all the influence of the representative institutions, representative democracy there, that a person directly associated with the strongest government party in this way is put in this position. Mr Berlusconi himself, when he took the RAI in the grip, had to take longer detours than you do – you do it directly! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] In this respect, it is worth noting, and therefore it is not only worth the attempt, but it is a plausible, a credible undertaking, the appointment of the board of foundations itself, which should then occupy the central other organs and posts in the ORF, to construct differently, to put on the feet differently. And if you already used the OIAG example – we almost expected it anyway – and quoted ourselves: The criticism of the ÖIAG, which was a black and blue construction at the time, was related to the delivery of the Supervisory Board, and by the way, only to the fact that it is the government alone which the Supervisory Boards have ordered from the outset. And that's why it came to say – no! –: What should come out of self-renewal if only black and blue representatives sit inside first? But now the proposal is very different. We are supposed to find institutions here together – we did not say that we already have the list done, that refers to the model – we should agree here together – of course – in representative democracy, and that will be done here. The National Council will find a consensus on which institutions will be selected, which, in turn, will form, if you wish, a founding convention with up to 100 participants. The Foundation Councils will be elected from it, which will then be elected every eight years in a revolving procedure. For longer, a board of foundations there cannot be and will not be re-elected. This contributes enormously to independence. One of the biggest achievements of the Austrian Constitution is that the President of the Court of Auditors can only be elected for a period of time. This has a very, very useful and helpful effect on independence where this is re-enacted. [[Congratulation with the Greens]] I think this is a very intelligent approach, presented here by Mr Brosz. Of course, this approach would have deserved more appreciation from you, Mr Bundeskanzler, than simply to fall into a few counter-reflexes. And, of course, the real influence of representative democracy, which you claim here, is exercised through the legislator by proposing, developing and deciding exactly that way. You've been called to do this, but you've refused that so far. You should take a different attitude here in the interest of public broadcasting.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e16447	Mr Klubobmann's next speech is Dr. Cap. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e16468	Madam President. High house! I believe that the most important point – the Federal Chancellor referred to him earlier – is the question of the social situation of the workers. Therefore, before we talk about the other points you have raised today, we should talk about them. In recent years, there has been a very, very problematic change in the working conditions of workers, journalists and journalists in the ORF – hard at the limit of the potential, under the highest stress, and hard at the border to keep this quality level, perhaps even to increase. Despite this fact, new transmission formats have come, despite this fact, the ratios of the ORF in Europe and, above all, in comparison with the public-laws are more than tangible – at the top of the radio at all and in television always among the first three. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: But please!]] – Yes, that depends on digitalization, on the growing competition, which is related to the satellites. But this competition takes up the ORF, and he stands up for this competition. And now the question is whether we are interested in the fact that public-law broadcasting, the business card of Austria, also where the cultural identity takes place, where the order is there after an objective, fair reporting, plus the many programmes, employment, own productions, the Austrian film industry – by the way where the ORF was involved – is to be further developed, highly successful, up to an Oscar award, equipped with many awards – or not. That is the crucial question. And since, I think, we are obliged to support the working conditions of the ORF and the journalists in such a way that they can meet these requirements in the future – indirectly or directly. This is once the central question, and we should also talk about it – instead of always talking to each other in our political speech, who has just hooked up with whom. It's about us looking at: How are the people working there on whose back many of these discussions are taking place? [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: He cares about the income of Mr Pelinka!]] I don't think it's all right how this happened in part. If you are independent, you should also see that the material, financing conditions of the ORF are also guaranteed for the future, and not say that every three to four years there may be a replacement, a refund for the exemption of fees. Then one should do what was actually stated in 1999, namely that the refund for the exemption of fees for the ORF is simply decided as a claim year after year at an amount to be discussed by us – that is independence, and not every three to four years ask: Do we find it now or not? Then you have to continue this path. Refunding does not mean distributing gifts, but means securing the working conditions of the employees there. I think that is the really decisive thing, and I think that should be focused on it. And because we addressed the year 2006 and what was so unfair in the discussion: I say it's up to the Director-General who works in his office. Whoever will be head of office there is the case of the Director-General, the Management Board, who is in charge of their offices and who works there. But the same thing with Mr Mück – that was what the wrong situation in the public produced, that was what was not all right! Mr. Mück was the central editor, as the previous speakers rightly said, who was sitting there from 7 a.m. in the morning until midnight, who was the boss of all the information broadcasts there – all centralized in one hand! – until the emergency coalition, Mr. Westenthaler, turned to the back feet and then broke through the whole thing. By the way, this is not the case, which is in the Greens' request, with the basic structural majority of government parties. There was Black and Blue, then Black-Orange, on the government, and still Mück and your Director-General did not have a majority at that time. – And that’s right, I say! And since then, the situation of the working conditions of journalists is different. And the crucial sentence of Armin Wolf’s interview in the “profile” was: The journalists and the editorial staff have never – since then – had such a freedom as today. That's the crucial sentence. And that's why I really don't understand the Greens' urgent needs today, because if I have structures there that allow for this freedom to be given, that's actually positive. Or do we want to discuss what would have happened under Gerd Bacher if a moderator on television had used this kind of reporting and this kind of freedom? – We would not have found it at all in the ORF, where it would have been moved! That's the truth. And that is why, I think, one should leave the church in the village now, because under Alexander Wrabetz the majority in the Foundation Council – after the last election actually the Foundation Council, not the majority, but the Foundation Council, because there were 29 pro-voices for this course, with six abstentions – will allow journalists to continue to have freedom. But now a course is necessary that allows working conditions to get even better, because they are not all right. And it is our obligation that we make a contribution to this. Now I'm gonna tell you something, and that's what I want to close: I think the way in which one has addressed this question in the last few days is not all right. So you don't have to deal with someone who wants to do an activity in the company! There will now be this corporate governance rule with this cooling phase, as with the politicians. I think that's right, that's going to come, and that's gonna get hold of it. But one thing I'm saying, when I'm thinking about what you're saying: This ÖIAG structure is not a success programme, and it has also been introduced as a preliminary stage for immediate privatisations. I share what central works councillor Moser said very wisely: This founding convention – who should be there then? NGOs, Greenpeace? Or who should gather there? There the political reality of Austria will reunite. Well, that's not a proposal! And when you end up thinking about what you're saying, it means privatizing. Privatize! And there is then no public-law mission, independence, fairness, Austrian cultural identity, there are only two criteria: Profit or loss – and nothing else! And then everyone will have to be oriented there: the employees, the journalists, the journalists. That counts there! If one understands public-law broadcasting as an important element of our identity, our Austrian identity, in this huge range of channels, I believe that this must be preserved, defended and supported and expanded so that the material conditions can continue to guarantee that this company can work successfully in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e16549	Mr Klubobmann's head is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e16571	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Dear gentlemen on the government bank! Ladies and gentlemen! With the Federal Chancellor, I am absolutely of an opinion in the confession to the public-law part of our dual broadcasting system in Austria. – I recognise myself to both parts, but I am particularly familiar with this important part because it is extremely important for the functioning of democracy, for the unmistakability of the programme and also for the transport of Austrian identity through this programme for a country. That is why, Mr Bundeskanzler, I fully agree with you: We want to receive this public-law broadcasting in Austria called ORF and also want to give it good development opportunities. I think that's worth every effort from all of us here. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] I can certainly agree with the title of the Greens' request: Party policy out, real independence in! Only: It's a little hypocritical when it comes from the greens. I have had great respect for the editors who have turned to the public in various ways these days, including a very interesting video on YouTube, but I have little respect for your initiative, ladies and gentlemen of the Greens. It was red-green orange that put Mr Wrabetz, one of the most unable managers in this country, at the head of the ORF five years ago. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I can still remember the party spirit that ruled on the Küniglberg at that time. She's gone a tristesse, she's a deep disappointment in the ORF, she's gone to all those who work there. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at BZÖ.]] This is the result that you, dear friends of the Greens, have provided to ORF, among other things: A manager at the top who is only under the curate of a party. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Grosz: But Mrs. Lindner wasn't much better either!]] And you also got a price for it: Mr. Strobl, who was once the leader of the Greens, who was the leader of the Greens in the Burgenland, was seamlessly transferred from the Foundation Council to the company by Mr. Wrabetz – as the head of communication, not as the head of the office, because apparently Mr. Wrabetz always needs someone next to him who tells him every day what he has to do or who directs him to what others think he has to do. Now the Greens have just been replaced by another party, but fact is: You have been corrupted there to a degree that you are not now allowed to raise your finger and point to others. You're not allowed to do that! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But the same Mr Wrabetz is also responsible for halving the capital of the company; he is responsible for questionable personnel decisions in the ORF. Even Mr. Oberhauser, one who really did not allow himself to bend, had to go last but not least because questionable personnel decisions passed him – of course, using this sole manager's power, which exists there – and he was put to the attention of staff he did not consider qualified. This was done only for party political reasons. And finally, he had to avoid the pressure of a majority in the board of foundations. You are equally committed to this, because you have put Mr Wrabetz there. [[Abg. Oils: We are not the majority!]] [[Abg. Rädler: But Willy!]] – But you have provided for the majority. Ladies and gentlemen, the loss of quality and quotas is, of course, at the end of the day this gentleman is responsible for the above. Yes, Mr Cap, we should be concerned about the working conditions, especially in the editorial services of the ORF, because there is actually saving in this company in the wrong place. There's a lot to save there, but elsewhere. And unfortunately it is done exactly where then the quality should be produced, which we all get delivered to the house. There are many, many other places where you could save. Talk to the staff representatives there, talk to the directors there, they can tell you hundreds of examples where you can save seriously, instead of in the editorial staff – you're absolutely right, colleague Cap. It hurts there and is not feasible in the long run. But the solution is not – just like at the Federal budget – to pour into a dim barrel even more water, which ingests only at the bottom of the wrong places, but the solution is: Structural reforms. He has not attacked this Director-General, and he will not do it in the next five years – unfortunately! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But now on the proposal of the Greens: Yes, I am very much in favour of a body reform in this company, but with honest motives. Now we have all shown each other long enough on each other's side; each one has told the other that he was there too. Okay. Then it would be high time to end what we accuse each other – whether it is right or not. I also believe that there is a need for a body representing the people, the various stakeholders. In my opinion, however, this can only be done by an owner's meeting, a broadcasting council, as it exists, for example, in Germany. There I can send the social partners, the parties, whoever, their representatives. And then there needs to be a process of how we come to a Supervisory Board, a smaller one, with ten, I say now, capital representatives – would be said to be in a capital company – and five works councils, as is usual in stock companies, also with the same voting rights as in a stock company. This means, of course, that the choice of management means a double majority requirement and the same. We can talk about it. But if we – I am again with the Federal Chancellor – put together these bodies, for example the Committee of Owners' Assembly of Broadcasting Councils: Who, if not politics – it can also be a larger circle from me instead of the government or the main committee or whoever does such a thing – represents the Austrians? I believe that we would also be entitled to put together, for example, such an owner's assembly. And then, according to strict criteria, which should be in the law, especially qualitative criteria, a good Supervisory Board, a qualified Supervisory Board, and in turn, a good, qualified management, which in my opinion should never and never be made up of a managing director in a company of this size. We should urgently talk about these types of reforms, because I am very much in favour, in an open debate, all five parties together. But what we should not do today, and we cannot do from the EIA either, is to agree with this proposal, which I believe is unforgivable – I say again: it is also hypocritical if it comes from you and is not entirely driven by the motives I would like to have. [[Abg. Kogler: Such a nonsense!]] [[Abg. Grosz: Rules of Procedure, Madam President!]] But I would like to have a serious debate, and until we come to another ORF law, I would simply like to have a decent deal with ORF from all politicians in Austria. - That would be a good thing.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e16717	Mr Klubobmann, for the accusation “hypocritical” I give you a call for order. The next item is the speech by Mr Vilimsky. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e16749	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Mr President, ladies and gentlemen! Mr State Secretary! He is quite right, Mr Klubobmann's head, that the Greens should be the last to complain of party political influence. As long as Your Lord Strobl was the right hand, the bearing pillar in the era of Wrabetz, there were no complaints from you. At the time, however, the Greens were also represented in the “time in Figure 2” as if they were a 65 percent party, and with that they were quite satisfied. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But now, because the Social Democrats – illegitimately; I do not like it either, I reject it – increase their influence at the influence of the Greens, their complaints and crocodile tears come at once. A little more honesty would be appropriate in this media debate. In the direction of SPÖ, one must say, on the occasion of the recent case of Pelinka: You are right, Mr Klubobmann, in principle everyone can choose who is in the staff, but one thing has to be said: There was a tender procedure in progress. It is not a private company, where you can choose someone who is just standing in front of you – nevertheless, before the end of the tendering period, the Director-General has appointed his head of the office. Now you could say, very unclean. But it's only really dirty because the office manager, who is now to be appointed and appointed, – what other opinions there are, you are discussing with me here, and I think it's not bad if we have the debate in this way – before the head of the group of friends was at the SPÖ Foundation Councils and for the organization of the Wrabetz election to be more or less grateful. [[Inter-calls at the BZÖ]] Armin Wolf is right about the fact that Mrs. Laura Rudas could in principle have been sitting there. But this is not the first case of sin that happened in connection with the name Rudas. I do not want to approach anyone now, nor do I know if there are any relationship relations, but Andreas Rudas, in the mid-1990s, as I believe, has also been directly employed by the SPÖ Central Secretariat as ORF General Secretary. When that was over, he went back to the party's lap. So there has already been a procedure that would also be a case of sin in the Genesis of the SPÖ mind. It's right: This is where party-political influence takes place to an extent that is absolutely not in order. That is why a reform is urgently needed. But before I come to talk about it, I would like to comment on the public-law nature of the ORF, because I believe that this is important for today's debate. If we talk about a public-law company with a budget of around € 1 billion a year, then you have to understand this public-law character and quality also somewhere else. And nothing is better, nothing is more objective, nothing is more honest than the television programme itself. Let's take a look at the television programme, which is now in progress in Austrian broadcasting with its public quality character! Currently: “How I Met Your Mother”, continues with a series “How I Met Your Mother”. I can't tell you if this is a repetition or a follow-up. It then continues with “Malcolm in the middle”, then there are five minutes of public-law information, namely “ZIB Flash”. After all! Immediately after that, "Malcolm continues in the middle of it", after which the "Simpsons". After the "Simpsons", another episode of the "Simpsons" comes. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Nothing against the “Simpsons”!]] – I didn’t say it was bad. We're just talking about pay-financed television. After the second repetition of the “Simpsons” we continue with “How I Met Your Mother”, then five minutes public-law with “ZIB Flash”, then we continue with “How I Met Your Mother” and “Anna and Love”. – So far, so good, and so much about the public-law character of this company that we have to discuss widely today. For example, compare the ORF with the ARD, the ZDF, with Bayern 3, and BBC, then you'll find that the information share of the ORF is half as high as that of these public-law bodies, but the entertainment share is twice as high. I say: I don't need a public-law television financed by fees, which also needs to be funded because it doesn't come out with the budget to offer these series to play these American Soap operas up and down. This is not worth receiving with the model of fee financing. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I would like to say in this debate that it is good that it is right to introduce a “cooling phase” for Foundation Councils, which makes it impossible to move from a decision-making function through the Director-Generals-General and other functions directly to operational business activities. - That's one. On the other hand, on the other hand, as I have mentioned to the Chancellor, it cannot be the case that representative democracy cannot be shared in a public-law undertaking. Who else, ladies and gentlemen, apart from us is entitled to represent the interests of our electorate segments? Of course, as long as we have the model of royalty, as long as we have a model of a public-law company that requires policy to do so, I would even say to the interests of its voters. If you try to intervene directly in reporting, it will be inappropriate. You shouldn't do that, but you're supposed to watch that a soup opera isn't being played up and down after the other. One should ensure that more quality, more own productions, more red-and-white-red-parts appear in the ORF's broadcast bar. One should also be able to represent complaints accordingly, and yes, it should also be taken into account the interests of that constituency and of the constituency which has sent us here to the High House, where we are also allowed to nominate Councils of the Foundation. Democracy is a good and not a bad thing. Indeed, Mr Brosz, if you want to make the ÖIAG law a model model for the future ORF Foundation Council. Faith Do you really think that the ÖIAG Supervisory Board is a little less politicalized than the ORF? - Please don't! That would be a sham objectivation you don't need. There is a second way, namely: You release the ORF into independence. Released into independence means discharged into the private sector. But then the fees end, then ends with any subsidies in any emergency situations in which we need to look for a majority to get the ORF or to show possibilities if the fees can no longer be applied. My model goes in the direction of abolishing this antique fee model. This is no longer viable in 2012. Each of us has 100, 200, 300 or perhaps more transmitters at home, many people no longer look ORF in view of the diversity of alternative possibilities. Why should these people necessarily have to pay for the ORF, especially since the fees still have a corresponding securitised equivalent? As I have said, my proposal would be to abolish the model of the ORF fees and establish a general media promotion, fair, modern and comprehensible. Under this roof, media promotion could then be put all the media of Austria, the printing area, the TV area, the radio, but also the internet and online area, which is increasingly gaining in funding. Under such a roof, a public-law radio without charge would also have a future if it considered its public-law character if the decision-makers acknowledged that it valued quality in the programme that its reporting has a high red-and-white-red share that it is a broadcasting agency that is happy to have in the country every Austrian. Then the eligibility is given, but not if one acts according to the model of compulsory fees, a politicization is given, which takes on undue proportions and, in the last episode, also causes massive damage to the company and, above all, to the programme. I think the ORF in its present form must be heavily reformed in terms of head and limbs. We need - Mr Brosz, you are right - urgent regulations, a four-year cooling phase in analogy with the policy-making and people regulations in the political environment. In this regard, you have our full support, but not when it comes to holding elected representatives and representative democracy out of the decision-making bodies. I would like to express the appeal for moderation towards SPÖ – in the unheated atmosphere of the afternoon. There has been the advertising affair that has been busy us for a long time and is still in the U Committee, there is now the Causa Peliga, from which one does not know how it is going out. The current rumors say that Mr Pelinka will not take up the job – no matter what. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign]] My Appeal She's heading toward moderation. With a little more moderation, self-control, do something good to the country and do something good to the ORF and the local media. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e16830	Next, Mr Petzner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e16851	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! I can begin with a quote from the German Chancellor's speech today. If he says that the parties should continue to have an influence on the ORF in the future and to participate in the ORF, because this is the case throughout Europe, we say quite openly that this is not our idea for the future of public-law broadcasting in Austria. Just because it was always that way, it doesn't mean that it always has to stay the way it is at present. This is also the basic question that we must ask ourselves, ladies and gentlemen. I am not concerned about the person Niko Pelinka, but it is about an entire system that has been in place in Austria for decades, and this system is in question. I also have to say that I consider the discussion that has been going on since Christmas to be problematic in the following respect: One can practice criticism in the matter, indeed also harsh criticism, for example, one can criticise that no call for tender has taken place or has only been made in retrospect, one can criticize the time, the salary classification, even the classification as editor, but it is not right to make the clothes of a human being, the hairstyle of a human being, the age of a human being, the relationship of a human being to the political subject and the subject of an unworthy political debate. [[He was also in favour of BZÖ and SPÖ representatives.]] This really bothered me, and I would like to have said that clearly in this form – and this applies not only to Niko Pelita, but generally. This continuing “humanisation of political discussion”, as I am referring to, which is increasingly concerned, is very problematic. In the matter, you can also discuss it hard and also put forward your arguments on what I am doing with this. The fact is that this system, which is criticised here – and it is about this system – has been in this form since the ORF existed. There are countless examples. There have always been initiatives to call the ORF popular desire of the platform “SOS ORF” for example at this point. There have been editorial uprisings to break this system in the ORF that has existed for decades. We just need to give some of them an example of what happened in the past. In the era Mück/Lindner a leading ORF editor with the chair in his hand drove into the Federal Chancellery so that the German Chancellor Schüssel could sample whether the ORF chair was suitable for the TV discussion. Second example: nineties, Euroteam affair, the famous five-second snow affair. At that time, a SPÖ-critical passage from a "ZIB" contribution to intervention should have been cut out smoothly. Third example: the famous “Moltophon” – a direct position line from the ÖVP headquarters of the then ÖVP Klubobmanns Molterer up to the Directorate-General to Mück and Lindner. That is, these states are not new, but these states have systems in the ORF, and these states and this system must be combated. That is what we stand for, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] As far as the current debate is concerned, we must also say that there is not only Mr Pelinka. Let's think of Mr Strobl. Mr Strobl is the green Pelinka, ladies and gentlemen, who was appointed as the Foundation Council directly as the communication speaker of the House and then had to resign in the course of a hearing party. You can't forget that either! There is also a female woman Pelinka in the greens. The green public councillor Birgit Kohlmaier-Schacht is directly from the public council on green intervention to the marketing department of the ORF and has occupied a bold position there. If you're talking about cleanliness, you'll also make sure that these people clear their armchairs in the ORF that you've intervened in, ladies and gentlemen of the Greens! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Robert Ziegler, ÖVP-near works council, Stiftungsrat – directly changed to the newly created function “Bundesland coordinator”. No one knows what to do, but the ÖVP has given him a post. Current example – very problematic; Mr Westenthaler pointed out that it was completely incompatible –: How can you allow ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ, that Dietmar Hoscher, the Board of Directors of Casinos Austria AG, should now perform a supervisory board function as the board of trustees for FPÖ in ORF, while at the same time the ORF holds a 6-percent share with annual profits of € 109 million at the lotteries and therefore at Casinos Austria AG, where Mr Hoscher is the Board of Directors? Even the Court of Auditors criticises this and says that it is incompatible that it is not possible. The ORF should make this contribution. A board of directors of a company in which the ORF is involved is now to become the board of directors of the company that is involved in the company of Mr. Hoscher. - That's a totally mischievous situation. That's incompatible. I really ask you to reconsider this decision, because it will also not be legally sustainable and is at all in a legal contradiction to the current laws we have in Austria, ladies and gentlemen! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] These many examples and, last but not least, the fact that only in 2011 the share of broadcast time for the government parties in the messages is 72 per cent, so much does not even have Mr Orbán in Hungary, show that we need urgent action and that this decades-long system, which is strongly attacking, needs to be dissolved. There are several proposals to this end, and there have already been a lot of different approaches – in reality nothing has worked. That is why we say: It is only a radical, comprehensive step that actually creates this party-political independence. This is the first time that we have been able to find a solution to this problem. We have presented a concrete model. We say: If we put the ORF in private hands, we ensure a state formation, we transform the ORF from a foundation of public law into a stock company in which the state and thus politics have a 25 percent block minority! No longer, because only this one model actually guarantees the full political independence and objectivity of the ORF in Austria, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] In this context, we also call for the abolition of unwarranted compulsory fees, which we believe are no longer timely in the context of the development of today's media landscape. Let us set up a popular share and make sure that the ORF is actually one of those who also look at ORF, namely the Austrians and not the political parties! That is the approach we represent. By the way, this model has also been proposed today by a former general intern of the ORF, namely by Gerhard Weis. Weis has also suggested to transform the ORF from a public law foundation into a stock company and to follow a similar model as we have proposed. I believe that this would be the right step and that would also be the right consequence from a system that I believe has survived for 40 or over 50 years. As regards the ORF – the market share now far below 35 percent – the declining deployment rates also show that the spectators, the listeners and listeners turn away, because they no longer trust the ORF and its reporting. This confidence, ladies and gentlemen, must be restored through this measure that we have proposed and thus ensure the real independence of public broadcasting in Austria. For this purpose, the employees of the ORF can also make their contribution. Finally, I would like to mention this because Mr Cap has already tried to get involved with the staff and the editors. They have already lulled their honey around their mouths again, so that they are friendly again and are not evil at you because you wanted to push in the Pellinka. That's dishonest, that's hypocritical, you don't do that. The employees also have a responsibility for the ORF, for their home. Therefore, it is right to practice criticism, therefore, it is right to defend oneself, but this criticism and this burden must be done in such a way that one does not harm one's own company, the reputation of the house in which one is employed. Some editors, who have been particularly active in this field, have an 18-year contract – ORF-insider know what grade of salary it is – that is, some should come a little at their own door. There is also a need to take a little measure and see the matter – and not just individuals like Niko Pelita or others. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler]] Criticism is good, criticism is important, but it must also be ordered and civilized and done correctly. This is in the interests of our democracy and also of the media in Austria, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e16991	Mr Petzner, the same applies to you, of course: For the accusation “hypocritical” you will receive a call for order. [[Abg. Grosz: I haven't talked yet!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You should take up a few more calls for orders for Mr Grosz!]] Mr Zinggl spoke next. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e17046	Madam President. Values Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Perhaps the complete independence of public broadcasting from political power is indeed a myth, an illusion, and yet I believe that we must gradually approach this goal. That's exactly the same thing as with justice: We cannot imagine what total justice would mean, regardless of whether we want it at all, and yet humanity has the goal of developing ever more just laws. When we look at the laws of today and see them with those of the 19th century. By the end of the century, we will confirm that. And if you do that of the 19th. When compared with those of the Middle Ages, we see it even more clearly. That is, it pays off to strive for something asymptotic that you may not want in your final purpose. And that's exactly how it is with the independence of a public station. It is our goal, after all, to move towards independence from politics, even if we never achieve it. But some things have already been done, considering that 50 years ago the radio was completely divided into red and black. In 1963, there was an agreement between then Chancellor Gorbach and Vice Chancellor Pittermann, and as a result all management positions were divided. So there was a black line and a red representative or a red ladder and a black representative. Of course, women were not at all talking about at the time. But in 1964 it was the civil society that said: Stop, that's not how it goes! We want to get rid of broadcasting from this party-political overcrowding. It may be a coincidence, but it was the same year that Bob Dylan released his song "The Times They Are A-Changin'". And with this song he is also turning to politics by saying in the third verse that politics should look around once and let go of the way for urgently needed reforms that shake on the windows and on the walls. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Right!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: He must have sung the ORF!]] - Well, not the ORF. “It’ll sound shake your windows and rattle your walls For the times they are a-changin.” – That’s what it’s about that politics should open the way for something that the population already knows. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Maybe you can vote on this briefly?]] [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Dr. Cap.]] It then took two more years in Austria, from 1964 to 1966, to clear the way for something that the population long wanted. And perhaps I can draw your attention to the following today, Federal Chancellor Faymann. I looked at how Chancellor Gorbach argued at the time. He did this with the same argument – or with a very similar one – as you used it today: A state-owned radio system is likely to be guided by a representative democracy – those were more or less two parties at the time. That's quite clear! – And still, a lot has changed. Two years later, 1966, we know, the way has been cleared by politics and it has come to this law of an independent ORF – at least on paper, because we know that in practice this is still not realized. Perhaps this will never be realized, but gradually, gradually we should approach it, and we are also approaching it. We saw this in 2000 with a somewhat improved legal situation and in 2006 it was much better. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: 2006 then the first green person!]] And now, in turn, civil society demands a new improvement: This time it is the editors of the ORF itself, because they have finally enough the eternal interlocutory speeches and the three-pronged speeches of the parties and also these party chess, when it comes to the occupations of management positions. And their anger is very clearly directed against this poison of the proporze, which still creeps in the ORF, but all the possible contaminating. And I believe that if we have not done massive support from politics up to now, we should at least think of Bob Dylan and set the way for such reforms. And that is exactly the case, ladies and gentlemen, our request is now also to be understood. This has nothing to do with privatisations at all, neither from our side nor from the Council of Editors, which is certainly clear to all. Politics must now simply respond to what everyone here in this country wants anyway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e17142	Now comes Mrs Mag. Steßl-Mühlbacher. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e17163	Madam President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! My dear gentlemen on the government bank! High house! The Greens' request is already very interesting, especially because the ÖIAG is a model, and I do not know whether the Greens have done the work to read through the ÖIAG Act. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Kogler.]] [[Abg. Oils: Of course!]] You probably thought: Yeah, that sounds pretty good! A Supervisory Board will be installed, and we just adjust it to the ORF a little. [[Abg. Ollinger: But then they were ordered by the government!]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: Now it's going to be embarrassing!]] At the second glance, however, there is a very different picture, because the ÖIAG law is a pure privatisation law, and either you pull out immediately with the language and say, yes, we want to privatize the ORF, but we also draw the consequences from it – or not. Because if you privatize the ORF, I can tell you what comes out of it: a pure profit and loss account, and the public education contract will certainly not be fulfilled enough. [[Abg. May. Kogler: But who wants to do that?]] [[Abg. Oils:..., that's beyond!]] In this context, also because Mr Petzner spoke just before, the BZÖ proposal is also very interesting, which states that it is to carry out a partial privatisation with a barrier minority and to impose a popular share. I can only say that “More private, less state” has already gone into the pants several times in the Second Republic, if only we remember the BUWOG-Causa or even the Telekom. [[Abg. Petzner: That's all ÖVP!]] [[Abg. Grosz: This is not happening in the red Styria!]] And especially the Telekom scandal also shows that the ÖIAG is not a illustrious example. [[Abg. Grosz:... the mayor of Feldbach!]] This green application should also not only cut workers' rights, but also delete them. What's that name? “The representatives of the employees shall not have the right to vote in the election of the Director-General and the Director-General and the Director-General.” I can only say that, certainly not with social democracy! A removal of workers' rights does not come into question for us. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] You probably didn't deal with this request with the alternatives and Green Trade Unionists. Read today's press releases, 18th century. January, says Claudia Paiha: “... all attempts to restrict or at all eliminate business co-operation rights are so unacceptable and unacceptable. ” So I think that we should agree a little on an internal basis, too, if we make such a request. I would also like to say that the political scope of the journalists has improved considerably, and this also shows the current situation. Among Mück/Lindner were protest videos uploaded on YouTube, or other... – Yes. [[Abg. Grosz: There's no YouTube yet!]] If there had been no YouTube, there would have been other possibilities, Mr Grosz. [[Abg. Grosz: There was still written at the ORF on shaleboards!]] All of this would have been unimaginable, right up to Wolf's speech. And now, too, Armin Wolf has suggested that the situation has improved considerably, and it depends on that. [[Abg. Grosz:... and also Mr. Seiler! And first, Mr. Kalina, that was a sympathizer!]] In this debate, however, we must not lose sight of the public mandate of the ORF, Mr Grosz. For example, if you look at the ORF law and read § 32, it is said that “the freedom of the journalistic profession of all journalistic staff to take care of all the tasks assigned to them under this federal law” is to be observed. The diversity of interests must also be observed! The offer to the listeners, to the seers and seers, according to § 4 para. 2 to focus on and also to take them into account. It is not enough to reflect established opinions and directions, but also to introduce divergent or emerging developments into the reporting process. And even if you want to talk a lot badly in this debate, you have to say one thing: The ORF does excellent work, not only throughout the country, but also with the ORF Landesstudios. It is important that especially the regions in Austria, the individual federal states, receive up-to-date news. This is important for the regions to present themselves, it is certainly also tourism promoting and it is also important for people in the regions outside of Vienna. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] If you go further and look at the work of the ORF, the ORF has excellent quotas, especially among the listeners, only 5.2 million Austrians hear ORF radios, or the press release of 17th. January 2012, where the ORF has reported six more range records for Monday, shows this. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ing. Westenthal]] [[Abg. Grosz: But the Baldrian consumption has gone down for this! Exchange Baldrian against ORF!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: For when?]] [[Abg. New builder: for skiing!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: But now the Dolly Buster is coming, everything is getting better! Instead of "Dancing Stars" "Porno Stars"! “Dancing Porno Stars”!]] So you can't do anything bad, for example, the ORF has established division channels such as ORF III or ORF Sport Plus. Finally, I would like to say: The ORF has not only developed further, it has also stabilised economically, and this is also the basis for sustainable economic success – and this also without the cost-refunding. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, we can always talk about improvements, but not about a quick shot, which would mean a deterioration of the situation.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e17412	Mr Lopatka has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e17457	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! It is already a bold undertaking on the part of the Greens when they criticise the Wrabetz system here today, because they were at least at the beginning of the era Wrabetz main beneficiaries of this system in terms of personnel decisions. And making yourself here, I can only see that more than escape forward! I'm guessing Mr. Professor. Van der Bellen very, but – perhaps you forgot, Professor – you were the one who was at 5:55 a.m. on this 17. August 2006 in a broadcast: ‘Wrabetz election is a signal... of a party-independent ORF’. [[Oh, call at the ÖVP.]] I think, Professor, you've cheated. – Yes, you nodd, then we have an opinion, because this culpa in eligendo, of course, is also with the Greens through their choice of Wrabetz. [[Abg. Brosz:... mosquito back?]] What do I see the Wrabetz system in? – I want to address three areas: The first area is its personal policy decisions. [[Abg. May. Kogler: That is what we have differentiated!]] These are very self-willed methods that he has demonstrated here, by the green party secretary – in our case the party secretary called at the time, in your case, the Federal Managing Director – who directly changes to a central position and then becomes the head of communication and marketing. Whether you see this as a contribution to independence, I would have liked to know! And on the other hand, as far as this system is concerned, of course, there is a continuation – whether it was Strobl at the time or the now called Pelinka affected – that does not make any difference: Such a system, of course, leads to dependencies, shackles and, in total, to a situation that cannot be good for a company. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: He speaks from experience!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Petzner.]] I am already on the second point of the Wrabetz system: I don't know which world my predecessor lives in when she talks about economic success in the Wrabetz system. Wrabetz took over the ORF with an equity of € 300 million. [[Abg. Heinzl: What about the Federal Coordinator? What about this one?]] – He has nothing to do with the economic success, Mr. Cot. [[Abg. Heinzl: Eh nothing! But nothing at all!]] The economic success of the Wrabetz system is to be looked elsewhere, if it takes over 300 million equity, now has 120 of it, that is, 180 million destroyed, and needs 160 million of us – and this has been done since 2006, ladies and gentlemen! To have a minus of 340 million in six years, and then you're talking about economic success? [[Abg. Heinzl: Stay with the truth, my colleague!]] I can't follow you at the best of will. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Heinzl.]] The third point: The money can't be that the ORF lost so many seers at that time. Because this will be kept silent by you too: It is started at 47 percent – a high share! – now it's below 37 percent. It has lost more than two-digit percentages. And, Klubobmann Cap, one of you is certainly outstanding, that's your gratitude. After 30 years, however, it should find an end sometime. In the end, it was certainly also with a performance – at the time he was still young – by Wrabetz, when he organized your favorite election campaign that you moved into the House at that time, 1983, with more than 100,000 preferred votes. I would like to make a proposal so that you can put an end to this thanks: If you have an influence with the ORF, you suggest a portrait of “Super-Alex” at “€co” then this could also end. Because what has Wrabetz succeeded? – I can summarize it once again: in reality, one flop after another. Programmematic: Do you remember the greatest programme reform of all time he has presented? – Let’s just think of “the middle of the 8th”! This is what this biggest programme reform has looked like. Personal: My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, let's think from Strobl to Pelinka! [[Abg. Brosz: Ziegler,...!]] So he wasn't very successful when he chose his closest employees, and he always said that this should be his privilege. Financial: I can only say to the fee payers: Think about Wrabetz next time you have to pay your bill!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e17603	Mr Dr. Strutz has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e17624	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! High house! The ORF debate is being followed very closely in public. It is mainly followed by the editors of the Austrian radio, and it was very funny how the SPÖ has tried to get Mr. Armin Wolf from the ORF through its “profile” interview, so to speak, as a witness to the fact that the influence of the parties in the ORF has been pushed back and that the editors can now work more freely in the editors. Mr. Bundeskanzler, you have been on Twitter since the latest – now he has gone away a little bit – since he is also represented on Twitter. [[Federal Chancellor Faymann stands slanted behind the government bank]] Armin Wolf, familiar with the new media, has put his opinion on what the SPÖ has given the best in this field on Twitter. I would not like to abstain from this, Federal Chancellor. Armin Wolf 15 minutes ago: 'Live in Parliament: Werner Faymann reads Armin Wolf. Interesting. Unfortunately, only the part he likes, the other he leaves away.” – And that’s exactly the criticism. [[Cheerfulness at FPÖ and BZÖ.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] - Armin Wolf 15 minutes ago. Mr Bundeskanzler, you must not only be represented on Twitter, you must also see what your friends and colleagues are posting there! Armin Wolf 40 minutes ago: ‘classical case of ‘caught from the context’, or Where was the part with ‘ORF being politically blackmailed’?’ [[Oh, call at ÖVP and FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Heinzl: It must have a lot of time!]] Armin Wolf 35 minutes ago: “Well, if SP club boss Cap knows what ‘the crucial sentence’ is in my PROFIL interview. Should be. There will be title editor...” Mrs. Rudas, perhaps you can once tell your editors who are working on the Twitter page of Mr. Federal Chancellor that they also tell him what is there about him. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Zanger and Mr Ing. Westenthaler.]] Armin Wolf, 33 minutes ago on Twitter: “Is it really like verbal hostage taking?” Mr Bundeskanzler, I am only saying this because, in fact, your speech has partly made it clear to you that it is not about the matter, but that it is simply being tried to spread the coat of silence about what has happened, namely, an unprecedented threat, an access, an influence on the ORF. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Tadler.]] There are two, perhaps three people who have it in their hands today and who, as I would like to say, also have the responsibility and the opportunity to give the ORF back the credibility and perhaps thus also a restart, as it has already been discussed today, as it has been demanded by the editors of the ORF. Mr Bundeskanzler, I really ask you: Speak a word of power! You got it in your hand. Have a personal conversation with Mr Pelinka, who is now certainly not in any happy personal situation, and tell him: Look out, Nikolaus, it was a stupid idea from my secretary-general to get you in there. [[Between call of the Abg. Ing. Westenthaler.]] Don't take this job, step back! Then would be a big stone of burden from the ORF, but, as I think, also fallen off the SPÖ, because you are also the party chairman of the Social Democrats, and I do not take it from you that you want your party to have the image that, after one – like Armin Wolf rightly wrote in his contribution to the “profile” – it improves the climate, after facilitating the climate in the ORF brings back those states that allow political, direct political access from the party headquarters to the independent ORF. That is why, Federal Chancellor, this appeal: Speak a word of power! But the Director-General must also be aware of his responsibility. He must exercise his responsibility and act. If not, ask who can have a conversation with Mr Pelinka and also state publicly: No, I'm going to deal with this occupation correctly, as it was planned, in the form of a call for tenders. The fact that these posts were already occupied before was actually an operational accident. [[call to the FPÖ.]] What has become of the promises made by the Director-General, whom he made a year ago during the ORF reform, and where he has also received the agreement of the parties here in plenary for the financial support of Austrian broadcasting? Program reform: The programme has already been addressed today. If the programme reform looks like we are introducing new formats that are praised by the ORF in a success report that “Dancing Stars” is now participating in semi-trailers when transvestites are nominated as the ORF’s hanging-out sign and business card for the Eurovision Song Contest, yes, then you can say that’s not the programme reform, that’s not the programme design they want the Austrian television viewers. If there is talk of savings and the first measure of the re-ordered Director-General is that according to a secret plan, the salaries of the Director-General and the Directors of the ORF are suddenly raised by 10 percent, please do not be in the interest of the fee payers. Before Christmas, the Works Council made this increase clear: 10 percent more for the Director-General. Then it's called, well, it's going to be a little bit saved at the fees. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] The answer was that this must now be shared by each ORF payer and ORF payer as a result of the increase in fees. While the pensioners, Mr. Bundeskanzler, are granted a lean increase in their pensions of 2.6 percent, the directors in the ORF receive 10 percent. [[New call to the ÖVP.]] There is a need for action for you as Federal Chancellor, for you as responsible for the ORF! Thirdly, the independence of the ORF. I am rather skeptical of the fact that the political parties in Parliament will succeed in bringing about a change in the bodies, but we should leave that to those who have also spoken now, who have now spoken out loud and said that they want a new independent orientation, including the control bodies. It is system-immanent that the political parties will not be able to bring about these innovations of the ORF law, but that should be the task of those who can and must live with it. It's supposed to be the ORF editors. It's supposed to be experts in this company. They should articulate how they can imagine an objective, independent composition of the ORF. And our task would be to bring that into a new ORF law in the course of the law.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e17728	Next speaker: Mr Grosz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e17749	Madam President. High house! Do felix Austria! We are a very happy republic. Over the last few weeks, we have been discussing Austrian passports, fierce and emotional. We'll discuss whether Dolly Buster will be Dancing Star or not. We are now discussing Mr Niko Pelinka for two hours now, about a single person at the ORF, and in the meantime we have lost the Triple A. [[Abg. May. Gaßner: Yes you! We're not!]] [[Intervocations with Greens and ÖVP.]] In the meantime, public debt is rising, and we do not know how to maintain Austria's future and how we should finance the benefits for the population at all, for those people who can't do anything for this crisis. [[Abg. Head: We already know!]] In the early days we forced a discussion on Triple A from the BZÖ, and it comes lonely and alone the Minister of Finance to inform us of an hour. Now that it is about the Niko Pelinka, thanks to the Greens, the government bank has already been filled. Even the State Secretary in the Federal Foreign Office, Waldner, is sitting there, who may be writing to report to his sister to the ORF “Report” as it is here in the House. And then we're in nepotism anyway, then we're exactly with the vet economy, which is being condemned once again today, but which, since it's been ORF, is actually system-immanent and relevant. Ladies and gentlemen, if not Alexander VI. Nepotism would have cultivated, then it would be Austrian broadcasting now. I just remember to contribute a little bit to this process of history, to Mr Kurt Bergmann. 1963: Press service of the Austrian People's Party and press spokesperson of Finance Ministers of the ÖVP. 1973: Landesstudio Niederösterreich, Intendant; then return as a MP and as the Federal Managing Director of the ÖVP to return to the ORF with these party functions. – This is only for so-called nepotism, for the vet economy, for party political influence. I remember the Greens – and I have already tried to formulate it in an intermediate call today –: If you have so much butter on your head, don't take your mouth to full! I remember Pius Strobl. Mr. Cap – Kery – a close ally of you Mr. Pius Strobl in his time as a glowing social Democrat and worshiper of Mr. Josef Cap, then with the Greens, then Federal Managing Director of the Greens – party function, high party function after the speaker – then the Council of the Foundation, and then he made the ORF a little bit. By the way, with his consent Wrabetz became Director-General, and he was then allowed to be the powerful press speaker of the ORF. I remember Gerhard Seiler, ORF Director General, as it was then called, Press Officer of Fred Sinowatz and Franz Vranitzky. The two personalities were not really lupen-clean, objective, partyless functionals, but were both SPÖ party chairmen, whose faithful servant was Mr. Seiler. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wenninger.]] And then there is one of the colleagues Mück, who was a waxy black man and who made the ORF for the National Council elections for the ÖVP. One of the members of the Euroteam – Mr. “Eurolim” – Jarolim in the third row, you remember Mr. Kalina’s telephone calls, where he intervened that the SPÖ did not occur in scandal reports about the Euroteam scandal – in current broadcasts at the ORF as SPÖ Federal Party Managing Director, intervened in ongoing broadcasts! [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: something original!]] This goes on to this day, until Mrs. Langthaler from the Greens, who shoots company videos in ORF rooms free of charge, or a certain woman Birgit Kohlmaier-Schacht, who was a green audience councilwoman. And then a job was created for her by Mr. Pius Strobl, who calls herself “Sustainability Representative” of Austrian radio. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Weninger and Mr Oellinger.]] Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say one thing: This discussion today cannot be surpassed by grotesqueness. For decades, the ORF has been held in party-political hostages. And whether one or less comes along and is called Niko Pelinka or not, the herb does not make herb fat either. What irritates me much more – and there is nothing wrong with the government parties – is the reporting of the ORF, determined by MediaWatch, of which 72 percent are a pure PR washing machine for the two government parties. And now, Mr Wrabetz, with the support of Mr Ostermayer and Mr Faymann, says: Yes, let us set the ORF for the 2013 National Council election! – This is just as unpleasant as the last decades, 30, 40 years, but nothing new. Take note that the government parties have repeatedly abused the last decades, and also the Greens, by the way, the ORF Party-politically! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] Therefore, our proposal: It is in the interest of the fee payers who have to pay money for this TV scrap every month, in our interest, in the interest of the seers, that we finally privatize the ORF and abolish the forced fees. The fact that the taxpayers in this country also have to pay a cent for the mailers is particularly perfide, ladies and gentlemen. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber.]] With the support of the Greens, the SPÖ and the Austrian People's Party, all parties up to the BZÖ, there were more than 100 million taxpayers last year, ladies and gentlemen, here – you can laugh as you want, I will also get you the protocol out! [[general hustle and bustle]] [[General cheerfulness and intermediate calls at ÖVP, SPÖ and Greens.]] All the parties to this House, without the BZÖ, have still financed the ORF with more than €100 million in tax money to finance this party-political post office chess. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Calls for Greens and SPÖ.]] More than €100 million you have cleared out to keep the ORF once more as a post chess paradise over water, instead of finally making this ORF economically and thus independent. [[New condolences with BZÖ.]] [[Further calls to Greens and SPÖ.]] And that, ladies and gentlemen, you can read in the minutes. Now there is laughter among the Greens, Mr Brosz, who is sitting in the third row, and who is day out, has no other function in the green club than to intervene for the Greens, when her own clubwoman, I do not know, sets a sunflower new, and does nothing but ensure green reporting in the ORF, with intensive intervention attempts. [[Cheerfulness and intermediate calls with the Greens.]] [[Interlocutory calls from Deputies Weninger and Mag. Gaßner.]] Mr Brosz then turns out here and makes a urgent request today. [[Abg. Oils: (on p. Brosz, what's the point?]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would say something right now, but it has already been thought twice of invoicing today, so I am saving it myself. [[Call the SPÖ: What do you want to say?]] Ladies and gentlemen, I therefore believe that the affair of Pelinka is a more or less commonplace. And I'll tell you one thing: The only chance to finally bring the ORF out of this decades-long discussion – this is not the first ORF debate that is taking place here today, I have only been sitting here for a little more than three years as a member of the High House, and I have already experienced at least three ORF debates on party political influence – is the proposal that today also Josef Bucher and Stefan Petzner have articulated, which the former Director-General Wise supports, at last, privatize this public broadcasting and thus we really lead it to an independence! [[Abg. Oillinger: Do you believe what you're saying?]] [[Intervocations at SPÖ and FPÖ]] The longer it is in the state’s gang, the more the desires to influence the coverage, the more the coverage. [[Abg. May. Kogler: out, because he didn't want to hear that!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wenninger.]] And, ladies and gentlemen, finally: I'm surprised by one thing. Col. Strutz goes out here and quotes Twitter messages and Facebook messages from Armin Wolf – nothing against colleagues Strutz, no worries, no fear – and now I am slowly wondering what an editor with a so-called 18-person content does all day. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinzl.]] So the state directors have a 16-year salary, which is a very high salary level in the ORF. Mr. Wolf, I've been told, gets an 18's content, and then the colleague Strutz goes out with his iPad and loses how he has been reporting Twitter and Facebook for hours. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Ollinger and Mr Brosz.]] That is why I also call on the editors of the ORF to take back the excitement and finally return to their job, because for this they are paid by the fee payers who are forced to do so. To conclude: I really hope that this is the last discussion, because we hope to have the last discussion when we finally release this public-law broadcasting, this ORF, from the hostagery of the parties and lead to a good future for the private sector. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Many private channels in this country show us that extremely good reporting, an information activity that now goes far beyond the level of ORF, that a good offer, including in terms of entertainment, is also possible in the private channels of this country. There are enough private channels that have no compulsory fees and they don't have a post-political circus like the ORF. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e17988	Next, Mrs Mag. Schwentner speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e18010	Madam President. Gentlemen on the government bank! Ladies and gentlemen! I hope you have time now, Mr. Cot, to cool your mind a little bit. They called the debate a grotesque afternoon. Mr Grosz, I think you have contributed very much to this grotesque with your speech. [[Abg. Dr. Strutz: That was a good speech!]] One thing before: What I find very annoying and very significant for the whole debate is that we are making a urgent issue, that we are bringing the parties out of the ORF, and actually nothing else happens all afternoon, including you, Mr. Kopf, than to calculate and hold a debate on who now has more influence. [[Abg. Head: What are you doing with your application?]] – We do not make the impression that we are reckoning with the influence, and nothing else happens all afternoon, but we are trying to actually make a cut with the request, actually to say: [[Abg. Grosz: Sit back, Mrs. Colleague!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Worm]] The ORF must be party independent and the debate must be held! Unfortunately, I have not recognized this in the last two hours. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Head: Say!]] We made a proposal. [[Abg. Head: Unfortunately impossible!]] – If you find the proposal unsuitable, we will hold this discussion seriously! However, it has not been conducted in a serious way, because it has only been settled in the last two hours, and that is why I feel it is uninteresting in this regard. I wanted to address another issue which was not yet a matter in this debate on the urgent matter, namely the situation of women in the ORF, the female employees. [[Ah-rufe at the ÖVP.]] If you look away, you have the feeling that women actually shape the ORF. Whether I watch news, cultural programmes, information broadcasts of any kind, discussion programmes, women moderate, women shape, women talk, women lead the discussions, women are very present. If I look at what is happening behind the scenes and also in relation to this debate before Christmas, then I have to say, women's policy has also been a very serious thing in relation to these post-post-orderings. It was not only that it is problematic in the sense of awarding an invitation to tender, who receives this job, but also in terms of how equal treatment for the ORF should actually be followed and how the post-employment of jobs should take place after the equal treatment bid. [[Abg. Wheeler: don't trust!]] And this was certainly not taken into account in this context, obviously – at least in the pre-announcements. We do not know how it is going to be decided, and I very much hope that this will be in favour of women, because there is at least a great need for follow-up at the levels we are now dealing with. [[Abg. Rädler: Rudas!]] I can briefly call you the numbers of ORF employees. We decided a quota of 45 percent in autumn. In fact, if you take all ORF employees, there is now a female share of 42.5%, for the under-34s, even 50 percent. But if you look at the 18 salary levels, and of which the level 16 has been very hotly discussed lately, especially the lower ten user groups – Mr. colleague, you may be able to listen very briefly, I know that you are not concerned about the subject, but you may be able to listen for a moment! [[Abg. Petzner: But that does not justify the green mailer! Tell me!]] If you look at the lower ten user groups, you notice that 61 percent are women. The higher you go up, the thinner the air for them. And especially in the category we discuss in connection with the posts around the Christmas season, the air is getting very thin, because there are only more than 24 percent women. That is where we need to look and, in that respect, take action. [[President Neugebauer shall take over the chairmanship.]] That's what I'm asking myself: What is the level playing field, which appears every two years? What is there for an equal treatment committee, a gender equality committee? What is an equal treatment officer in the ORF for? What is a working group on gender equality for? What is all this for when it is ignored in the case of post positions? This is a joke for women and for equality in the ORF. I would think that the ORF plays a very special role in this context and bears a special responsibility. As a public-law radio, the ORF should go ahead with a great and right example. This should also be urgently reclaimed in the positions where women are under-represented – in the sense of the ORF law! I would think that we should look at it together and keep our hands on it, that this quota is being respected and that equality measures are being taken in the sense of the plans and in the sense of the projects decided upon, at all levels, in all categories of use and, above all, in leadership positions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e18165	Next speaker: Mr Wenninger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e18187	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! When discussing the ORF, when discussing media policy, you have to do it very carefully. Media policy means media, politics, and both are very sensitive, important pillars of our democratic approach. They are related, can be assessed separately, but it is nevertheless important – and I am grateful for that – that the debate has changed, which is more constructive, than was expected due to the pre-announcement. Nevertheless, a few comments to my previous speakers. – Mr Vilimsky has complained about the current television programme, as with each of his words to the ORF. He quoted the program from ORF 1, from “How I Met Your Mother” to “Malcolm in the middle of” and “Die Simpsons”. I would recommend: There are also ORF 2, today very interesting: “Autofocus, Electric Mobility”, “ZIB 2”, “World Journal”, “Club 2” and so on. And I can recommend those who have a video recorder – especially those from Carinthia – to: ORF 2, 20.15: “The Miracle of Carinthia”. I'm sure it's a very recommended show. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The “Kronen Zeitung” writes in its preliminary critique: ‘Whoever does not cry is heartless.’ – Unfortunately, we will not be able to see this show, but I will let that happen to me. Now to you, Mr Lopatka: Since your youth, the media scene has evolved considerably, from the trade fair and shift workers program, which could be received effortlessly on ORF 1 with a dragon antenna – not to talk about ORF 2 at all, as you went through half the living room with the dragon to receive something at all – to the technological developments, to today's variety of programs. In the hard competition, the ORF has gradually caught up in recent years and, above all, in the era of Alexander Wrabetz. I am thinking of DVB-T, of HDTV, of the new programming channels, of the sector stations, of ORF III as an educational and cultural station, of “sport Plus”, which was always an important concern, in particular the members of the Sports Committee. This offers not only the top athletes the opportunity to present themselves on television, but also the practitioners of peripheral sports. Mr Schwentner, there is a very comprehensive report from the ORF on the development of 2007 to 2011. I would recommend to you, under point 2.5. the chapter on Women’s Promotion and Generation Change in the Company to read through. I do not want to go any further now and refer only to the sale of the women's promotion programmes, the mentoring programmes and the gender equality promotion plan. This laid the foundation for sustainable, company-wide promotion of women within the ORF. I believe that this issue, which is very, very important to us, is also taken into account by the current ORF leadership. Ladies and gentlemen! Now, on the very core approach of this proposal – our clubman, especially the German Chancellor, but also my previous speakers, have mentioned this: The Greens want a “Rouss of Politics” from a public-law television and the BZÖ wants a privatisation. The question arises: Who should take place instead of politics, instead of representative democracy? Whether the anonymous investors should be Should the banks be interested in taking over a television station? Should the big media group be like Murdoch, Kirch, Springer, Bertelsmann, or do you want Al Jazeera or the “Kronen Zeitung” to take over the ORF? - Then you have to say it here! In all the problems of all the necessary reforms that are important, Austrian broadcasting has to ensure that Austrian identity is also imparted to Austrians. And that these accept, show the turn-on rates. We have four million seers in the ORF, which is half of all Austrians. We're at the top of the world's radio at all. More than three quarters of all Austrians hear the ORF broadcasts. The new division programmes are also very well accepted. In conclusion: More self-confidence of politics, also towards critical journalists! I remember a broadcast this July, in which the ORF reported on how long it is supposed to be a parliamentary break and the politicians are not doing anything. At the end of the mission, the editor agreed with the following words: We now say goodbye on behalf of – I don't want to call the show – to the summer break and return in mid-September. Ladies and gentlemen! There is a relationship between journalists and politics, which belongs to fairly regulated and clearly structured. We need independence, diversity, control and transparency. Social democracy is always interested in further development.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e18248	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Gerstl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e18269	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Gentlemen on the government bank! First of all, I have to address Mr Grosz and urge him to take back the accusation to the Secretary of State, especially because he knows very well that his accusation is wrong and that he does not render a good service to the ORF or the Republic of Austria. Mr President, you know very well that Mrs Waldner has been in the ORF for much longer than Mr Waldner is in politics. That is why your accusation of nepotism must be rejected, Mr Grosz! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grosz.]] And, Mr Grosz of the BZÖ: Let's talk about what you did in 2006 in this traffic jam coalition and this election! Let's talk. on the transactions between Mr Meischberger and Mr Wrabetz. [[Oh, call at the ÖVP.]] Let us talk about the e-mails that were given at the time when Mr Meischberger was excited that the promised mission, which was first promised to him, was then not carried out! It was worth €3 million. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Grosz.]] That's what it was. Your purchase price for the approval of Mr Wrabetz! Mr Grosz, you have revealed: You also had a purchase price. Only: Today you're disappointed because you didn't get it. It's not about the matter, because if it was about you, then it would be You're not for a purely private stock company in the ORF. Because what makes a private stock company in the ORF? – This is due to the fact that this stock company also has to work profit-orientedly and that it can no longer be a public-law institution and that it can no longer fulfil an educational contract and that it can no longer fulfil the knowledge-based communication, but that it must only take into account the views of a profit-oriented media world. This is not what we intend to do, not what the Federal Chancellor has said here, not what my clubman has said here, namely to fulfil the public service mission in the future. And, Mr Grosz, I am glad that we are different from you. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Now I can come to the applicants. – From my point of view, the applicants have completely understood the incident of 23. It is not the starting point of the 23rd round of December that the debate is taking place today, but the goal of making a structural reform is not the starting point of the 23rd. ==References====External links== It was December that Mr. Wrabetz chose a man for his office without making a tender. And that is the point where you are wrong in your assessment, as my previous speaker Mr Lopatka has already said, namely the opinion of the Van der Bellen that Alexander Wrabetz's election was a signal for the restoration of a public-law radio independent of all parties. With this assessment, Mr Van der Bellen was entirely on the wrong side. And that is the reason for your disappointment and the reason why you are in favour of structural reforms today. But in the demand for structural reforms, we meet. ==References====External links== Our clubman Karlheinz Kopf said on July that the ORF needs, above all, a reform of the decision-making bodies. A smaller Supervisory Board, which is re-trained by the law of shares, should make all major strategic decisions and control management. The management should consist of a two-man board, one covering the journalistic sector, and another covering the commercial sector. That is why it was very, very surprising for us that you have now indirectly taken up the proposal made by the Greens, which we made half a year ago. Only: The target direction you chose was the wrong one. You should have focused on personal policy decisions, namely Mr Wrabetz, who has made the wrongest of the wrong decisions, who has also been led around by Mr Pelinka by saying to him: I'm offering to you that I don't have to accept this post now! Yes, excuse me, who makes the application: Mr Pelinka or Mr Wrabetz? A withdrawal of the request from Mr Pelinka, and the matter would have been done, but one sees in which Mr Wrabetz was hostage, who was now still celebrated by the Greens as a guarantee for independent public-law broadcasting. You have now revealed yourself to yourself, ladies and gentlemen of the Greens, and I would therefore very strongly suggest that we take the discussion about the ORF regardless of these personal policy decisions, that we discuss the discussion about the objective of the ORF in a serious framework, without any urgent request – today there is nothing urgent – and that if we have agreed on the objectives and on the structure, we also discuss the question: Where will the ORF be able to set up its headquarters in the future? And since the nail sample for the Greens will come again if they have to decide together with the SPÖ in Vienna whether they want to continue to suspend the pressure of Mayor Häupl that the ORF is coming to St. Marx, because it is about the fact that St. Marx has to be revived because without the ORF St. Marx probably will become a pipe-creper. Then you will see how much you fight from the Greens for an economically organized, independent ORF that does not have to go from your colleagues in Vienna to St. Marx due to party political influence, without paying attention to how high the price is. That's where the nail sample will come for you! I would ask the Greens and everyone here in the House, regardless of current personal policy decisions, to get there, to have a serious discussion in the Committee, to talk about the objectives in the committees and to have the consequences afterwards.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e18369	Next speaker: Mr Brosz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e18390	I would just like to make a few remarks at the end of the debate. First finding: We have now heard from the SPÖ in four or five speeches that there is either a board of foundations where party policy suggests and determines who the board of foundations is, or that the ORF needs to be privatized. I find it remarkable that in a two to three-hour debate, the horizon of the SPÖ club goes back and forth between privatisation and party book and nothing takes place between them. Thus, in the case of all legitimate criticism, which here primarily goes to you from the SPÖ and to the ÖVP, how this country is divided between red and black, not even to be able to imagine that there are social interest groups, institutions, scientific institutions, a civil society in Austria, which can be trusted to elect in a founding convention a Stiftungsrat, which is as far away as possible from your influence, is remarkable. I would have thought that this would have been more serious. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] To my colleague's head, who's not in the hall now: Not a single representative of the ÖVP – not a single one! – has only the approach, in a half set – Lopatka can continue to look in the paper and read it properly or now read it with the Petzner so that he does not have to look at it, you can do it all; that is the paper from the Petzner, colleague Lopatka! ; ah, yeah, that's the way it is! – mentions how the era Mück/Lindner was in the ORF. [[Abg. Dr. Lopatka's putting the paper away.]] Not half a sentence on the criticism that came here, not half a sentence on the appointment of Krieghofer in Tyrol, not a half sentence on the question of the central works council decisions! We are making a central accusation to Director-General Wrabetz: He has been able to re-octroy the party's policy, not only from Pelinka, but also from a staff package that was 80 percent ÖVP-oriented. ==References====External links== In December, there were posts in the interest of the EIA, starting from Ziegler, on the question of “Bundesländercoordination” up to the personnel decisions in the countries. And there was apparently the deal that, if that is done, there will be peace in which Causa Pelita will give peace. It didn't happen! But that has nothing to do with you. Not a half set of removal of the ÖVP! One somehow had the impression that you would have preferred to have been there instead of the eagle, pictures of Lindner and Mück would have been hung up, and then the good, beautiful and right ones would have come back in the ORF. It is clear to us: We find that mistakes have been made in the past, even in the structure. [[Abg. May. Donnerbauer: Did you say something to Strobl?]] – I said something to Strobl three times. But you can hear it again: The structure of putting a board of foundations directly into the company was wrong! Did you hear it now? Should I write it to you? Did the ÖVP get it? [[Abg. May. Donnerbauer: Abbitte!]] It was a wrong structure! You are not able to think beyond your horizon, it is so anchored with you. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] But I may also be able to end my remarks here with Armin Wolf and say to the question of the past: “In fact, however, one can also refrain from stupidity, not to repeat mistakes all too often, and even change problematic structures.” That would be a good conclusion to this debate today.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e18460	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution (Doc. Party policy out, real independence in itself. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for an acceptable sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. [[17:19:10]] The continuation of the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e18496	I take the negotiations on the 4th. Agenda item again. I call Mr Dipl.-Ing. Dr. Pirklhuber. Mr President, you had spent 1 minute of the originally voluntarily chosen time. Should I stop for four minutes? - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e18523	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Values Advisors and Watch the gallery! After this rather disappointing debate, which is also about the functioning of the of Austrian parliamentarianism – my colleague Brosz rightly noted this with the quote at the end of his speech: It would be possible for reforms to be imaginable, possible and sensible, even the worst could be improved if there was the willingness to do so! – now back to the topic “Chemical Law”. This would be and is a good example of living parliamentaryism. We have already tabled an amendment to the Committee, which the government groups have then postponed, together with the government proposal. And in the light of this, a novelle of chemicals law has been adopted, which the EU regulation implements in a good and efficient way, so that, in the future, Austrian citizens will receive the necessary information if they want to know what safety risks are associated with the purchase of chemicals. For information only: It was about such simple terminology issues. In our old formulation we had the formulation that all customers get this information. According to EU definition, however, customers were no longer understood as consumers, but only the commercial distributors of chemicals. This has been changed and we can therefore also agree to this amendment. But I would now like to address something, Mr Federal Minister, because you are here, because a good example would actually have to set the way to be efficient in other areas as well as to be active in other areas. I have an up-to-date response from you on pesticides, and I must say that pesticides are a specific problem because pesticides cause residues in food, in feed, in animal and vegetable products and ultimately in water. This was about the pesticides glycosate, Roundup, a total herbicide. In the context of this answer, Mr. Federal Minister – and this has surprised me very much – you do not give specific information on some questions, but refer directly to the German Bundestag. I have never experienced this before, that a Federal Minister is building on a question – which is admittedly based on questions that are discussed across Europe – directly refers to a question response from the German Bundestag. That's where I have to go. On this occasion you will already ask: How's it going? I do not know now whether you share this reply of the German Bundestag, whether you share it in some points or whether you may have a different opinion. You just tell me to look at the request, and write me a link. I want to know how you, the Austrian Federal Minister, stand by this! - That's a point. The second point in this question, which has also disappointed me very much, I must say, and which is also objectively wrong: You told me there were no statistics on the use of plant protection products in Austria. Mr Federal Minister, if that is true, what you are replying to me, then you cannot present a graphic in the Green Report every year on the use of herbicides, of fungicides et cetera. They represent these graphics in the Green Report each year. They answer me: “No statistics are available for use () of plant protection products. With the new Regulation (EC) No. 1185/2009 on pesticides’ statistics, Member States will in future be obliged to collect data on the use of plant protection products.’; Yes, you will have to live up to this commitment. In fact, we need to present the national action plan for the reduction of pesticides. There too you are juicy, as you know. But kurios remains that you have data that you publish in the Green Report, and tell me there are no statistics. There is an inconsistency, and this inconsistency will, of course, be massive in the coming weeks and months. [[Interference of Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich.]] – You can answer that. I didn't understand what you were saying. Please answer this publicly here, you can comment. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e18593	Next speaker: Mrs Schenk. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e18614	Mr President. Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! The amendment of the Chemicals Act is necessary in order to ensure the implementation of European Union regulations in Austria. My previous speakers have already given their views on this. For us, this innovation means, in particular, debureaucratisation and administrative simplification. There have also been a number of points that we have been asked to include in this new novel, in the amendment, and we will therefore also agree. But the look, when you look back, ladies and gentlemen, is anything but superlative. Already in 2008, according to the Ministry of Life's homepage, a novel of the Chemicals Act should have been adopted. This draft law then fell victim to the new elections. Three years have passed since administration could have already been saved. But that it does not take this federal government so seriously with the savings and does not have such a hurry, is it not true in many other areas, Mr. Klubobmann's head? – It is also evident in many other areas that Mr. Kopf does not even listen. [[Abg. Head speaks to Abg. Donabauer, who took a seat next to him.]] But we can do that too. There are still enough other Members who will do so, ladies and gentlemen, too. Now again on the history of this novel. The first novel was introduced in the Environment Committee last year. There were a number of concerns on the part of our group. Mr Widmann has listed a number of things that have been disputed here: double-tracking, questionable exceptions, limited consumer rights. The Greens have tabled a comprehensive amendment. As a result, the amendment was postponed and the amendments introduced in the last committee were tabled and the amendment was then adopted unanimously. However, it has also been shown here that not all confusions have been cleared out, quite the contrary, for there are still differences as to the double punishments. The Ministry of Economic Affairs considers that there are still double penalties. Double penalties are not permitted under the Convention on Human Rights. The Minister of Agriculture says that there is no such thing. We have also received an opinion from the ÖVP Club before the meeting today, which points out that it is precisely from our discussion, which was suggested by us in the Environment Committee, that we should contact the Ministry of Economic Affairs and discuss the possible legal solutions to this question, ladies and gentlemen. I think it is now very late in the decision-making process, that this should be discussed only now, but we will look at it, we will see exactly what is going to happen. Today we are giving our approval to this new law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e18662	Next speaker: Mr Steindl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e18684	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Schwentner, although it sometimes takes a little longer to adopt a change, the content is important. And the content is really fine with this chemical law, finds broad approval in the High House, and I think that is the benchmark. I would like to present some material content here. With the entry into force of the EU REACH Regulation, the applicable EU chemical law has been subject to a comprehensive revision, thus creating one of the world's most modern regulatory frameworks for chemicals. The following EU CLP Regulation has also established an international system for the classification and labelling of chemical products. Ladies and gentlemen! The aim of this EU chemical law is to capture properties of chemicals and minimise harmful effects on health and the environment that may result from the production and use of chemicals. All parties involved in the supply chain, manufacturers such as importers, but also Users now have to ensure that they produce, place on the market and use chemicals that do not adversely affect health and the environment. That was the great challenge of these directives and proposals for legislation. The innovation on Austrian chemical law to be decided today continues to ensure Austria's top position in this important area of environmental policy. This ensures that Austria is actively involved in the development and implementation of this legal area in Europe. It is also important for the companies concerned in our country to receive information first-hand and to be able to feed on their own concerns. Ladies and gentlemen! The amendment will bring about the development and modernisation of existing national regulations. Poison law is also made EU-fit and more efficient. The novelle lays down legal frameworks and user-friendly monitoring rules and ensures the implementation and monitoring of poison law and new EU chemicals law. Within the meaning of the Consumer Protection Act, buyers of hazardous chemicals, as before, should be able to obtain safety data sheets – a sensible clarification of the Environment Committee, which, as has been said, could unanimously adopt this novelle. – Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e18724	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e18745	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The REACH Regulation has been adopted by the European Union, making a decisive step towards a new European chemical policy. It is not only mandatory for chemicals to be registered, but there is comprehensive information on chemicals that are intended to lead to the establishment of risk minimising and reducing measures. This means that risks and risks arising from chemicals are to be identified earlier, avoid being respectfully eliminated. The basic principle is: The precautionary principle is applied. In parallel with the REACH Regulation, a European Chemicals Agency is also established, which is located in Finland. This will completely redefine an important area for the European Union, namely chemical law. Austria has been responsible for this, and numerous decisions have been prepared in the Austrian Presidency. We have excellent experts, such as Dr. Jakl from the Ministry of Life, an internationally recognized expert whose manuscript also bears this European chemical policy. This amendment to the Chemicals Act is urgently necessary as an accompanying legal measure in order to implement EU law. It is clearly defined here that there are responsibilities and also cooperations, or sanctions for administrative infringements. Austrian poison law is therefore being redesigned and procedures are streamlined and administration is reduced, simplified – especially in today's time, where we are talking about new structures and efficiency, a very important issue. The aim is – and this is also achieved – to increase the level of protection for the environment, for health when people deal with chemicals. This innovation contributes to the fact that the Austrian environmental model country is once again enriched and expanded with a mosaic stone. Austria was there as a co-designer in the implementation in a leading position. I am grateful not only to the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection of the House, in which we have very cooperatively adopted the law, but also to the federal states, which are crucial partners here, as well as to the economy and agriculture, where this novel was developed on a high level of cooperation and, above all, communication.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e18791	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Kuzdas. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e18812	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Chemistry can no longer be thought away from our lives. Chemical law is therefore increasingly being developed throughout Europe. The decision-making of the new Chemicals Act will also make the provisions in Austria much clearer, but the changes will also reduce administrative costs. Because it is not possible to think of chemistry from life, but not only to bring blessings, but also to pose dangers, I would like to point out at this point – Mr Steindl has already suggested – the importance of the safety data sheets, which, similar to a pack text of a drug, are brief and clear contain the most important information and should accompany the product across its entire supply chain. The Committee has stated in its statement that the requirement for the provision of the security data sheet is also made sufficient if the customer is informed of, for example, the invoice of the web link under which he can download the security data sheet. Safety data sheets are important documents in dealing with toxic substances. In particular, they are of great importance to workers because they also regulate what possible risks may arise in dealing with a particular substance. It must specify how dangerous substances need to be stored, as well as the proper handling, first aid measures and measures in case of fire. Only when these contents are actually followed in the safety data sheet can danger be reduced for those handling hazardous substances and can negatively affect the environment. Finally, ladies and gentlemen: The new Chemicals Act is an essential step towards harmonisation, greater clarity and a contribution to the reduction of administrative burden. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e18857	Mr Tadler has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e18879	Mr President. Mr. Minister! High house! With an amendment and a committee statement – the colleague is now looking very critically and probably wondering: What does he say at the end of the day? – and that was really important, Minister, in this Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, once again in the dark. It was really discussed professionally, objectively and competently. For the Chemicals Act, the task is to convert the existing and applicable control systems from the old to the new system, as we have heard, until the full changeover in June 2015. Although the government does not assume any financial impact, an additional burden on the households of the countries can be expected, as can be seen from an opinion from us, the country of Salzburg. The aim of the Chemicals Act is to bring important parts of the law into line in a new system regarding classification, labelling and packaging – CLP. Legal certainty for the addressees, for the standard recipients, is the objective of the regulatory regime to be applied. It is intended to regulate all chemical legislation by means of a uniform federal law, as we have heard. Proven elements – as the Minister said – of Austrian chemical rights are to be maintained in an adapted form in order to maintain the existing level of protection. As we have already heard, these are the special rules in dealing with poisons. It remains to be noted that the Constitutional Service of the Federal Chancellor's Office has delivered a 29-page opinion, with the whole law only covering 27 pages, Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e18927	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We come to the vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 1638 of the supplements: If you are in favour of this draft, I ask for a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. If you also give your consent at third reading, I ask you for your sign. – That is unanimous. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[17:37:59]] 5. Point Report of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on petitions No. 82/PET “To the Worldwide Atomic Exit – Shut Down! Now!” presented by Dr. Josef Cap, Karlheinz Kopf, Heinz-Christian Strache, Dr. Eva Glawischnig-Piesczek, 77/PET “To the global nuclear exodus”, presented by the honourable Member Mag. Christiane Brunner and Dipl.-Ing. Dr. Wolfgang Pirklhuber, 85/PET “Petition of the municipal community of Gmunden to the European and worldwide nuclear exodus”, presented by Deputies Dipl.-Ing. Dr. Wolfgang Pirklhuber, 86/PET “Petition of the market community of Vorchdorf to the global nuclear exodus”, presented by Deputies Dipl.-Ing. Dr. Wolfgang Pirklhuber, 87/PET “Petition of the Market Community of Eichgraben to the global nuclear exodus”, presented by Deputies Dipl.-Ing. Dr. Wolfgang Pirklhuber, 88/PET “Petition of the market community Vöcklamarkt to the global nuclear exodus”, presented by Mr Dipl.-Ing. Dr. Wolfgang Pirklhuber, 89/PET “Petition of the Municipality of St. Johann to the World’s Atom Exit”, presented by Deputies Dr. Gabriela Moser, 90/PET “Petition of the municipality of Seekirchen to the global nuclear exodus”, presented by Dr Gabriela Moser, 91/PET “Petition of the market community Waldegg to the global nuclear exodus”, presented by Dr Gabriela Moser, 92PET “Petition of the municipality of Hennersdorf to the Europe and worldwide nuclear exodus”, presented by Dr Gabriela Moser, 94/PET “Petition of the market community Hinterbrühl to the global nuclear exodus”, presented by the MP Mag. Christiane Brunner, 95/PET “Petition of the municipality of Langenlois to the global nuclear exodus”, presented by the MP Mag. Christiane Brunner, 99/PET “Petition of the municipality of Ried in the Innkreis to the global nuclear exodus”, presented by Deputies Dipl.-Ing. Dr. Wolfgang Pirklhuber, 101/PET “Petition of the Market Community of Altenberg near Linz on the theme “Petition on the World Atomic Exit””, presented by Deputies Dipl.-Ing. Dr. Wolfgang Pirklhuber, 105/PET ‘Petition of the municipality Weeds on March regarding “Resolution on the World Nuclear Exit””, presented by Deputies Dipl.-Ing. Dr. Wolfgang Pirklhuber, 106/PET “Petition of the municipality of Neumarkt am Wallersee on “Resolution for the World’s Nuclear Exit”, presented by Deputies Dipl.-Ing. Dr. Wolfgang Pirklhuber, 107/PET “Petition of the municipality of Ebreichsdorf concerning “Resolution for the global nuclear exodus”, presented by Deputies Dipl.-Ing. Dr. Wolfgang Pirklhuber, 108/PET “Petition of the municipality of Mödling concerning “Resolution for the World’s Atom Exit”, presented by Deputies Dipl.-Ing. Dr. Wolfgang Pirklhuber, 109/PET “Petition of the municipality of German-Wagram to the global nuclear exodus”, presented by Deputies Dipl.-Ing. Dr. Wolfgang Pirklhuber, 110/PET “Petition of the market community Karlstein at the Thaya to the global nuclear exodus”, presented by Deputies Dipl.-Ing. Dr. Wolfgang Pirklhuber, 111/PET “Petition of the market community of Gaweinstal to the global nuclear exodus”, presented by Deputies Dipl.-Ing. Dr. Wolfgang Pirklhuber, 114/PET “Petition of the municipality of Heidenreichstein to the global nuclear exodus”, presented by Deputies Dipl.-Ing. Dr. Wolfgang Pirklhuber, 115/PET “Petition of the municipality of Hundsheim to the global nuclear exodus”, presented by Deputies Dipl.-Ing. Dr. Wolfgang Pirklhuber, 116/PET “Petition of the municipality of Grünau in the Almtal to the global nuclear exodus”, presented by Dr Susanne Winter, 118/PET “Petition of the market community of Euratsfeld to the global nuclear exodus”, presented by Deputies Dipl.-Ing. Dr. Wolfgang Pirklhuber, 119/PET “Petition of the municipality of Grünau to the global nuclear exodus”, presented by Deputies Dipl.-Ing. Dr. Wolfgang Pirklhuber, and 123/PET “Petition to the global nuclear exodus – resolution of the municipality of Winden am See”, presented by the honourable Member Erwin Preiner(1639 d.B.) 6. Point Report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 93/PET ‘Petition of the market community Scheiblingkirchen-Thernberg for ‘Raus from Euratom’, presented by the honourable Member Mag. Christiane Brunner(1640 e. g.) 7. Point Report of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on petitions No. 100/PET “Petition of the municipality of Behamberg concerning NO to a nuclear waste disposal camp near the border with Austria”, presented by Deputies Dipl.-Ing. Dr. Wolfgang Pirklhuber, and 102/PET ‘Petition of the market community Stärgberg concerning ‘Atommüllendlage near the border with Austria’, presented by the honourable Member Dipl.-Ing. Dr. Wolfgang Pirklhuber(1641 a. b.) 8. Point Report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on amendment 1687/A(E) by Mr Werner Neubauer, colleagues on uniform rules of liability for nuclear power plants across Europe (1642 d. B.) 9. Point Report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on Amendment No 1735/A(E) by Mr Martina Schenk, colleague and colleague on Austrian experts for CFC stress tests (1643 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e19298	We come to points 5 to 9 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There are four rapporteurs on the points. Oral reporting is not required. We are now going into the debate. Mr Neubauer was the first to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e19333	Mr President. Say hello to God, Minister of State! The Environment Committee is over. We are so reminded of some heated and heated debate. I have been particularly reminded of the position of some Members of this House, which is quite superior and withdrawn, when it comes to the content of the petitions presented. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, what has been said about speech reports can only be glad that there is no official protocol, I can tell you, because it has not really been a piece of fame for politics, which has given politicians of ÖVP and SPÖ of themselves when it comes to legitimate concerns of concerned citizens of that country. I can write that to you in the main book. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If these petitions were to apply for a global nuclear exodus, which is probably not nuclear exodus, but rather nuclear exodus, because nuclear exodus would be a little too far, I think, as my previous speaker said, that all life is chemistry, and if a race from the Euratom Treaty is called for by communities, community representatives and citizens of these communities, then I think it may only then be possible that this House and the elected representatives of this House will seriously deal with these issues and not as it did in the Committee on the Environment. [[Abg. Hornek: You're right!]] If the Landesgericht Linz has not allowed an action by the State of Upper Austria against the commissioning and extension plans of Temelín, I must say: It is only then that we can decide what these basic principles mean for the citizens, because if this court finds in its judgment, on a request from ‘Raus from Euratom’, in its judgment, that it is not possible to do anything against this action and against this Temelín, because, when the Czech Republic enters the EU, this nuclear power plant has been removed from the European Commission and is found to be safe, that is what we need to note today. And if you are still referring to the Euratom Treaty because you say that the health and safety arrangements for citizens are already included in this Treaty, you know how important it is that there are citizens who are concerned because they cannot believe what is being put on the table here. Why not? – Because since the Milker Treaty, at least with the participation of Austrian experts, it has been noted that the shortcomings of Temelín have not been eliminated to this day, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I can only confirm to the head of state and to the Council of State only in its position to say: Here we go into appeal, because there is a gross lack not only in the basic position, but also in the legal position! That is why we in the Committee have also called for a greater impact on nuclear products at European level in the future, where it is also necessary to create legally-founded executionability. We have said that, unless they are closed, the shortcomings in the nuclear power stations close to the border must finally be eliminated. We have called for the documents for an environmental impact assessment or for a special environmental impact assessment to be presented to the EU in the future by all states operating or constructing such a power plant. You have to imagine this: A nuclear power plant is being built there and Brussels does not even know about it! I have brought an action against the extension of Temelín and Mochovce to the European Court of Human Rights. And what happened? – It was only after six months that I received a letter from the person responsible there who asked me how I even came to know that the operators wanted to expand, he didn't know anything about it. As a result, I sent him the documents, and now the legal procedure is continuing. – This EU is so far on the sand that it is practically discussing such important issues in such a way as to pass. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] On my request concerning Europe-wide uniform liability rules for nuclear power plants, which is on the agenda today, Mr Hornek has reported himself and has said that we would anyway have as great a liability rules for Austria, which are much more important than those in the EU. – Well, if I'm now thinking about what happened with regard to the CFC judgment in Linz, I have to say: We cannot assume what is great in Austria, but only what is great in the EU! Dear colleague Hornek! Do you know how big the damage in Fukushima is in the meantime? Then tell me! [[Abg. Hornek: Yes!]] What height? [[Abg. Hornek: Huge! Unimaginable!]] What sum are we talking about here? – He can be found at the moment. [[Abg. Hornek: You can't hold that in numbers!]] I know, it's currently 210 billion US dollars! Now you can imagine what is happening if Austria has a liability of 406 million. That's nothing if something actually happens! That's nothing! That is why I would ask you to reconsider this decision and to give our request the approval, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Finally, I would like to ask the Federal Minister for one thing: There have been elections in Croatia, and the new Prime Minister has said in his first opinion that he will try to get out of nuclear power and switch to alternative energies. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl.]] Federal Minister Berlakovich, this is a unique opportunity to finally stop the scrap reactor in Krško. Help yourself, go to the Croatian government, and we support them in their efforts to switch to alternative energies! Perhaps we can really get rid of this border-near nuclear scrap reactor. In this sense, I hope for your support.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e19461	Next speaker: Mr Hornek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e19483	Mr President. Highly esteemed Minister of State! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! In the Republic of Austria, decades ago, in the course of a decision on the principle of a referendum, it was clearly stated that we simply do not want the production of electricity from the technological method of nuclear energy. I therefore remember precisely because it was the first way of my person to be allowed to participate in a referendum at all. I also remember very carefully that it was a very controversial issue and that the most diverse opinions have gone through whole families. But reality is that, as the Republic of Austria, we are surrounded by many nuclear power plants in a variety of quality. Mr Neubauer, I have been taking this issue very seriously, for decades, but we must also look at the reality that this is a subject that needs to move us worldwide. The fact is that in the past the United States has put this technology very heavily, France and also the Federal Republic of Germany. But you are right that there must sometimes be dramatic events so that there is more reason to understand what dramatic events and side effects can result from them for decades. If you pass a subway station in Vienna, you will have a digital display of how long it will take for the catastrophic side effects of Chernobyl to be over. I saw a number of more than 140 000 days yesterday. Just to show this: In figures one cannot describe this suffering, this dramatic suffering, these many dead at all. Fukushima shows that even with high technical competence, a natural event can lead to a dramatic disaster despite all of this. All the more so, I believe that the consensus that exists in the Republic of Austria among the parties in principle does not consider nuclear power to be a meaningful technology leads to an emphasis on this in a joint effort to counter it. I am pleased that you, Mr Neubauer, mentioned earlier on a neighbouring country. That is why I am pleased because it is a rethinking process, because if we are aware of what some neighbouring countries have attached to development plans a year and a half ago, the Federal Republic of Germany has promoted the exit from the exit – we can see this together: whether Hungary was with the expansion of Paks or similar considerations in the Czech Republic – then we can say: These dramatic events have very likely also led to a rethinking phase there. Therefore, I believe that we should not direct energy into an Austrian conflict among the groups, but together we should convince our neighbouring countries of the meaning of an exit and should also give them a hand in this regard. What I meant in the course of the Committee, Mr Commissioner, is that I can say clearly and clearly: There is a marked point that differs between what is common at European level and in those countries, which operates nuclear power plants. Austria currently has no liability cover, and that is sensible because we do not want to. I would like this to be the case throughout Europe – precisely because of what you are saying, because it is not acceptable for you to be fed down with an amount of x if it would result in such an incident. And I do not want to imagine this incident in Europe, which would mean and could mean it. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: We have to imagine this unfortunately!]] Therefore, our energies must be directed exactly in the following direction: Towards renewable energy. There has also been a fundamental consensus on the eco electricity law. I admit that there has been an intense discussion, but the final result can be shown. I can also point to an example from my home region – and I am very proud of that. The goal of my home region is to become an energy self-sufficient one of the first regions in Austria. This is the Wind Initiative Forest District, which has been established across parties, where one has conducted a discourse with the population, where one has balanced for and against and has led the population to see how sensible it is to have its own energy production in the form that one can participate in this society by buying this electricity. And we are responsible for how we shape our energy production in Austria in the future. That's a common way. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Hopefully!]] I'm not saying that was just my idea. I'm not saying that's an ÖVP idea, but that's a Waldviertler idea. And I wish this Republic a lot of Waldviertler ideas.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e19532	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Pirklhuber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e19554	Mr Hornek! Federal Minister! I would like to take up the point that this is about regional initiatives – you mentioned the Waldviertel. I would like to start with the procedure, which is actually being negotiated among these TOPs today. Mr Neugebauer has had a very long time, because it is time to read out all these resolutions, petitions that are being negotiated among these summits. Now I would like to read to you that petition that was first brought by a parish councillor of a community who is not ruled by a green mayor, but where one came to the conclusion that one has to go – yes, is very difficult, there are not many – together to do so. [[Abg. Wenninger: Should be there too!]] It is the market municipality of Altmünster. I will read to you this short letter: (The sitting was suspended Resolution ‘to the global nuclear exodus’ Ladies and gentlemen! As can be seen from the example of Japan, the operation of nuclear power plants is a game with health and life of the population. Security failures, natural disasters, human failure, terrorist attacks or accidents can never be completely excluded. Therefore, it is high time for revolutionisation” – writes the municipal council – “to supply energy and to switch to renewable energy sources. The environmental protection organisation GLOBAL 2000 has set up a petition for the current occasion, whose objective is, among other things, a Europe-wide referendum on nuclear exodus. Our community's nearest nuclear power station is only approx. 150 km away. At its meeting on 29.03.2011, the municipal council of the market municipality of Altmünster decided to support this petition of the environmental protection organisation GLOBAL 2000, to forward it in the form of a municipal resolution to the Austrian Parliament and the Federal Government and to call on the federal policy to stand up for a European and global nuclear exodus.” This is one of the formulations as it sounds from the communities. Here sounds this call for a revolution of energy supply. Here is a clear task for federal policy to do everything possible to make the nuclear exodus possible in Europe. Ladies and gentlemen! On this occasion I would also like to mention that I am already disappointed that the government parties have not managed to put together a request here, namely to decide on this resolution here today. I would have liked to have decided on a five-party proposal here, in which we would have continued this very intention of the citizens and also of our clubmen. I would like to mention the petition that more than 700 000 have signed. Colleague head looks at me. Remember? This has been brought in by all the club men and women, including as a petition. And you could expect, if that's on the agenda, that the petitioners also feel: So, this has finally led to the fact that there is a cross-party shoulder closure here – on all important and difficult issues of legal matter, no question, no light thing – that there is a clear commitment in one direction here. I call on everyone, especially the Federal Government and the government groups, to finally put all the concepts on the table here, so that we can develop a paper at the next Committee on the Environment, a resolution, a request, so that it can really be done – yes, that was also our proposal. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wenninger.]] We made a request, you had another one. And I hope we will continue to negotiate here and come to a good conclusion, Mr Wenninger. But one thing we can decide today, and we should do the same: This is simply the commitment to take these citizens' initiatives, these petitions, these councils seriously, and to assure them that they are properly informed by the Austrian government, by our House of the strategy that we will decide on. Therefore, I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen, this is not a content, it is a formal story. This is a question of courtesy, of the serious concern of the citizens, which we, I hope, can decide together here. We have already tried it in committee. I was very surprised you didn't think it was necessary. I hope you give yourself a back today. This is not yet defined in the position, but in the basic attitude that we will all be properly informed, because this is what the citizens and, above all, the councillors and the mayors deserve to receive a proper answer. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e19615	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Pirklhuber is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e19670	Next speaker: Mr Wenninger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e19691	Mr President. Federal Minister! Dear Delegation of the Young Generation from Wiener Neudorf! Mr Pirklhuber, there is a second part of the truth about the procedure. We have a variety of supportive petitions from cities and communities, across all the political camps that support us in our anti-atomic strategy, which was caused not least by the terrible experience of the disaster of Fukushima. We have dealt with these – Mr Pirklhuber, like me, member of the Committee on Petitions – in a way that citizens can expect from the Austrian Parliament. These petitions have been received in the Committee on Petitions. As usual, we have received opinions and have held an expert hearing in the Petitions Committee with representatives of environmental organisations, various ministries, the Federal Chancellery, the Austrian Municipal Association et cetera. Following this expert hearing, we have forwarded these petitions to the Environment Committee, which is discussed here once again and today in plenary. I believe that this process can also be exemplary for other materials coming into the house through the Committee on Petitions and Citizens' Initiatives. We will of course reply accordingly to the subcontractors so that they are also informed about the process. In principle, the content of these petitions, one of which was also signed by four members of the parliamentary groups, with the exception of the BZÖ. But I do not think that was really a matter of content, but that was only the absence of Mr Bucher at that time. With this, we can assume that there is a five-party agreement that this petition “turns off! Now!’ supports an immediate shutdown of all high-risk reactors in Europe and an end to the extension of the term. Let's go one step further. There have been several requests in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, and it was our suggestion to find a common position on the part of the government groups to postpone our own request with the offer to the opposition until June meeting of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, to form a five-party request. Until summer is enough time, and until then we can still vote on our political positions and formulate a five-party application with a clear positioning of the Austrian National Council on the anti-CFC policy. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] This invitation was accepted unanimously. We are not only reaching the hand in this matter, but especially because we believe that it is necessary not only to have a political consensus in the anti-atom question in Austria, but Also to be formulated in relation to those countries which are still not convinced that nuclear energy policy is the wrong direction. I ask for approval of this procedure and for the support of our position on the part of the opposition.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e19742	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Widmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e19779	Mr President. Enough of the beautiful words spoken! Mr Weninger from the SPÖ – this also applies to the ÖVP – it is not a question of dispersing content at all, but do you know what the big difference is? [[Abg. May. Gässner: Then everything is clear anyway!]] – That there has already been enough talk on the nuclear question. There are already enough petitions, there are enough decisions here in the High House, there are enough decisions of the communities, there are enough decisions of land days, but there is no action of this federal government. [[OBJECTIVES]] [[Abg. Wenninger: There can't be enough petitions!]] And that's the subject! [[New call for tender of the Abg. Wenninger.]] If you want to have nice decisions, then in June we will be happy to make one – unanimously – because we have no problem, but finally put it into practice! Finally, put to the vote the decisions taken by the House! For the citizen, it is really more than unsatisfying to send a political deadlock, a petition here to the House. What's going on? – The Committee on Petitions, chaired by Ursula Haubner, is trying to deal properly with this, is assigned to the Committee on the Environment, and in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, we are invited to discuss the matter there, we are talking about it, but we are talking about a conlusio, a guide to what is happening to it. [[Abg. Wenninger: Expert hearing!]] [[Abg. Wenninger: Oh, yes!]] There's nothing but silence. In the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, we are then discussing the question of informing petitioners of what happened. But that is what you and the colleagues from the ÖVP have rejected. It is a matter of course that you answer letters. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] We are not yet talking about political action, we are only talking about a letter of reply. This too you refused the people outside. That is why you are no longer taken seriously, not in Austria, nor at European level. In reality, their anti-atomic policy is only available on paper, but no longer in very concrete actions. That was the case with Euratom. In connection with Euratom, the Federal Chancellor has here announced that this will be the nuclear exit agreement – in press releases, in the government programme. And what has happened to this day? - Nothing! Euratom “lives” under quotation marks. We pay € 40 million to € 80 million annually, and Faymann failed. Dear friends of the SPÖ, you can only get to the nose, because on the SPÖ homepage, on spoe.at, says: “With the population for the nuclear exit”. ==References====External links== ==References== And Mrs Rudas – she is not present now because that is no longer important to her – then, together with Mr Faymann, she continued: [[Abg. Wenninger: Where is your booker? Where's your clubman?]] “Detrace the lies of the atomic lobby”, “stress tests with bites”. Mrs. Rudas and Mr Faymann said: “Stress tests with bites”. And what did we get? – Adaptive stress tests, which approve of all nuclear power plants in Europe – or is there a result that says a nuclear power plant would not be all right? Now I ask you: Where is the contradiction? – Mr colleague from Upper Austria, I am from the district of Freistadt and I know what I am talking about. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Shopf.]] I've been active there against Temelín for almost two decades. The Temelín Commission has found out that some questions are open. The question of high-tech lines, the question of valves, et cetera. And the stress test has now said to Temelín: No, it's all right, it's all right, it's all right, it's all right, it's quiet! Upper Austria continues to process Temelín – the government – on the basis of a decision taken by Ursula Haubneral Environmental Country Councillor ten years ago. The government says: No, that's not possible at all, you can't get out of Euratom, you can't complain about Temelín, and EU law will change everything anyway! All the pallets to get back to Brussels, to protest with sect there, and to say that we are good Europeans. We also have rights in Europe, and these rights must at last be demanded by this government, but that is not happening. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I could now quote here side by side, from the fairy tale hour Faymann/Rudas, what you promise people everything you would do, but in fact do not do. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wenninger.]] What you're doing here is a rear-light leading and an in-stitch leaving of the population on basic security issues. The whole process continues with nuclear waste storage near the border: There is also a request for it, and nothing has happened. On the contrary, something very bad happens at European level: Mr Oettinger, an energy Commissioner, has set up a very nuclear-friendly EU directive, which states that by 2015 all countries will have to demonstrate where they will house their nuclear waste. In three years, what you didn't do in 30 years. But the result will be that we are going here and that this nuclear waste in cheap countries, in developing countries, in emerging economies will be cheaply hidden somewhere, and then we have the major environmental disasters. But we great Europeans then freed and freed ourselves from this nuclear waste and these dangers. – These are the things you cannot accept. I've already mentioned the stress tests. The question of liability, also this is addressed by Faymann in his basic paper with colleague Laura Rudas. What happened in the liability question? - Nothing! The question of liability has been settled in America since 1973. There, the amounts for the liabilities are so large that no new nuclear power plant has been built since then. Maybe there's a turn now. But what is the European Union doing? What does social democracy do, what does the People's Party do at European level? [[Abg. Wenninger: The booker is negotiating right now!]] - Nothing! They're not bringing themselves in. I do not know that you have made an excuse at European level in order to really achieve something here. Current topic: Get out of nuclear power! There has been a summit on this, and the NGOs are actually very dissatisfied in this regard. We want to be nuclear-free, of course, but that also means preventing this gray stream in the label. What are you doing? – They fall down, because the IV screams, perhaps also the AK and the Chamber of Commerce: No, for God's sake, then the price of electricity will rise! – I don’t think the electricity price will rise. Teurer will be if we stay dependent. And these are the things you say A and B do. Or: They support banks – I do not call banks now, you know which banks I mean – from the bank rescue package with liabilities, with billions, and precisely these banks finance the construction of new nuclear miles around Austria. That's what I'm asking myself: What is the policy that is supported here? That is why the credibility of your request, which you are planning for June, is more than questioning, because this government has completely failed to deal with Euratom, and it has not yet made any progress in the matter of quality at Temelín. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl]] They did nothing but take a few sluices with NGOs, but they did not enforce anything, they did not enforce anything politically and, like the colleague of the ÖVP, actually thought loud and did nothing. In connection with the stress tests, you have promised high-quality tests in order to make the nail sample really – I say that now: Is that the standard? – And what comes out? Scrap tractors with a mix of American and Soviet technology à la Temelín remain on the net, are found to be in order, reactors in earthquake zones are also found to be in order. [[Abg. Wenninger: Where did you get this?]] I ask you: What else does everything have to happen? It would have been a failure if you had called the International Atomic Energy Authority in Vienna, where 2,000 employees work at an annual budget of €330 million a year instead of creating any Alibi stress tests with which only the atomic lobby itself exhibits Persians. You have not addressed the liability question, even internationally. Of course, you have not taken any legal steps before Fukushima when it came to extending the duration of the power plants in Germany, that new nuclear blocks arise, for example in Temelín, two new ones. It is also a question of applying the EIA law in Europe. They have also done nothing legal, although university professors have repeatedly pointed out that this would be more than necessary. Finally, I make a request – this is really a very small sample of nails; that's just about whether you're still ready to do something in the anti-atomic policy at all, because it's about Temelín, that's about open security questions –: [[Quoted print version removed]] No, I'll tell you now. You agree, then you are credible, otherwise you have completely playful! - Thank you. [[Call: What about the agreement]]
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e19982	The application submitted is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e20046	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e20067	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Mr Widmann, you have said very well here that the Austrian Government has done nothing on the nuclear issue. The hook in your statements is: You're not right! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] It is proven that we have set up a number of activities from the beginning and that Austria is also credible because we do not use nuclear power like twelve other states in the European Union. [[Abg. May. Widmann: Where?]] Therefore, it is also important that petitions have arrived, which document that the communities, the citizens, are behind the federal government and that, in a course against the nuclear power of Austria, the back is strengthened by the fact that this course is carried by a broad basis. The fact is that, of course, all petitions that have been sent to the Ministry of Life have been answered and properly reported on what our activities are, that is quite clear and of course – because you have held a debate in the Committee and here, whether and how and what. It is clear that the Ministry answered the petition. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: We'll check!]] But now to the anti-atomic policy: The disaster of Fukushima was such a point where the world once again held its breath, and the consequence is to draw the right conclusions from it. Be honest: After this topic has disappeared from the headlines, there are no longer many dedicated to this topic. Not so we on the part of the Austrian Federal Government. A few days after Fukushima happened, we have already adopted a joint action plan in the Federal Government under the title: “International rethinking from nuclear energy to renewable energy and energy efficiency”. We acted very quickly, we were the first European state to become active in this regard. The baseline in the Federal Government and also in the government programme is not only that since Fukushima: Atomic power is not safe, nuclear power is not sustainable. Many in the world, however, see this differently. Especially when it comes to climate protection and reducing greenhouse gases, getting rid of fossil energy sources, more and more states are relying on the use of nuclear power and saying that no CO2 is produced, and therefore it is climate-neutral. As the Austrian Federal Government, we do not take this position, but rather, we say that the use of nuclear power is not sustainable, because the question of highly radioactive waste is completely unexplained. Nowhere in the world is there a safe repository, the highly radioactive waste is stored anywhere. Thus, the problems of the energy question are shifted from coming generations to millenniums. Therefore, nuclear power is not sustainable. There are also constant efforts to include the use of nuclear power in international climate protection programmes at the Cancun Climate Change Conference. Austria has prevented this with a few other countries, because that would be the wrong way. We need to move towards a sustainable energy system, which focuses in particular on renewable energy sources. But it has been doing a lot in Europe since Fukushima. Germany has risen out of nuclear power or on its way there. And there, too, it was an activity of the Austrian Federal Government. Half a year earlier, when the German Federal Government decided to extend the life of nuclear power plants, it was also some of the other old nuclear power plants that had said that Isar 1 was locked up. That was quite a conflict with Germany, but we did not hurt it either because it concerns the interests of Austria, the security of the population of Austria. At that time, half a year before Fukushima, no one would have given us any chance that the German nuclear power stations could really get out of the grid. And Germany has drawn the right conclusions. It was a courageous decision of the German Federal Government to say: We turn and go a new path, one against nuclear power! Isar 1 and several other nuclear power stations were shut down and the exit was prepared. After long internal discussions, Switzerland has decided not to expand nuclear power plants and plans to stop them. Italy has stated in a referendum that one does not want to get back into nuclear power. That means a lot of things are happening around us. As a consequence, two days after Fukushima, Austria initiated the stress tests. I told the Commissioner of Energy Oettinger at the time because many people in Austria said and asked: Fukushima is far, but what about the nuclear reactors around us? How sure are they? Can such a catastrophic event happen near us? That is why the idea of the stress tests was taken from Austria. Oettinger took over. And Austria has been there until the end because the proper, consistent stress tests are, and we have implemented that. And I know there's a lot of people who say these stress tests are Persians for the atomic lobby. This is never in the mind of the inventor, but on the contrary: For the first time, we are in a position to have a single methodological system across Europe, as nuclear power plants have been checked, because the nuclear lobby is currently examining itself, each state is examining its nuclear power plants itself. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: But please, the exit is not guaranteed, Minister! How is this supposed to ensure the exit?]] There is now a single European system. First point. We have a three-stage procedure where all the incidents and crises are tested, not only if the technical equipment leaves out, but also the effects of earthquakes, plane crashes and terrorist attacks are tested in another working group. Three-stage procedure: The first step is: The operator must provide data. The second stage is: The national nuclear supervisory authorities shall examine this data. And the third stage is – and this is the crucial thing – that at the European level peer review teams review these tests of the nation states and that these teams also drive to the national states and test nuclear power plants there. And what we always said happened. We have said that they must be transparent and open. And there will be a process of participation where the public can also discuss these results. So Austrian demand for transparency met. Second point: We said they had to be independent. This is also ensured because independent experts participate in these peer review teams, these European review teams. Were it originally two Austrian experts, we have now succeeded in anchoring four Austrian experts, who are recognized to be part of these peer review teams. One of them, an employee of my ministry, is in the management board, in the eight-member board at European level, where the peer review teams are coordinated. Three other experts are involved when driving to the countries to check the nuclear power stations. This is proof that these stress tests are consistent and that nuclear power is to be checked and that proper results are also intended to show mercilessly where the defects of nuclear power plants are. And that is the way we will continue in the future! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] The first results are available. In France, it has been found that the nuclear power stations have a retrofit demand of between €10 billion and €15 billion. What do you think there is a discussion there?- Oh, my God! And that's what we need. The fact that the debate is being held here is all right, where we are all opposed to nuclear power anyway, but we need the discussion in France, Belgium, the UK, in the states that themselves rely on nuclear power. I've talked to all these ministers, and they're saying, We want our own energy supply! United Kingdom, for example. They say: The oil ends, that's why we rely on nuclear power! It is therefore necessary to have a discussion in the individual national states. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Support the Greens there!]] Austria supports this. In May, I invited all those states of Europe, which do not rely on nuclear power, to Vienna to form an anti-atomic alliance. We are now a group of states that will continue these meetings, so that Fukushima will not be forgotten and that we will remain consistent and push back nuclear power – at a time when energy is becoming increasingly expensive and more and more energy is needed. This is a difficult and hot fight, but we will definitely lead it because it is necessary. The next point: Getting out of Euratom, because this is being discussed over and over again. . Our position is clear, honourable Member, even if you are always saying it differently: The position of the Austrian Federal Government is to take part in Euratom. It has failed to speak and to form inside, than to stand in front of the door and to make decisions. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Widmann.]] That was always our position! And we've achieved that, too. In Euratom's research programmes, security research plays an extreme role and also the consequence of working with other countries in Central Europe on renewable energy systems. And finally, the nuclear imports: There too is quite clear, consistently, the objective must be that Austria, which imports a small proportion of nuclear power, will be free of it, quite clearly. Therefore, the perspective, when we say expansion of renewable energy, is that we will be free of nuclear power imports in 2015 by balance. In one opinion, it has been said that a nuclear import ban is not legally permissible. Therefore, my proposal is that there is an obligation on the Austrian energy companies not to import nuclear power. Most Austrian energy supply companies do so, two do not yet. And if they commit themselves, then it's all right. We have agreed that we will continue to discuss with the NGOs and legally analyse all the possibilities there are to ensure that we are free from nuclear power imports. In conclusion: There is a clear answer to this: energy-autarchic Austria, that we produce all energy in our own country and show other countries in Europe that it is also without nuclear power, if we consistently save energy, use energy efficiently and cover the remaining energy we need from renewable energy sources. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e20175	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Hammer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e20196	Mr President. Dear Federal Minister! High house! I think we all agree in this House that we are committed to a nuclear-free Austria and to a global nuclear exodus. I do not think it is necessary for us to try to convince ourselves permanently in this House, because we are all convinced that we want to follow this path consistently. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: And nuclear imports? What about nuclear power imports?]] We must continue our work of conviction in neighbouring countries, in the European Union together, and the Federal Minister has demonstrated impressively what initiatives and alliances he is making accordingly. I think we should really deal with this issue here. The communities and the resolutions that the communities have brought in – sometimes also from my community – only want to express that the Austrian population is also behind this course, which the Austrian Federal Government and Austrian politics puts in place, that the communities carry it in full content and thus also express the longings of the people in the communities, that it is necessary to act accordingly. But I would also like to say the following. When it comes to this common approach, we should all really focus on it and support our Federal Minister and the Federal Government accordingly when it comes to making a substantial contribution. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr Pirklhuber]] I believe that ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, the issue is really not suitable for constantly starting new applications or any populist initiatives, just to document that this issue is even more obsolete. We should bear in common what the government implements accordingly. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: What is parliamentarianism...?]] I can really underline the successful and consistent course of our Federal Minister and the Federal Government here. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: You're completely wrong!]] [[Further calls.]] Mr Neubauer! It is a matter of substance, it is not a matter of permanent profiling, of party-political profiling. And it's not about us setting up any symbolic file. [[Abg. New builder: If you make nuclear policy...!]] For example, the corresponding nuclear import ban has also been addressed. I believe that we should, just as the Federal Minister has said, deal with this issue in such a way that we do what we have just begun in Austria: consistently drive forward the expansion of renewable energies and the increase in energy efficiency, but not on legal issues as to whether this is possible or not. We should produce substantially bilaterally surplus by balance, so that we are not dependent on nuclear power imports. This path is consistently pursued and pursued, and we should draw the strength on it, because at the end of the day what counts is what we carry on substantially, and not whether we are therefore bowing down to legal advice. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Get some air, that's better for everyone!]] I would, however, like to highlight another point very strongly, because it is sometimes too short in your statements, which I would like to say, above all, as the civil protection officer of the country of Upper Austria, namely on the safety of nuclear power plants. [[Abg. Neubauer: Kapeller was better!]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: Much better!]] I believe that we should put a very special focus on this in the first episode, because the high objective we are pursuing, namely the global nuclear exodus, will not realistically have been achieved at the same time in the next few years. That is why the most important way of consistently improving the safety of nuclear power plants is to improve the safety of nuclear power plants. We also owe it to the people that we do everything we can to ensure safety as much as possible. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I really can express my thanks to Federal Minister Berlakovich. He has done this himself in his remarks. Compared to the nuclear accident in Fukushima, which has not even been a year ago, our Federal Minister has succeeded in establishing really useful, good stress tests in Europe, which have already shown shortcomings that belong to the removal. We are really able to increase the safety of nuclear power plants to the appropriate extent. I think that's important. There are recognized experts, fortunately also from Austria, who really ensure the quality of these stress tests. I think it is most important, in the sense of our people, to ensure security there. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, especially of the Greens! I'm really looking for you. Take note of the fact that the Federal Government and the Federal Minister are genuinely honest, consistent and competent in this issue and are also making many successes! You just have to recognize that once. Although it may be a green topic: Acknowledge that the Federal Government and the ÖVP are consistently active here! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Calls to the Greens.]] You have a bit of a problem in this area, because you think there are heritage leases on issues of energy and nuclear policy. I'm allowed to take your councillor, Anschober, in Upper Austria: It melts like a defiant little child, because the ÖVP consistently accepts energy issues. [[Calls to the Greens.]] There he is jealous because we occupy the subject. The objective must be to promote these issues together, to strengthen renewable energy with the long-term objective of a global nuclear phaseout. The colleagues have already quoted this: ÖVP and SPÖ have submitted a joint request. We hope we get a five-party request until summer. That should also be the sign that we are really moving forward our position together again and carry on into the future and that we are not constantly scrambling each other with any symbolic requests or profiles. We do not need this on this issue, I believe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e20357	Next speaker: Member of the jury. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e20389	Mr President. Mr. Minister! High house! Now we have heard of the last two speakers from the ÖVP, as they sincerely and honestly strive to make a successful nuclear policy. [[Abg. Steindl: 30 years!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Honest and honest politics looks different! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If German Chancellor Faymann announces that he wants to make the Euratom Treaty a nuclear exit agreement – similar efforts have already been made by several Federal Governments and Federal Chancellors before him – what should become different now? Argument Co-existence as a reason why we have to remain a Euratom member at all: From € 40 to 80 million a year we powder Austrians into this atomic lobby – and then there are no even binding safety standards in Europe, then there is no say in the Temelín security issue! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! What are we talking about in this nuclear safety policy at all? - Get out of Euratom, better today than tomorrow! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Minister! If you tell about the stress tests, and if you say 10 to 15 billion € are back in France to invest in safety: Who will invest these €10 to €15 billion? – The losses and these security measures are socialized, the profits are scrupulously collected by the electricity and nuclear companies. Ladies and gentlemen! This is not only the downfall in European economic policy but also the downfall of European energy policy! Mr. Minister! I am actually sorry for those people who are committed to supporting petitions in confidence in bringing about a change in politics. The same thing as in the Committee on Petitions is now happening in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection: On the back of the citizens, the government parties ÖVP and SPÖ are making politics, and the Greens are sometimes still the Greens. This is not a policy, as we Freemans want it for our future, for the future of Austria, namely to cope freely and democratically with the future. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e20446	Next speaker: Mr Schopf. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e20467	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to start by briefly referring to Mr Widmann's motion for a resolution. Mr Rainer, we have a brief discussion in committee on on this subject. I think it would be more reasonable to deal with this issue from the end of March. The reason is clear: The results of the Temelín stress test are expected to be available at the end of March. I also agree that these results will be published, that all parties here have the opportunity to see these tests. [[Deconstratetive appeal to the Greens]] Then it is possible – and I hope that we do the same – to draw the right consequences from it, and then there is a right to discuss such a request; not yet. That is why our group will not yet vote in favour of this motion for a resolution, and I would ask for an understanding of it here. I think our arguments here are very good and important. Ladies and gentlemen! At the beginning, I would also like to express my warmest thanks to many initiatives for the commitment to anti-atomic policy and, above all, to the fight against some nuclear power plants, including the many initiatives that are taking place for a non-atomic Europe; of course, as a miller of parliament, particularly those that are still tireless on the issue of Temelín and are trying to address this problem, especially those security problems that are still in place. Many communities and some cities have also come into this debate massively. There were many interesting discussions here, there were good resolutions and petitions, many of us are finally treating here today. I would like to thank the mayor of our group, Erwin Preiner, for the fact that the municipality of Winden am See in Burgenland has also unanimously brought in such a petition, which is now being discussed. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I think that our federal government – and some previous speakers have already pointed this out – is very, very active on the road as far as anti-atomic policy is concerned. I think and hope that she will continue to be active in the future. There are already some very concrete results. Some high-risk reactors have already been switched off, the idea of the so-called stress tests comes from Austria. It is important that we mention this point. As said at the outset: If the results are available – especially as regards our neighbouring country Czech Republic, as regards Temelín, and that will be the case at the end of March – then I am looking for publication. I believe that measures have also been taken as regards investment policy in Austria, in the field of renewable energy, and that this is important. Finally, I would like to address a second and also important point. It is about the so-called discussion about a final storage of nuclear waste from the Czech Republic. Here there are some communities that are repeatedly mentioned in the Mühlviertel, where there seem to be some reflections and already investigations. I mean, it would be important for us here to examine all diplomatic possibilities, but also all legal steps not only, but also to take advantage of the fact that we are preventing a nuclear waste dump at our border. I ask for the appropriate commitment.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e20527	Next speaker: Mrs Dr. Moser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e20549	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! There is no doubt that since 1978 there has been a consensus in Austria – exit Zwenten-dorf, referendum in Zwentendorf –: a consensus that has been forced by the population and that has been laborious for some parties, but that has produced a sicker effect over the years. Only: This sicker effect is that we are against nuclear power, that we want sustainable energy supply, an alternative energy supply, based on an energy efficiency measure, on an energy efficiency law. Unfortunately, this sicker effect is still not successful enough, Minister. Let's go through the row, we'll really tame the horse from the front. It is about using energy as efficiently as possible. You, Mr Minister, still owe us the submission of an energy efficiency law. [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich: Do the Minister of Economic Affairs!]] Since 1978, we have repeatedly discussed this issue. [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich: Just make the Minister of Economic Affairs!]] An energy efficiency law in Austria is missing. [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich: Just make the Minister of Economic Affairs!]] Energy efficiency policy at EU level is not provided to the extent necessary. Only in the light of the background can one be credible in the question of “Raus aus Atom”. As you yourself have now explained: In your discussions with your colleagues at European or international level, the issue is repeatedly raised: How can we meet our energy needs when oil becomes more expensive when oil comes to an end when fossil energy sources prove to be at last? – There is only one way, and that is to use efficiency potential. The second part of this path is to rely on sustainable energy forms, on renewable energy forms. That is why our positive standing leg always mentions in advance and in advance! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The other side of the thing is: This actually pan-European movement, which is also to be articulated worldwide with “Raus aus Atom”, has always – if we see 1978 as a start – only, unfortunately, when disasters happened, according to public opposition, according to public discussions and, accordingly, some measures have been taken. The petitions we all now discuss – only the titles fill up pages – the points are actually all consensus; not for nothing, all clubmen, including our clubwoman, have signed that. Mr Minister, in fact you should also be fully aware of the following: Turn off now, including this “Rauss from the Euratom Treaty”! All these points then have a public echo again, when something has happened, and that is the fearsome one. A tough, persistent struggle against atom is the only way, because we know that something is happening again and again. It always happens, time and again, and above all we also call the risk reactors in our environment, in the border area. In view of the background, it is so important that Austria takes a very credible position and that you, Mr Minister, are really pressing for the exit and do not wait long for stress tests. Think about it, too. Siemens, a world group, has passed the nuclear industry, has agreed to the construction of nuclear power plants; they are on the rise! They're going off – and you're still at the level of stress tests at international level. [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich:... the basis for the exit!]] For your part, we would have expected a clearer exit policy. How can she look? – I look back on experiences that we had already brought to paper here in the late 1990s. There was once a Madam President Prammer who was then a minister and who developed a kind of action plan. There has been a strip for the time horizon, there has been a middle bar or a middle column “measures”, and there has been a right column: “responsible”. There you could see exactly who was supposed to do something when, and you could cut it off. Mr Minister, that's exactly what I always do to you. They already call relatively many activities – there and there again and again – you meet again, but there is still no exit conference. The Greeks are now supposed to be responsible for this, and they are likely to do this badly. An exit conference will be held in the room, but where will the performer remain, where will the hakerl “it is done” then? Or at least: “It’s going on offensively”? – I expect this to happen: more strategic approach to a very, very simple work plan, in a time series of activities that Austria can carry out nationally and internationally with regard to and towards “turn off now, get out of this nuclear industry!” Therefore, please also take the petitions as an opportunity not only to comfort a joint request sometime in July or June. [[Abg. Wenninger: June!]] We have the anniversary of Fukushima! You know exactly, he's not just sitting in our necks, but he's actually a daily task to do something because something's going to happen again. I don't understand that – I don't understand very pragmatically: The petitions were signed almost a quarter of a year ago. Why don't we have an all-party consensus on this basis? – That was also the case in the 1990s, as we have made a lot of five-party requests, with tough negotiations ahead. Only: They were approached quickly! But now it is that petitions lie, that petitions then, as it were, go through a cycle, practically from the Committee: In the main committee they cannot be dealt with for formal reasons, then they come to the Environment Committee and then, as it were, they will end up with a national Council debate, and a joint request will then be put into the room a few months later. I mean, that's a relatively laborious, useless wheel, although it could go much faster if there's already consensus. So I'm – how to say? – Experienced in training to work tough and sustainable and to push something forward again and again, to put it in motion faster. I am not only appealing to you now, but we are always proposing to take on speedier things and also to act faster internationally. Please, let us finally make not only a common request, but also a common roadmap! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e20649	Next speaker: Mr Steindl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e20671	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen in the House! Of course, the ÖVP, in particular Minister for the Environment Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich, these petitions are very serious, because they are also directly related to the fears of the citizens. The Federal Minister has explained in great detail how many measures he has personally – but also the Austrian Federal Government – so far in this sensitive area. The Commission's proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! It is not, however, to hide that there are also facts that you can't get over. There is also this international autonomy that countries can decide on their own energy policy. We can only raise awareness, raise awareness. Austria is also a model country in this respect as far as energy is concerned. With one of the largest share of renewable energy, over 30 percent, we are also on the road for example. Mr Pirklhuber said that we should provide full information to the citizens. Ladies and gentlemen! But then we must also bring the realities to the eyes of the citizens! If it is true that electricity is currently 31 percent from nuclear power plants in Europe and about 17 percent internationally, then it will not be immediately possible to get out of this nuclear power from today to tomorrow. In addition, we know that, especially with regard to CO2 taxation, today energy generation from caloric power plants causes about 42 percent of CO2 emissions. There are a number of measures, and that is what people have to be told. Many emerging countries, such as China, are currently producing 27 new nuclear power plants. It's a total of 62 around the world. So: We will work to ensure that the highest security measures in this area are respected, that appropriate stress tests are carried out. This is, moreover, an Austrian demand, which will then be implemented at least throughout Europe and then perhaps worldwide. Finally, I would like to point out how strongly European countries, in particular, depend on energy. France, for example, has 74 percent of its energy from nuclear power plants. So if you want to go back by 25 percent, that would cost about €382 billion in France. Everyone will know that this cannot go from today to tomorrow. So: We will take a very, very good example of what energy policy is about. We will do everything we can to achieve the highest possible level of safety in this area, especially in the case of the surrounding nuclear power plants. We will have to have a massive influence on the terms of liability. In my view, this is also a decisive measure that will no longer be invested in new nuclear power plants, at least in the future. But we must tell people what reality is, instead of informing them in a polemic and populist way. That's what the realities look like. In the medium term, it will be possible to create appropriate opportunities in terms of nuclear exodus, but not from today to tomorrow.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e20722	Next speaker: Mrs Schenk. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e20743	Mr President. Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Schopf, it is either ignorance, or you deliberately say the untruth – that you lie, I do not want to put you here, and I cannot say that either, because there is a call for order for it. I'm referring to the outcome of the stress tests. They have said in the Committee and today repeat that the outcome of the stress test will not be available until the end of March. – The result of the stress test is present. The Czech Republic has presented a report to the Commission on the results of its nuclear tests, ladies and gentlemen. This report is available. He is there, and it was said – surprise – that no security failures have been detected. Why was our request postponed with the reason that the result was not available until the end of March? [[Abg. New builder: No!]] – Not No, you can read it in the “Small News ” and in the“ Salzburg News. ” [[Abg. Neubauer: The “Small Newspaper”! Shit!]] It's here! It's true: The stress test is here, the result is there, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to address this so that it does not get forgotten, but also because our proposals – as just recently the last – are constantly postponed in the Committee, for no concrete reason. The Minister has also spoken today of Euratom, which means that citizens support the line of the Federal Government to 100 percent. Mr. Minister! Every tenth municipality is for an exit from Euratom. You said here today that you can't imagine it, unless you're better inside than if you're outside. But what does that cost? – The eighth research framework programme, where Euratom is budgeted, provides € 1 billion for nuclear research for the years 2014 to 2018, ladies and gentlemen! This is not understood by the people, especially the 29 petitioners who have sent petitions to the Committee on Petitions. The petitions were forwarded to the Environment Committee. There they have not even been taken note of, and there have already been problems in voting, namely some Red and Black Members who did not even know where to vote and where not. President Brunner had to repeat a vote three times because some did not raise their hands. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the government parties! You will probably be able to expect that you are at least familiar with business regulations and know where you agree and where you do not agree! Finally, I would like to say that, as my colleague Widmann has already said, we are not available for the current nuclear policy of this Federal Government. There's a lot to do. We would ask you not only to speak but to act. The five-party proposal to be drawn up by June was also discussed today. There are two amendments to the vote today: One of my colleagues, Mr Pirklhuber, where we want to tell the petitioners what is going on in nuclear policy, and one of Mr Widmann and myself. You can speak here today and agree with our requests, then we already have two five-party requests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e20793	Next speaker: Deputy Duster. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e20815	Mr President. Estimated Minister of State! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear listeners! Nuclear power leaves no one cold: not only inside this space, but throughout the Republic. This is, I believe, expressed in all the speeches today. If you see the many initiatives – active, civil initiatives, NGOs, but also down to the communities where the citizens stand on their feet and just petitions to the National Council – you can see how important this question is to us in Austria. I also think that in politics we have been representing a common opinion on this issue for years, namely that we are all together against nuclear energy and against nuclear power. But one thing you also have to take note of: We can still hold so much together in Austria and decide everything possible, yet we are just a little bit across the European Union. We can only try to use our decisions to make opinions in the other states in order to convince them of our attitude. We alone will certainly not do this. I must say one thing, Mr Hammer of the ÖVP, very much appreciated. If you meant that many applications should not be allowed anymore, I have to tell you: I find that very worrying. I have to say: Thank God there are many requests that they should also be treated. They represent how important this issue is for us. That is what we should do in the future. [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber.]] Mrs. Schenk! If you have previously said that there were disagreements within the government coalition during the last committee meeting, I can tell you: [[Abg. Scheibner: Is nothing new!]] This has only happened because the chairman has not made the request so clear. That is why there have been disagreements, but not as far as the content is concerned. Let's stick to the truth! [[Abg. Scheibner: That may be your truth, but not the reality!]] Col. Josef Jury! You meant that politics would be carried out here on the back of the citizens and we would do nothing more. We take the concerns of the citizens here very seriously, and we are very careful about everything that has to do with nuclear power. We all know that this is a tough and pronounced struggle, as Mrs Moser has said. But there's only one thing: We need to keep on fighting and in our environment, that is, to operate lobbying in the European countries. I myself come from Carinthia, from a constituency, where we live in the immediate vicinity of the Slovenian and Italian borders. I should also like to ask, Mr Minister, that we continue our efforts in relation to the Krško nuclear power station – lock-up or at least increase safety. Above all, I would ask you to intervene particularly strongly when it comes to the debate on nuclear waste disposal sites. It is planned, both on the Italian side and on the Slovenian side, to build these deposits near our borders. But we are fighting the sharpest! We protest at the sharpest! It's just not allowed to happen! Minister, in this sense: full support for your efforts at European level. We here in Parliament want to strengthen the back of you and the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, and I hope that we will take a step further together in our joint efforts.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e20870	Next speaker: Mrs. Dr. Winter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e20892	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Minister, your remarks have been very euphoric and very good. But in one point I can correct you a little: They have meant that petitions and citizens' initiatives support the back and support the decisions of the government. – It's exactly the other way round. Citizens' petitions and citizens' initiatives are concerns in which they criticize and write down criticism or non-fulfilment and failure to fulfil their wishes to the government. They want to know extremely seriously. Mrs Moser, you meant petitions were left behind. - No, they didn't lie down. We deliberately waited two months in the Committee on Petitions to sum up the intruding petitions – Mrs. Moser! – and immediately called in a hearing and forwarded the petitions to the Environment Committee. [[Abg. Dr. Moser talks to Abg. Parent]] I hope to hear from the EU Committee Better to you than here in plenary. Ladies and gentlemen, the last meeting of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection was held on 11 November. Januaryen and had a very bloated agenda, 38 points, of which 34 were really transferred by the Committee on Petitions. I have to say that all these petitions are very easy to take seriously. I actually did not understand why there was a certain whirlwind about the massive agenda, because that is exactly what we did in the Committee on Petitions, namely bringing these petitions closer to the law. We cannot do this in the Committee on Petitions, so we must assign it to the committees so that they can be dealt with accordingly. [[As a result, the Commission has not yet received any comments from the Member States.]] Another thing: You from SPÖ and ÖVP had nothing better to do than bring in an amendment in which you have summarized, on the one hand, what you think has happened positively in nuclear matters, and on the other hand, what has yet to happen. They have also written down some very sluggishly formulated demands, one of which highlights a particular point: They said that you would continue to exert political pressure on the neighbouring countries in order to continue to drive nuclear energy and nuclear policy in the sense of Austria. So I would like to look at the political pressure: at Temelín or at the Czech Republic, at Slovakia, at Slovenia and Hungary. Germany has now decided for itself that it will turn off these 13 cars. All of this is a political eye-catching, just like the European Citizens' Initiative, with which you are constantly returning, seems to me to wish to pass on political decisions that you do not trust to the people, because you are quite sure that the Commission has nothing to do with treating them seriously and then to relinquish them. Ladies and gentlemen, the summits convened for Fukushima have actually gone nowhere. This is true for the July summit, when Chancellor Faymann was actually very positive and said that he was the one who created a pickerl for the nuclear current. The same applies to the current summit in January. It is then seen from the reactions of the newspapers that environmentalists are disappointed, legal questions are still unclear, such as the question of the import ban on nuclear power, so overall: no progress. Dear Members of the Federal Government, I ask you to do your job and your responsibility and work for this Austria, because environmental protection is home protection, and the home country is the future of our children!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e20961	Next speaker: Member of the Council of Ministers of the European Communities. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e20982	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! I believe that since 1978, when Austrian civil society has clearly opposed the then prestigious project of the Federal Chancellor Bruno Kreisky and on nuclear policy and energy in Austria No, there is also a consensus among us in this House that we do not want to do so in Austria. Not only did the events in Chernobyl or just a year ago in Fukushima show us the drama of this energy policy. It has always been the ÖVP, which has been on the side of civil society against nuclear. We wanted to take another step in Austria's anti-atomic policy, with a five-party proposal, a motion for a resolution in the Committee on the Environment. Unfortunately, we have not yet succeeded. We have now postponed him so that we can really get all the parties to it. The main features of this application would be nuclear plant testing, the so-called stress tests, involving Austrian experts. In these European teams we already have four experts from Austria. At this point, I should like to briefly mention Mrs Schenk. You said we were going to postpone opposition requests for any reason. It was a request from the BZÖ that we rejected, because he would have asked only one representative of Austria. On the content, we are of the opinion that the wording is not quite complete, that is why we have seen it a little further. But we also call on NGOs to take dangerous reactors off the grid immediately and to carry out the highest safety standards and international reviews. I also cannot understand the criticism of the many petitions of communities. We've done this very well. The Federal Minister has also said in a committee that he has attributed all of them the results and also the way in which the petitions have been dealt with. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: I can't! This is a programme of the Federal Government!]] It is really a bit plausible to accuse the largest mayor of Austria – and this is the ÖVP, because we have most democratically legitimate representatives sitting in the municipal offices – that it would not care about the communities. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Is this your idea of democracy?]] Ladies and gentlemen, now the Greens are focusing on these petitions. It's a little cheap and a little too late. If you want more direct democracy, I would like to invite you to participate, Secretary of State Briefly, this works out for our group. We want to go in this direction, because we've been on this road for a long time. But what do we have if we turn off reactors? Where's the power coming from? [[Interlocutor Dr Belakovich-Jenewein and Oellinger.]] It does not help, Germany turns off and Temelín expands. We really need to see the international component here, it's not national. It is therefore also noted in the resolution that the Federal Government is committed to this and that it should further promote international rethinking for more energy efficiency and more renewable energy. It is our minister who is always in contact with other countries, which also have nonnuclear energy, and is driving forward, because we need new sources of electricity, but we also have to allow them. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Energy efficiency! Do you even understand what this is about before you talk here?- Oh, my God!]] I would just like to mention the expansion of hydropower and the small hydroelectric power plants. We also need new power grids if we have new sources. And where are the greens in this regard? – On the brake when it comes to creating new systems. [[Further calls of the Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber.]] You also have to accept changes. Wind energy, solar power, hydropower and biomass, these are the pillars of the energy of the future, on which we have to put. But when we talk about biomass, I may also mention E 10, the addition of bioethanol to petrol. This allows us to substitute fossil energy. And what are you doing? - You're standing on the brake as well. The future of energy policy simply means: More renewable energy to keep value added in Austria, keep the security of supply in Austria, and thus guarantee the conservation of resources and environmental protection for future generations in our country.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e21067	Next speaker: Mrs Kaufmann-Bruckberger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e21088	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! In my opinion, the Austrian Federal Government and its nuclear policy are proof that sometimes between theory and practice only lip confessions lie. [[Abg. Hoefinger: No! I don't think so now.]] For example, Euratom and its many years of transparency, cost-truth is not understandable – and we also know that the Euratom budget has increased continuously. The proportion of Austria is allegedly not quantifiable. An expert speaks of up to €80 million, another expert says he would be well over €80 million. The German Chancellor's lip commitment to make the Euratom Treaty an exit treaty is not entirely new. An exit is even anchored in the government programme, but it has happened, at least officially, so far nothing. If you think of the bordered scrap tractors, you will of course immediately be reminded of Fukushima and Chernobyl. The insurance of wanting to exert political pressure on those countries that plan – or want to rebuild existing power plants – and Austria does not inform about it or too late, unfortunately, is only a lip commitment. This is also the opposite of the fact that the reactors will be switched off in the future. In truth, nothing has happened until now, unless it is about secret actions. [[President Dr. Graf takes over the chairmanship.]] Among the stress tests already mentioned many times today, there has been a very great surprise, namely that the TKW Temelín and the Dukovany AKW have passed very well. That says a lot about the quality of these stress tests. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] However, there is also the suspicion that the atomic lobby may cover the outdated scrap reactors, spread a protective coat over them, collect profits and leave the risk of the general public behind. Mr Federal Minister, even if you have told us today that the Federal Government has already done a lot in terms of nuclear policy, I appeal to you to let acts follow now, not just lip confession. Together we develop a plan for a nuclear power supply system.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e21134	The next item is the speech by Mr Plessl. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e21155	Mr President. Estimated Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In Parliament, 2011 was a very busy but successful year for work in the field of climate protection. [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: It's over! Let's talk about 2012!]] In total, 121 laws were passed last year. Some of them, such as the Ecostrom Act and the Climate Change Act, are taking an important step towards a complete exit from nuclear energy, and at the same time we are on our way to achieving the energy transition. In 2011, however, it was also a year when the population and many communities, especially in view of the catastrophic conditions at the Fukushima nuclear power plant in Japan and the changing safety of the nuclear milestones around Austria, again clearly deposited their concern and desire that they want a final exit from nuclear power. At the last meeting of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, we have dealt with numerous resolutions and petitions. From my district of Gänserndorf have also been treated a resolution or petition of the municipality of Weiden on March and a petition of the municipality of German-Wagram. Many Members of the Committee have appreciated this commitment. Ladies and gentlemen, besides hydropower, Austria is also heavily committed to wind power. In this year's year – we have implemented legal conditions last year – a total of €80 million for wind power and €28 million for photovoltaics will be provided so that the waiting list can finally be reduced in the area. In 2011, contracts amounting to more than 800 megawatts of wind power were awarded. In the coming months and years several wind turbines will be built, especially in Burgenland and Lower Austria. Thank you very much, too, because we have decided on the eco electricity regulation in 2011. This gives transparency and planning for feed-in tariffs and has given a positive signal for the industry. I would therefore like to thank the relevant ministers of the Ministry of Economic Affairs, Social Affairs and Agriculture, but also the relevant officials. Ladies and gentlemen, of course, the full exit from nuclear power remains our major goal. There was no solution at the last summit on Monday in the Federal Chancellery. The Commission's differing legal opinions on import bans and environmental organisations have been opposed. Once again, we want experts to carry out comprehensive checks on plausibility and possible weaknesses. The share of nuclear power in Austria is declining. Nevertheless, we must and should take action within the framework of our responsibility and for the generations that follow us. We must do everything in our power in order to bring about an energy transition and to be able to implement the exit from the expensive and senseless misguided nuclear energy. I invite all the political groups to a joint request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e21195	The next item is the speech by Mr Riemer. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e21216	Mr President. Federal Minister! No one doubts the innovative power and efforts of the Federal Minister, no one doubts the agreement here in the House and of course nobody doubts the competence of the mayor party. But something remains: Enough is never enough! Hiroshima, Nagasaki, Chernobyl and now Fukushima. What helps me the eternal speech, what does it help me if something happens tomorrow, or as it says: How are we there today, if something had happened yesterday, here near our borders? [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We're talking about stress tests, all kinds of controls, but I'm talking about lobbyists in America, I'm talking about those in Europe, I'm talking about those in Asia. What's the price? That's where we have to sit! But I'm also talking about the Earth's axis shift, I'm talking about irradiated people, irradiated foods, hunger, cold, disease, death and also the consciousness when no one hears, sees, feels, tastes and thinks this death. It is invisible to adults, children, and the unborn. What's the point of a stress test? The situation is that we have just heard that Austria is surrounded by nuclear power plants. So about 100, 180 kilometers away, they're all around. Please, Chernobyl has shown it to all of us. The districts of Deutschlandsberg and Leibnitz on the Slovenian border and the Südsteiermark are still irradiated and highly irradiated today. That's what the radiation experts say. Please don't eat too many mushrooms, and it's not recommended. This is fact, please, in the country of Styria – and that after 25 years. That's what I'm going to talk to the Krško nuclear power station. Krško's not having fun anymore. It is not about such a great work, it is about Krško standing on an earthquake line, and it has also clearly documented the Styrian state government by initiating a cross-border procedure in which 2,500 Steirer expressed their displeasure and dissatisfaction. The Styrian government has signaled Slovenia that they will not continue to carry it. They also ask the Slovenians to reconsider their new energy concept. At the same time, the Head of the Radiation Protection Unit was also assigned to establish risk factors. This is not even half a year ago, and he has found: Krško is dangerous, an unfavorable location, especially the spatial proximity to the Styria, 100, 120 kilometers from Graz and even less from the southern Styrian border. It was, of course, also assigned to civil protection, and disaster protection has found similar. If something happens, they're not prepared, they can't offer any help. The Federal Environment Agency came to a similar conclusion by noting that aspects of operational safety have not been taken into account with regard to an extension of the existing Krško nuclear power plant, an extension of the duration by 204 and the treatment of radioactive waste. In addition, the It was noted that the possible effects of major nuclear accidents have not been addressed in this programme. That is the task of the Federal Government. Today we have heard from Mr Neubauer that the Croatians are ready. I've always heard that Krško belongs half to Croatia, half to Slovenia. Now we can talk about it, and then we can say: Krško is switched off, without If and But, or we show the Croatians the European card if this does not help. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e21280	The next speaker was Mr Hell. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e21302	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! ==References== I would like to sum up the following speakers on this item on the agenda: All the political groups in this House and all the speakers in front of me have agreed to press ahead with a nuclear exodus. Debates of the European Parliament I can recall – the number comes from German media – that 433 reactor blocks are currently in operation in 31 countries. Only by knowing what we are talking about when it comes to speeding up implementation. We also agree that petitions brought into numerous communities reflect the opinion of the population. It is the fear of nuclear energy, especially when it comes to accidents. Fukushima and Chernobyl have clearly shown that nuclear power is not safe, and it will not be in the future. There is a desire for the population to take initiatives when trying to put end-to-end waste storage near the border with Austria or to put more and more nuclear power plants into operation near Austrian borders. It is not surprising, therefore, that more and more people have signed these petitions and have also known themselves in various protests to support these positions. My very much appreciated Ladies and gentlemen, sentences, like “With me the current comes out of the socket and he has no mesh,” which we used to know, are no longer good today. The issue of ecostrom has a different meaning for many citizens today than it did a few years ago. More and more consumers want to know where their electricity comes from. This means that electricity labelling must be an essential part of the transparency of electricity suppliers. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] According to E-Control, Austria still has a calculated share of 4 percent nuclear power, 14.7 percent of electricity is reported with unknown origin. My very much appreciated Ladies and gentlemen, we need more energy efficiency, and the promotion of the production of green electricity needs to be driven forward. We need a national but also international conclusion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e21348	Next speaker: Mr Tadler. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e21371	Mr President. Minister! High house! A report on so many petitions, which led to partial misunderstandings in the last Committee on the Environment. Previously, he was confused – he is up there in the back – with Bourbon, a member of Durban, and the one who has had 31 days since the last committee. [[towards ÖVP banks]] Back to petitions: A wonderful field of activity, with which, as was stated in the Committee, not every one of the Members present really knows how to start something, Mr Neubauer. Martina Schenkhat has already mentioned this. In this respect, it is a great thank you to the chairman of the Committee on Petitions, Mrs Ursula Haubner, who has brought the whole committee to life, especially with regard to this extremely important nuclear issue. [[OBJECTIVES]] The requests of the petitions included the immediate shutdown of the high-risk major reactors in Europe – for us in Salzburg is particularly important for the maroden, the Minister pointed out not only that Isar power plants should be shut down but also that they should be shut down – a stop for the extension of the life-time and the new expansion plans of the four nuclear power stations, especially in the Czech Republic and Croatia – Mr Riemer pointed out; a decommissioning plan for all nuclear power stations by 2020 and a stop of the billions of subsidies for the nuclear industry; the exit from Euratom – Mr Jury pointed out; Ecostrom instead of nuclear power and not its permanent prevention, such as our hydroelectric power plants in Stegenwald and in Ramingstein, planned in Salzburg. However, this seems to be a programme for some. Finally, I would like to draw attention to a Salzburg petition, namely the 129s concerning partial wiring of the 380 kV line in Salzburg, and to ask for support. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e21420	As the last speaker on this item on the agenda, Mr Neubauer spoke. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e21441	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! The BZÖ colleague said that Temelín's stress tests were here. - Yeah, they're here. The report has 399 pages and is written in English. I therefore wrote a letter to the Federal Minister today asking him whether it was possible for him to get a short summary in German, perhaps, so that we can get a little deeper into this matter. However, he is here, and contrary to what you said, my colleague, that no defects have been found, just because this was in the “Small Newspaper”, I can tell you a short selection of shortcomings that have now been identified: The experts concluded that Temelín would endure a breach of the southern Bohemian barrier to Lipno. According to Hlavinka, the stress tests also promoted the need for further strengthening the resistance of the power plants to extreme scenarios, and Temelín and Dukovany would definitely need to strengthen their safety measures. In Temelín, for example, another reserve energy source is to be used in the form of mobile aggregates, and in both power plants, the system for the disposal of hydrogen in the protective shell of the reactors would be reinforced. In addition, there is a massive criticism of a German Bundestag member who has followed these stress tests and found that these stress tests seem to have not really been tested objectively. It will now be up to our experts, the Austrian nuclear expert, to recognize from the present 399 pages whether these stress tests have really been carried out objectively and objectively, professionally correctly or not. In this context, I would ask the Federal Minister to make these analyses available to the Committee in good time by May at the latest, as has already been stated in the Committee on the Environment.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e21480	There is no further word message to this effect. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur or one of the rapporteur wish to have a final word? - That's not the case. We shall come to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First of all, we shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 5: Proposal from the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection to take note of its report 1639. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Dr. Wolfgang Pirklhuber, colleagues on: Turn off! Now! – information on planned measures. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall also proceed to the vote on agenda item 6: Proposal from the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection to take note of its report 1640. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to a sign. - That's the majority. The request was accepted. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 7: Proposal from the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection to take note of its report 1641. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is also accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 8: Proposal from the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection to take note of its report 1642. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to a sign. – This is also accepted by a majority. Finally, we shall come to the vote on agenda item 9: Proposal from the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection to take note of its report 1643. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Widmann, ladies and gentlemen, with regard to still open TemelÃn security issues. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. [[19:21:51]] 10. Point Report of the Scientific Committee on the Government Template (1410, e.g._Other Organiser Agreements between the Government of the Republic of Austria and the Government of the Russian Federation on scientific and technical cooperation (1646, e.g.)
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e21600	We come to Agenda item 10. There was no oral reporting. Mrs Mag. Mag. is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Cortolezis defeat. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e21627	Mr President. Federal Minister! In a globalised knowledge society, this cross-border networking of the scientific and research location Austria is an important element of science policy. We have already talked a lot about the Danube region and the Black Sea region today, about the importance of the Black Sea region also for Austria. Russia is one of the most important partners in the Black Sea area. All the more thanks, Mr. Federal Minister, for your commitment to the conclusion of this bilateral agreement, which will help the Austrian scientific site in ensuring quality, as well as the transfer of technology in both directions and ultimately to the Austrians through new innovations, through progress, through more jobs, more employment and economic growth. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] These bilateral agreements, which we have already discussed in the Committee, are common to many countries, and Russia is an important partner for us. Who benefits from such an agreement? – For one thing, the students, because it helps to expand the international range of studies. Who else benefits? – Scientists. In many discussions I have taken a picture of what is actually the most difficult phase in the development of a research cooperation. Scientists tell me that it is just the start, if you don't know exactly whether it will come to this cooperation in teaching and research. Travel costs arise, it means time, it means human effort. That is to say, at this very stage, this agreement is most affected by the support of travel and communication activities. But thirdly, society also benefits, because the more we exchange our know-how, bundle, focus together, the faster we can not only get out of this crisis, but also the faster we can develop new solutions in the sense of energy efficiency, for example, in the sense of exit from the nuclear current – a point that has already been discussed today – which may not yet be the state of knowledge, but it can be tomorrow through such cooperations. Such agreements exist, for example, with China, with France, with Great Britain, Italy, Korea, Croatia, Macedonia, Poland, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, for example. The Czech Republic, Ukraine and Hungary are currently negotiating such an agreement with India. I can only show the success balance: In the years 1997 to 2006, 2 854 projects came into being through such scientific and technical cooperation, i.e. an impressive balance sheet for the Austrian scientific site. € 5.5 million was spent by the science department during this period. Despite the means that are always used twice and triple, a clear emphasis has been placed on this area to cover the mobility costs of researchers. President Medvedev has devoted his term of office to the extensive modernisation and restructuring of Russia. This agreement is just right here, because who, if not science in its cooperations and science and the economy, can benefit from the exchange together? The international technology transfer is currently one of the most important instruments in the efforts of the Russian government to modernise the national economy comprehensively. For us too, the technology transfer is an important tool in both directions – for it is a partnership relationship – to support our economy accordingly, to create jobs, to enable growth. The major challenges, the fight against climate change, the handling of scarce resources, the safeguarding of energy supply, as well as innovations and structural reforms in health and food security, all of which are subject possibilities that can be precisely included in this agreement. It will then be able to set the focus accordingly within the framework of the profiles of universities and their internationalisation strategy. It was important for us to support such processes and bilateral agreements through the Austrian exchange agency. I would also like to point out here in plenary that Austria is the first country in the world to have the opportunity to present, through an electronic, interactive knowledge map, all its research cooperations internationally. All Austrian universities and research institutions have declared themselves ready to co-operate with the important geopolitical spaces, including Russia to present and show students where they can study internationally in cooperation, and to offer scientists even better opportunities to cooperate. Mr. Federal Minister, thank you and your place for this important milestone!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e21703	The next speaker was Mr Preiner. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e21725	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. The agreement between Austria and the Russian Federation on scientific and technical cooperation creates the legal framework for further strengthening bilateral scientific and research relations. Therefore, similar to agreements with other states, the exchange of scientists, experts, as well as young researchers is at the heart of these bilateral projects. In order to support, in particular, the joint participation in international research programmes, the financing of the mobility costs to be incurred by the two Parties on the basis of reciprocity is therefore advanced. A maximum amount of €90 000 per year for the project co-operation under the Agreement for the financing of this mobility. We can only benefit from stimulating research cooperation in the field of science and technology, I think. The research, science and education cooperation between Austria and Russia is traditionally good. Russia still has a lot of scientific know-how and potential, especially in the natural sciences of mathematics, physics and biology, as well as in medicine. I would like to give an example of the Ilizarov apparate, which has been used very successfully for decades after orthopaedic interventions. But I am also thinking of cooperation between Austria and Russia in space. Some of us may still remember the Austrian austronaut Dr. Viehböck. Joint participation in European and other international research programmes by the two Parties, taking into account national priorities, will therefore further promote bilateral scientific and research relations. My predecessor has already mentioned that €5.5 million has been invested in the mobility of young researchers from 1997 to 2006. I think that we will continue to be on a good path in the future if we make a maximum of €90 000 per year available for mobility. Finally, a personal comment: In 2009, as President of the Federal Council, I had the opportunity to start talks with the Russian science and research minister on mobility. I am very glad that these discussions have been continued at the level of the two ministries in Austria and the Russian Federation and are reaching a positive conclusion today. I would therefore like to thank you for your approval.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e21770	Next speaker: Mrs. Dr. Lichtenecker. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e21791	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We Greens will, of course, support this scientific and technical cooperation agreement. We consider it wise to push forward international cooperation in the field of research and science, and we consider this agreement with the Russian Federation to be an important basic document that regulates the various levels of cooperation. We already have more than 55 cooperations in Austria with our specialist universities, with the universities. Mr Minister, what I think is important in the field of international cooperation in research, science, innovation, is that we also define priorities. Many cooperations are partly one or are in the permanent coma, so to speak. In this respect, I think it is exciting that we should also put a particular emphasis in the Scientific Committee, namely to define exactly how we can move forward, not just through these agreements. In principle, I believe that it is also very welcome that we strengthen cooperation with the Russian Federation, because it is always an important aspect of how content is transported. It is best if people can work together well in different areas. In so far as: Yes, we welcome this, although of course one aspect is that the research rate in Russia is still a relatively low by 1.2 percent. It is to be hoped that increasing economic growth – at least stable at 4.2 percent – will also make progress here and can also be given impetus from Austria that research, science and innovation will be driven forward in this field.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e21828	Next speaker: Member of the list. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e21849	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Dear ladies and gentlemen! The BZÖ will also agree to this State Treaty in spite of some concerns. In the Committee's debate, we have already expressed our criticism of the present State Treaty. The reason: There is no forward-looking cost and benefit calculation. The benefit for our state of Austria is not clearly defined. In the attached sheet only mention is made: These fundings by Austrian scientists will have a positive impact on the scientific location, but this will indirectly strengthen Austria's economic location. In what form, ladies and gentlemen, is that supposed to happen? – The concrete statements are missing here. There is an acute lack of information for us. We would have expected the relevant information from the competent Federal Minister of Education and Technology, information on joint research projects to be intensified, or information on the specific scientific and technical areas in which cooperation with the Russian Federation should be strengthened. It's missing. Are these areas in medicine, physics, or even space research? - We don't know. No project was mentioned by Federal Minister Dägele. We suspect, ladies and gentlemen, that research is being carried out here in secret. Ladies and gentlemen, also the National Council – that is, we – should know on which joint research projects Austria and the Russian Federation are already working or which they will start in Bälden. We don't know. Only in knowledge of these projects can the potential future benefits be assessed for both countries. This is where we must act as parliamentary control. In accordance with Art. 12 this State Treaty is concluded for a period of five years. Before the automatic extension of this State contract for the next five years, it is necessary to act. The BZÖ demands that you carry out a cost-benefit evaluation of all joint research projects in good time, after four years, from the relevant scientific institute and from you, you should still be in office, Mr. Federal Minister. This report must then be submitted to Parliament and should then be evaluated here. This report is intended to form a serious basis for the justified extension of the The Commission's proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, Under these conditions, the BZÖ agrees with the agreement.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e21894	On a point of view, Mr. Federal Minister, Dr. Däderle, spoke. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e21916	Mr President. Honourable Members! The occasion of this agreement was a visit by the President of the Federal Republic of Russia last May, where this scientific and technical cooperation was discussed and Minister of Economic Affairs Mitterlehner and my Russian colleague Mr Fursenko signed this agreement. I met Mr Fursenko personally in the summer, on the occasion of the Nobel Prize-winner's meeting in Lindau, and I was able to experience his great joy and interest in this agreement personally. We already have a wealth of scientific and cultural relations with Russia. There is, for example, a Russian centre at my University of Innsbruck, which is financially supported by Russia itself, and there are in various institutes distributed across all universities in Austria, and there and there also at professional universities, relations with Russia. – That as my answer to the lack of concreteness that is seen here. Such an agreement is always a framework agreement which, as it were, allows and initiates the concrete projects. And lived – also to the criticism that some contracts and agreements are filled with little life – such agreements can only become if they are of interest to both parties, namely individuals or group interests, and the knowledge there is that you benefit from them. I am quite sure that in Austria, but also the Russians, we will benefit greatly from this agreement. It is about scientific and technical cooperation, it is about further promoting bilateral relations, it is about participating jointly in European and other international research programmes. The Russians are also very interested in having an agreement with Austria. As already mentioned, mobility costs are being funded. This is the most important concrete step towards cooperation. I think that this cooperation will take place in a wide range of areas. Of course, it will be in the field of science and technology, where it will clearly also grow economic benefits for Austria. But it will also be in the cultural field, where there is a traditionally good relationship between Russia and Austria, for centuries, one can say where two cultural nations can meet and exchange. I believe that the fullness of cooperation is great and not recognizable and not foreseeable. But I am convinced that in a few years – whoever, me or my successor – I will be able to make a success report. I would like to thank the Scientific Committee, which unanimously adopted the request to accept this agreement, and I would ask you, honourable Members, to do the same.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e21967	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e21988	Mr President. Federal Minister! This agreement is another mosaic for international networking in scientific and technical cooperation. As an important economic location in the centre of Europe, Austria is particularly suitable for launching new joint developments in science and research with international significance and recognition. From this point of view, this agreement should also be seen. The Federal Minister has already pointed out that, to date, joint work has been carried out only on the basis of individual initiative by individual scientists and institutes or at the level of universities and research institutions. This agreement also ensures the contractual framework for mobility costs accordingly. Article 3, which is at the heart of this agreement, refers specifically to measures. This is about the implementation of joint projects, the exchange of equipment and research materials, the exchange of scientists and experts, especially young researchers. It is about planning and conducting seminars together, and it is about sharing information and promoting scientific information networks. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Research and development, new technologies and innovations have an increasing impact on people's living and working conditions. They also largely determine the competitiveness, prosperity and the number and quality of jobs in the regions and countries. It should therefore be our common interest to give our agreement to this Convention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e22022	As the last speaker on this item on the agenda, Mr Buchmayr is speaking. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e22043	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! On the subject of scientific cooperation with the Russian Federation on the promotion of mobility: Similar contracts and agreements exist with very, very many countries. This is organized in Austria by the Austrian Exchange Service. There has been an agreement with the Russian Federation since 1997. The aim of the agreement is to intensify scientific cooperation by promoting the mobility of scientists. The costs of travel and residence are funded exclusively within the framework of bilateral scientific projects. The question has already been asked: Where and with whom does this mobility, this exchange take place? – If you look deeper, you will find some agreements, such as those between the FWF, the fund to promote scientific research, in Austria and the Russian Foundation for Basic Research. Annual calls for proposals for bilateral research projects and conferences will be carried out within the framework of these Funds. The joint projects have a maximum duration of three years. There have been cooperation agreements between the Academy of Sciences in Austria and the Russian Academy of Sciences since 1994. Russia is also a founding member of the International Institute for Applied System Analysis, based in Laxenburg. There is a program for young scientists each summer. There are also a number of cooperation agreements between Austrian universities and unfortunately God only one university, namely Lomonossov University in Moscow. Kepler University, the University of Salzburg in the fields of geography and geology and with the Faculty of Law and the University of Vienna. International scientific cooperation is becoming increasingly important. From this point of view, exchange and, of course, the mobility of young students, but also of scientists, are extremely important. This personal exchange, the unobstructed approach to project objectives, the understanding of other strategic ways of action, especially in scientific cooperation, in the technical field, in the international context, is an enormously important experience for all participants, who are always associated with personal enrichment. I would also like to say that Russia also brings some benefits to us. In the eastern countries and especially in Russia, very long, decades longer, basic research was conducted at a very high level. We, in the so-called West, in the Central European countries, had not been able to do so for a long time. In this context too, Austrian-Russian relations are very substantial. A compliment for the homepage on the project opportunities for students and young scientists – it is first-class! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e22091	No one has been reported in the word anymore. I therefore conclude the debate. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. We are now voting on the request of the Scientific Committee, the conclusion of the State Treaty in 1410 of the Supplements in accordance with Article 50(1). 1 Z 1 B-VG. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously accepted. [[19:46:49]] 11th@item: inlistbox Point Election of a replacement member to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e22135	We're coming to the 11th. Agenda item. On the side of the BZÖ Parliamentary Club, Mr. Christoph Hagen was appointed as a replacement member of Mrs. Martina Schenk. In the sense of § 66 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure I shall not vote with votes, but by raising the seats. On the other hand, is there any objection? - That's not the case. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the adoption of the electoral proposal which I have announced, to be a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. [[General condolences.]] In this way, the election of a substitute member has been carried out in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. The agenda is exhausted. [[19:47:49]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2012-01-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00140_d7e22198	I am still announcing that, at today's meeting, the self-employed applications were submitted 1807/A(E) to 1811/A. Questions 10318/J to 10363/J were also raised. The next meeting of the National Council is scheduled for Thursday, 19. January 2012, 9 a.m. The agenda will be delivered by the clubs. This meeting is closed.
