ParlaMint-AT_2012-09-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e12752	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen! I'll open the meeting. [[09:01:10]] Meeting of the ordinary meeting 2012/2013
ParlaMint-AT_2012-09-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e12777	The President of the Federal Republic of Germany, with a resolution of 29. In accordance with Article 28(2) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013, the Commission shall adopt implementing acts in accordance with Article 28(2) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013. 1 of the Federal Constitutional Act the National Council for the 4th. ==References====External links==* Official website This is the first time we have been able to reach agreement on this subject. The official protocols of 164. Meeting of 4 and 5. ==References====External links== Meeting of 5. ==References====External links==* Official website Meeting of 6. In July 2012, the Parliament's Directorate remained unanswered and undisputed. As prevented, MEPs Heinzl, Königsberger-Ludwig, Mag. Aubauer, Waller, Big Truck, Mag. Hakl, Doppler, singer and Dolinschek. [[09:06:10]] Absence of mandate and fishing
ParlaMint-AT_2012-09-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e12812	The Federal Electoral Authority has received a notice that Member Reinhold Lopatka has renounced his mandate and has been appointed to the National Council by Mr Jochen Pack instead. Since the election permit is already in place and the person mentioned is present in the house, I will immediately make his fishing observation. After reading the vow formula by the scribe, the new representative will have to do his fishing with the words “I promise”.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-09-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e12848	“They will be vowed unbreakable fidelity of the Republic of Austria, constant and full observation of the constitutional laws and all other laws and conscientious fulfilment of your obligations.”
ParlaMint-AT_2012-09-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e12870	I promise.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-09-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e12885	I warmly welcome the new Members in our midst. [[General condolences.]] [[09:07:12]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2012-09-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e12912	The Federal Chancellor has received the following letter: 'Dear Madam President! I have the honour to inform you that the President of the Federal Republic of Germany, with his resolution of 31 December, is now in the hands of the President of the Council. In August 2012, GZ S210.010/1-BEV/12, in accordance with Article 74(3) of the Federal Constitutional Act in conjunction with Article 78(2) of the Federal Constitutional Act Mr State Secretary Dr Wolfgang WALDNER with effectiveness 3. ==References====External links== At the same time, I am honoured to inform you that the President of the Federal Republic of Germany, with his resolution of 11. September 2012, GZ S210/10/2-BEV/12, in accordance with Article 70(1) of the Federal Constitution Act in conjunction with Article 78(2) of the Federal Constitution Act Mr Reinhold LOPATKA was appointed State Secretary and attached him to the Federal Minister for European and International Affairs for the Support of Management and Parliamentary Representation.” I take advantage of this opportunity to wish the outgoing Secretary of State all the best and the new Secretary of State much success in his work. I announce that this meeting will be transferred to ORF 2 to 1 p.m. and ORF III in full length. [[09:08:41]] Current hour
ParlaMint-AT_2012-09-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e12959	We arrive at the current hour with the theme: “More professionals, more security – Austria needs a professional army” First of all, Mr. Klubobmann has spoken to Dr. Cap. I give him the floor and draw attention to the fact that the speaking time is 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-09-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e12986	Madam President. High house! I believe that we have reached an interface of development not only, but above all, the Austrian federal army. There is already a long, if not decades of discussion about the tasks and the self-understanding of the federal army. There has been a reform commission which has still been used under Chancellor Schüssel. At the time, well-known personalities took part in this reform commission, and the first steps were actually taken at the time and the direction towards a professional army. And if I am still thinking today of the government declaration that the then Federal Chancellor Schüssel held here in 2000, then he actually said that the right way for Austria would be a professional army, a professional army. This discussion has existed before, this discussion is now in place, and now we have decided – why not; we have often and long enough discussed it here in the house – that we should use direct-democratic instruments; that we do not just talk about it, but also use it. And that's why there's now 20th. January this poll, combined with the commitment that it is politically binding and that the result will be implemented. Now, of course, there is a very broad debate on this, and I should like to say one thing here: I understand those who say that we want to defend the military service! because they are used to it or because they somehow think it is a more convenient way, but the question is also: What's better for Austria? What is better for the safety of Austria? [[Abg. Kickl: There the opinions in the SPÖ disperse!]] What is better for a profiled, effective disaster protection for the Austrians? And in the context of this, the question is: Do you want to care for the sick, in the care of the sick, in the transport of the sick, that there are professionals at work or those who are looking by only a few months?, knowing the shortcomings of it, the criticism of it and so on. [[Abg. Jury: unemployed!]] [[Abg. Kickl: The President of the Federal Republic...!]] By the way, there is only more across Europe, I believe, three countries – including Greece – that still have the obligation to do so. Most of Europe already has a professional and professional army, and for this reason. I can only recommend that you look at this, now there has been another analysis, a reference to the following – because always talk about disaster protection –: If only 6 percent of the recruits in the annual average are involved in disasters, this shows that this is a somewhat poor debate and that, especially in the area of disaster protection, the many volunteers in the Austrian fire brigades make a significant contribution, which should not be forgotten in the context and which we always thank when it comes to the issue of disaster protection. Nevertheless, more professionalism in the field of disaster protection is a very important point. How often have we had discussions in the main committee when it came to foreign operations, and when we have discussed whether our soldiers are really protected, whether they are prepared, whether they are provided with the necessary equipment and training when they are engaged abroad. That is to say, this question has already been raised at the time. Professionalism is crucial to the effectiveness of a commitment – even if it is a matter of doing border security work at our borders, even here, but especially when it is used abroad, so that there is no risk of lack of training, of lack of equipment. So this professionalism is a very crucial factor and many fathers and mothers want when their sons are in service abroad, they are not exposed to any risk, they are well trained and also have the necessary equipment. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Now the attempt is being made to discuss as little as possible the question of the national defence itself – clearly, because the editorial of Herbert Lackner in the “profile” actually says very clearly what the situation is, what the state of the situation is. Look, if most of the present servants are used for system maintenance, almost for their own self-serving, well, what sense does it have then to spend € 220 million a year for doing, for example, the following – and I can tell you that this is in the editorial in the “profile” -: “Of the 24,000 young men in the year 2010, nearly 6000 worked as drivers,” – they must have been driven in the circle all the time; so much need will not exist – “2600 in the guard,” – almost to guard themselves – “2100 as waiters”. [[Abg. Ing. Hofer: Who is responsible for this?]] [[Interim calls at the FPÖ]] I understand that one or the other says: I want to continue to have the military duty so that I continue to be served by a presenter at the casino. [[Abg. Ing. Hofer: Who is responsible for this?]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] - No, they're supposed to be for the professional! You've been for the professional before! The Freedom Party was once for the professional – no, no – and then you said sometime, now we are no longer for the professional army. [[New call for tender of the Federal Republic of Germany Ing. Hofer]] They were a little earlier than the ÖVP. It was only later, after Schüssel, that it was no longer for the professional army – for which reasons, they will then explain themselves – but you were for that before. - Good. I quote: It worked “2100 as a waiter in officer and sub-official casinos and 1400 as a cook.” – Thank you, so if I remember the kitchen there, then I must have had bad luck at the time, but maybe this has improved and changed. [[Abg. Kickl: They not only fall in the back of our athletes, but also our present servants!]] “Each 1000 were used as a company writer and mechanic. There were hundreds of masons, electricians, painters and installers.” Besides, you don't have to blame me. I was with the federal army, I can confirm that, I know. Look In the “profile” she only received the experience reports of individual editors when they were moved in, and it was only those of the editor, who was used outside of Vienna in a barracks and was obliged to guard the respective coal stove. He writes: “You sat with helmet, spade and a broom full of sand next to the unheated oven,” although it was warm autumn. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Stefan: Then we need a professional!]] [[Cheerfulness and further calls at the FPÖ.]] Such examples can be read and everyone can tell you what was really happening there. When did you serve? Have you also served, Secretary-General Kickl? You want to tell me a little bit about your time when you were with the federal army? Come on. Get out of here and tell me! Report! I'm just telling you. – So there are several examples for that. I'll tell you something. There are a number of experts – top-ranking experts! – and I am not talking about the one mission “In the Centre”, in which both Mr. Schmidseder, a senior officer of the Austrian Federal Army, was present, but also a representative of the University of the German Armed Forces reported how this change is going about, how it is very efficient and sustainable and how more professionalism is going to work. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] And something else: Also because of the threat pictures you do not need Rambos with a red band above the forehead. High-tech specialists are needed, professionals are needed! [[Abg. Kickl: Especially at the top of the resort!]] This is the decisive thing if one really wants to be competitive with the German army in the new threats of today's times. Look, in the "Presse" of the 14th century. ==References== In August, Erich Reiter – head of the department outside the Ministry of Defence – confirms how important it would be for security if this military duty were to be dropped if one could bring in the money that is being freed here for the professionalization of the federal army if young people simply did not lose their time in a useless system – the system of preservation of the Austrian federal army – but if they simply continued their education without being stopped. – That is, I believe, a command of the hour. And then you have been able to read in this article exactly what can be achieved here in terms of efficiency through this professionalism. In this regard, I tell you that you should really take this to heart and, in the interests of the Austrian people, consider and change the position you have taken today – you have taken from the opposition parties, but above all you, from the ÖVP. In addition, I tell you that it is of course important that this is a model – and this model has developed and will also represent the Minister. And then this is a great progress for Austria and will be beneficial. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] I've been looking in history a little bit – before I come to the end, because the lamp is already shining here: In 1999, the one who has now spoken out for the popular survey – we have called for this for a long time – is Erwin Pröll, in the “Press” of the 3rd century. In July 1999, there was no way the professional army could pass through an international security system. It's funny! What must have happened between 1999 and today that Erwin Pröll here suddenly represents a different opinion? [[New call for tender of the Federal Republic of Germany Kickl]] Platter, former member of the government, says in the "Presse" of 11. January 2011: The trend in Europe is towards the abolition of military service. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] I could continue the list of those from the ÖVP who are for the professional and professional army. Please explain to us what happened that you're not here anymore! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kößl.]] This may not be in the interest of Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-09-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e13187	For a preliminary opinion, Mr Mag. Darabos. I would draw attention to the fact that the speaking time should not exceed 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-09-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e13208	Madam President. High house! I quote: The development of the German army “is such that later developments, such as the suspension of compulsory military service and the conversion to a volunteer army, are possible.” – Report of the Federal Hero Reform Commission, ÖBH 2010. All the parties represented in this House, including your party, Dr. Fichtenbauer, have agreed to this point. [[Abg. Dr. Fichtenbauer:... the last point, after the fulfilment of the other obligations!]] That is to say, the Austrian Federal Hero Reform Commission, with a unanimous decision by all the parties represented in this House, has agreed to a change to the professional army with professional and voluntary components. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Kickl: Is that all that stands inside, or is there something else before?]] The Austrians deserved that we give our best in terms of safety. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Jarolim.]] Our stated goal must be to ensure the absolute maximum safety in Austria. As you all know – and I have already made this clear – I believe that we can only fulfil these tasks through a profound reform of the Austrian federal army by suspending the general military service and replacing it with a modern federal army, a professional army. I would like to predict that 21 out of 27 EU countries now have a professional army. [[Abg. Ing. Hofer: What do they pay? What's that cost?]] That can't be so wrong. We are only more in association with Greece, Cyprus and Estonia to mention three countries, and there are Finland and Denmark. [[Abg. Dr. Fichtenbauer: I didn't know we had a military pact with Greece!]] [[Further calls to the FPÖ]] I would like to respond to this call: The neutrality I stand at 100 percent, for example, has nothing to do with the question of professional or professional army at all – I am a defender of this neutrality. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] States such as Ireland and Sweden are alliance-free or neutral and also have a professional army. I would like to make this discussion more difficult – I am not sure if it will succeed, because I already have the feeling from the calls for action that an attempt is not being made at all – and I say the following about the security situation in Europe: Which scenarios endanger Austria, which scenarios endanger Europe in 2012? What is the basis of our security? – A completely different basis than a few years ago. The tank battle in Marchfeld is passé – I think we all agree on that – and the challenges are others. The Iron Curtain has been thank God, we were all for it. We are now in a united Europe, where I do not feel that we are being attacked by neighbouring countries, where there can be a military threat. The threats are quite different: international terrorism – you experience this every day, you only need to read the newspapers, then you know that this is a very massive threat, even for Austria – the spread of weapons of mass destruction, the failure of states – you see it every day, including the Arab Spring, on how it continues with the Arab Spring, you see that it is not so easy to bring in democratic structures there – cyber attacks, so computer-started attacks on states, institutions, threats of strategic important infrastructure – even in Austria – climate change, environmental damage, technical disasters such as nuclear accidents. All these are points that are undisputed within the coalition – and I would like to address that very consciously today. We, SPÖ and ÖVP, have unanimously adopted a security strategy in the Council of Ministers in March 2011, in which exactly these points, which I have now outlined to you, are recorded as the future threat scenarios for the Republic of Austria. What is in disagreement is the question of how to respond appropriately to these threats: either with a modern professional army, as I suggest, or with the outdated system of military service as proposed by the EIA. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] The population will have to decide on this in January 2013. From my point of view, one can only answer this question with one sentence: Safety needs professionals. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Kickl: Yes, especially at the top!]] I will also justify this: In general, three times a year we change out a good part of our staff, the basic defenses, and replace them with beginners. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Kickl.]] Two months of basic training, four months of work – and then the end. I ask you a question: Do you think that the police could do their job satisfactorily and wisely if they had to replace a portion of their staff every four months with police officers? [[Abg. Kickl: Not even a day in the army and speaks of “Profess”!]] [[Call to the ÖVP: That's not true, Minister!]] Can you imagine that after two months of training, a police student is investigating violent crimes, finding out about burglars? [[Abg. Kickl: Can you imagine that a defense minister wasn't with the German army?]] – That, quite rightly, cannot imagine anyone, at least in the population, because that is not feasible. [[Abg. May. Stefan: Do you know about this? Have you read about it?]] However, the Austrian Federal Army is currently built around this system. To say it clearly: We produce short-term soldiers on the running band who leave us again before they can be used properly. And this hamster wheel costs us, I also want to say, in the year € 300 million. €300 million! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] You must not misunderstand me, it is not about criticism of basic defence servants – they do their best within the possibilities they have, but they are also severely restricted due to the short training. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stefan.]] And the model, which the ÖVP has not yet presented, but which is curated there and there, also in Internet forums, would weaken, so to speak, because then the six-month service would be reduced to five months, then the training would be even more difficult to guarantee – just by the way. It also shows that we have a problem in the system. We have 60 percent system holders – system holders, sounds so technical, these are people who have nothing to do with the military operation, these are cooks, these are waiters, 1 300 cooks, 1 800 waiters per year, none or few pioneers. [[Call at the FPÖ: This is part of it!]] And now I'm asking you: Is this the contribution to the national defence for which we commit young men for six months and steal them six months of their lives? – I say no, out of deep conviction. [[Abg. May. Stefan: This is the case in every army! What army doesn't have a supplier?]] I'm just saying something. The recruits also go out to us. The development in the Austrian Federal Army and in the Republic is now such that we have more impotent and civilian servants than basic military servants. We lack 1 400 basic defenses for the performance of our tasks. And that is exactly what my reform is doing. I will call on you to make an effort and look at what it can look like in the future without this forced service. My model provides: 8 500 professional soldiers – less than now. My model provides: 7,000 time soldiers – more than now, young soldiers, who are ready for a certain period of time, volunteer to serve the Republic, and thus can also cover the tasks now performed by basic military servants. [[Abg. Kickl: Cheaper also!]] [[Abg. May. Stefan: What are they doing? Waiters?]] My model foresees – and this is a central element – 9 300 professional military soldiers, a demand that the military organizations that have raised the officer society for years. I wonder why this should be a problem now. [[Call the ÖVP: Because it's not possible!]] On the contrary, we have professional militia soldiers whose performance is financially paid off. This is a model with which we can also perform all the tasks that the Austrian Federal Army has to perform: first of all: National defense – very theoretical –; second: Civil protection – very real –; thirdly: Foreign employment – very important. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] With this system, we will also be able to guarantee what you all have decided here in the house to achieve ÖBH 2010, Austrian Federal Hero Reform 2010, namely a mobilising strength of 55 000 men. You, all the parties here in the house, have decided to halve the mobilization strength from 110 000 men to 55 000 men. I think this is right because the challenges are different than ten, 20, 30, 40 years ago. You've all decided together! I would ask you to remember this because this is a decision which this House has taken unanimously. My model guarantees that in the event of disaster, we can provide 12 500 soldiers for disaster protection. My model guarantees that we can guarantee at least 1 100 soldiers for foreign use. We put best trained top forces into operation, and for example we can also compare ourselves with the National Guard of the USA who have a similar system, and I mean you don't need to shy this comparison. Finally, I would like to say: ==References== Januaryen a direction decision before, it is about the orientation of the Austrian federal army in particular and about Austrian security policy in general. I will use the next few months to create a majority of the model I have proposed. [[Abg. Kickl: It's useless! You can motify the entire ring road with your posters!]] I advertise for a modern army of professional soldiers, because I am convinced that with this model we can best meet the challenges of the future. 21 out of 27 states already have this system, that can't be wrong. I believe that we are also called on in Austria to change here to a professional team in order to ensure security for Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-09-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e13500	I draw attention to the fact that the speaking time of all other participants at the current hour according to § 97a Abs. 6 of the Rules of Procedure shall not exceed 5 minutes. First of all, Mr Prehauser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-09-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e13525	Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! I have never looked forward to a speech as much as today, for a very specific reason: [[Ironic cheerfulness at ÖVP and FPÖ]] The Federal Minister has said several times, as factually as possible, about such an essential question as the German army to talk about the design of the army in the future. [[Abg. Grosz: Maybe the chef says something about it too!]] I am one of those who have never had to change their mind to this day. I will also stay there, no question at all – I will try to explain this – and still try to support the Minister in the implementation, in his work. If politics entrusts someone with an office, then the person concerned should also say what the situation looks like, what possibilities there are for further development. We have all felt within the framework of the 2010 German Parliamentary Reform Commission that there is much to be reformed, to change, but there are many proposals for solutions – there is only evidence that 1 percent of GDP should be the basis for the financing of the army. However, this was determined at a time when we could not know how the economic situation is developing across Europe. And today we are in the situation that we not only have an economic recession, we have little money at our disposal, but we also have very, very expensive interception hunters, which greatly limit the financial resources for the current day-to-day operation of the federal army. We have been training the Minister of State. The majority here in this House has stood side by side, but the reduction of three planes has shown the world down for many. Today we know that if we had the three planes more, we couldn't go through any more exercises because the funds for it were missing. At the same time, the government has made sure that the aircraft cannot be sold – without certain conditions. Mr. Klubobmann Cap, the following, as it is a matter of reassurance: It has not been more convenient for the basic soldiers either, and the soldiers have never had it more comfortable, as the order comes from politics! We are responsible for what they have to do and what they do not. [[Demonstrative applause with ÖVP, FPÖ and BZÖ.]] And if there are emptyings, we are responsible! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grosz.]] Another, extensive titulation, namely: We need professionals in disaster situations and no “diletants” – between quotation marks!, is to be rejected. There has been so much help in history that these people do not deserve to be called non-professional in retrospect. [[Demonstrative applause with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The collapse of the army's present system has begun with the further reduction of military service from eight months to six months. It was then – it was then a election-gag – in 2006 that the exercise obligations for the militia were lifted without at the same time creating alternatives. And therefore, Federal Minister Darabos is now forced to implement what was thought to be done. And this, ladies and gentlemen, is not an easy task: no money, expensive flyers and, of course, modernisation in Europe – that is not a question. If a minister takes up an office, he has the task of telling the Republic how to lead the office forward. His proposal is a professional force – in the points he wants to make with it, he does not differ at all from what the ÖVP wants to do, only access is a different one: with professionals or with military officers. Ladies and gentlemen, I am one of those who see this a little different due to history. I think we can do it even if it won't be easy in the transition period. What will happen to those who are not needed, who will guarantee them recruitment? Who cares? Who are the soldiers? For example, my concern is who guarantees me that when 5,000 people apply for 200 posts, the best will be selected? [[Abg. Strache: The professional at the top of the army!]] That's my problem! What about the time soldiers we need to have the militia in the following time? Are we making it possible to create adequate professional opportunities for them politically? – If we don't work together, we won't succeed. A comment on the social service: Minister Hundstorfer has presented a programme that I trust a lot, it is making me feel less concerned today. My wish is to try together, for example, to sell part of the infrastructure, as we ourselves have decided, in order to create financial resources for the Minister. If we don't stand in front of every barracks, we won't say: Not this one! [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] If we do so, we can be excited to see what the Minister will achieve for us in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-09-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e13617	Mr Maij-Weggen. — (NL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the honourable Member for his excellent report. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-09-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e13638	Madam President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen of the House! Estimated listeners in front of the TV screens! We have just heard how the SPÖ imagines its German army in the future – and this is a completely different idea from what we imagine from the Austrian People's Party under a reformed federal army. We want an army out of the people for the people. We want to further develop military service. We want to guarantee disaster protection. And we want to continue to provide civil service because the achievement of social policy tasks is more necessary than ever. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] High house! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) In view of what Mr Cap and the Federal Minister have said, as they see today's soldiers, I am quite sad. I say: We have a motivated, still motivated professional army. We still have motivated groundmen, 24 000 who enter each year, voluntarily, and confess to the service of the weapon. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] And we have 14 000 civil servants who do decent work in preparation for their voluntary work afterwards. A task that Austria needs, a task to which we confess, and a task, Mr. Federal Minister, who unfortunately did not develop further, although we have stated in the Coalition Agreement that we are further developing this obligation that we continue to develop the Austrian federal army, that we abolish system maintenance. – We have agreed to that, but you have unfortunately not implemented the implementation! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bitch.]] That is why we now need to convince the Austrians of our way. ==References== They are supposed to decide whether the pictures we have in our head will be implemented. My picture is that of 46 000 young recruits, 24 000 will opt for military service, that is, be trained properly on the weapon, get properly used in the border area, provide proper disaster protection. And then the picture of 2002, when 13 800 soldiers were in service tirelessly for nine weeks, when Austria was “delivered”. That was 70 percent recruitment, together with their best-trained cadre staff. We must be grateful to these people for having made themselves available to Austria! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Civil service is also always being smiled. Civil service is an essential task as a military service. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] And this civil service is in order to ensure that many needy people are cared for every day in old homes, that the Red Cross works and is on time when people need protection and help. We need civil service to do this! And we want to further develop civil service because we want the Office to continue in Austria. 44 percent of Austrians work volunteering. The basis for this honorary office is created in civil service and in the Austrian federal army. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The Federal Minister explained that according to his calculations, a professional army is at least as expensive or – in this case – cheap as the current Austrian federal army. All the countries that have changed have shown us that it costs at least twice and a smaller army is just more expensive. We don't want to. We want an Austrian federal army to be further developed on the basis of the reformed Austrian federal army. Ladies and gentlemen! Why should we start from a course that has proved to be extremely good for a small, neutral state like Austria for decades? The mixing system of professional soldiers, volunteers, militias and ground military workers works. The German army manages all its personnel-intensive operations such as internal disaster protection, assistance in the eastern border area, the foreign mission from the Western Balkans to the Golan. Mr. Federal Minister, you said that a few months ago, when you said that this was still “meshed in stone”. – But today, Minister of State, you are on a different path. Be around. You, Federal Minister Darabos, feel committed to the mayor of Vienna – but we feel committed to Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-09-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e13735	Mr Klubobmann Strache is now speaking. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-09-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e13757	Madam President. Mr. Minister of Defence! Ladies and gentlemen! It was interesting when the clubman of SPÖ came out today and referred to his political model bowl. That was very interesting. I wonder why you do not see Mr Heinz Fischer as an example and why you do not think of your former great social democrat, Bruno Kreisky, who rightly said: So if we want to learn from our history, we have to stand for an army of general military service, in which all social groups are represented. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] But these were not your words, Mr. Klubobmann Cap, but those were the words of Bruno Kreisky. And Bruno Kreisky would rotate in the grave in the truest sense of the word today. [[Abg. Krainer: That was a different world at the time!]] Bruno Kreisky’s own body – like so many social democrats – has learned what ultimately caused a professional army and how a professional army has been abused for political purposes. And that was also the reason why social democracy used to be – rightly so! – represented the basic position of the general military service and did not go away from it. Today, however, you are leaving it, and that is why many social democrats in Austria are turning away from you. You should stick to the President-in-Office of the Federal Republic of Germany Heinz Fischer on this question, you should stick to the Chief of Staff of Entacher and take history very seriously on this issue too! So if I listen to the speeches that have already been made today, also from the SPÖ, then you hear many, many excuses. We know that in 2010, the mayor of Vienna, Mr. Michael Häupl, believed that with this election cry he would tear something towards the abolition of military duty. We saw that he didn't succeed. On the contrary! The people didn't honor this campaign struggle at the time. I am convinced that the vast majority do not want a mercenary army. As it is said today again and again how many NATO countries have already changed to a professional army, say Söldnerarmee, I would like to say: Yes, please, let's not take an example of NATO countries! Austria is neutral! Let us take an example of Switzerland, which is neutral and ultimately rightly guarantees a People's Army with a general military obligation! [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] We should take an example of this! We hear again and again: More professionals, a professional army with more professionals! – If I look at all the suggestions, I have to say that we have more professionals in the current army today than you have planned. So if you're talking about more professionals, let's start back there! [[The speaker points towards the government bank.]] We need a professional as Minister of Defense, but not an objector. That's where it starts with the professionals. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It was absurd from the beginning to use someone as a defense minister who has no idea. That's like making a vegetarian the Director-General of a meat factory. That can't work! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It's like I'm making a non-swimmer president of the lifeguard association. That can't work, and it's absurd. But that is exactly what we have been suffering for some time now, and this must also be done by the federal army; for who is responsible for the current development in the federal army and for the conditions you described, and who is responsible for it? We all agree on at least one point, namely that there must be some improvement in the German army, that reforms need to be reformed, that it needs better training and that training times are too short. Better training would be important in order to ensure appropriate efficiency – well, no question! The fact is: With 16 000 professional soldiers, which we have today, we are better placed than in the future with 8 500 professional soldiers, as Mr Darabos intends, even if we have an additional 25,000 groundmen, a good mixing system in the militia, so that we are really equipped if disasters or crises occur and we have a corresponding manpower, as in the last flood disaster in Lower Austria, and in addition 14 000 civilians. These must only be ensured if the obligation to do so is maintained. In no other way can we ensure this system for the Blue Light Organisations, for the rescue services. And it is therefore also socially irresponsible to abolish compulsory military service. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] It is good for a society as a whole if you give something back in time for this company to return and this society provides a service. And that's where we have a clear position. To conclude: It's like a fire protection insurance. We all hope that it never burns – but once it burns, we are glad and grateful that we have such a structure that can help our population. And finally, we should stop being so irresponsible as to endanger our structures and our security and also to put our neutrality at risk! We don't want to go to NATO like you. We want to remain neutral, remain independent and ensure a free Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-09-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e13866	Mr Pilz, Member of the Commission. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating Mr Pilz on his - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-09-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e13888	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I regret that, for about a year, Austrian security policy has come to terms with purely party-political tactics. If you had been the Austrian People's Party as a Civil Service Party a year or two ago, the Freedom Party as a security party in the spirit of Bruno Kreisky, the Social Democratic Party as the party that says: Only professional soldiers can really do something against the enemy!, can imagine? That's completely absurd! This has nothing to do with the history of these parties. If one moves, the other claims exactly the opposite and says: I've always said that! I'll tell you: We will still experience the day when the ÖVP is again for the abolition of military service and the SPÖ for the maintenance of military service. I look briefly into the future: ==References== Luckily, there is a popular survey in January, because the current Federal Government has shown that people usually choose much more reasonable from education policy to security policy than the Federal Government and its representatives. If this People's Survey is going to be positive – I hope – we will abolish the obligation to do so and then we will negotiate with each other, then at least Members and perhaps members of the Government of the SPÖ will come to us and say: Yes, now we are talking to each other, now we are negotiating and now we are making legislative changes, now we are making constitutional changes and now we are making a new model. We will remind you that we will take you on 19th. ==References== We will remind you that we will give you the 19th anniversary. In this plenary session of the National Council on September 2012 they said: If you are dealing with the federal constitution, if you are dealing with our own decisions, if you are dealing with the control law of the National Council and with the control obligation of the National Council as you intend today, then we will have a very difficult time talking to each other objectively! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: Yes!]] This morning – and I see this in this context – I have received a planned request from the government parties, which proposes a deadline for the investigation committee and is obviously to be decided today, with 16. It is expected to be turned off this year. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Sourry!]] We should be dictated that we should have four themes of evidence in four and a half days. We should be told that the Federal Chancellor must not appear in this House on the Committee of Inquiry. [[Congratulation with greens, FPÖ and BZÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: Keepers!]] This is a dictatorship of the majority of governments against a unanimous decision by the National Council on the establishment of an investigative committee! While there is still a tactic in the security policy, which cannot defend itself, the National Council has been in an exceptional situation since early today, in which government fractions apply – and it is here that I have been present in writing by Pendl and Amon – in accordance with § 42 para. 2 GoG, this is the determination of reassurance. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Shame!]] Mr Pendl and Mr Amon have put an ultimatum to us this morning – if I say "us", then the three opposition parties: Either she agrees unanimously so that we can change the evidence decision, or we can turn it off! – This is a very clear ultimatum. And I urge your personal responsibility, Mr Pendl, Mr Amon, and all the other Members of the Government. This is an attack on parliamentary democracy. We cannot accept that in this form – and we will not accept it! [[Congratulation with greens, FPÖ and BZÖ.]] [[The Green Members rise from their seats and keep several posters up to date.]] If we meet today at 10 a.m. for a group leader meeting, then not to negotiate your ultimatum, but to talk about how we can work together after the resignation of Gabi Moser, who has done everything to make the investigation committee work again, fulfill our unanimous mission to clarify corruption and combat corruption by this House. If you move in and if you come back to your mind, Mr Pendl and Mr Amon, and if you are willing to let this House work and let the Examining Committee work, then we also have an objective basis to talk about reforms from compulsory military duty to education policy. Until then, we have to talk about whether Parliament can work under the dictatorship of the government groups at all. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-09-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e13997	Mr Klubobmann Bucher. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-09-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e14019	Madam President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Because of the first speeches, one already gets a good impression of the state of the Republic. But even if you look at today's agenda, you can see that this federal government is literally at the end of the day, at the hunger of the ideas, and basically is not able to make government policy. [[BZÖ and Abg. Street@item incidence access is by owner only]] There are no legislative initiatives, there are no measures by the Federal Government. After two months of summer vacation, there is now an absolute standstill in Austria. The only thing that keeps red and black together is the interest in preventing the investigation of all the shortcomings of the past months and years and in turning off the investigation committee. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] This is the only thing that keeps you together, and the only interest you have – and this, ladies and gentlemen, in view of the fact that we are facing very difficult months with regard to European development, as far as the euro is concerned, as far as the situation of the economy is concerned with the development of unemployment and employment. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, we from BZÖ say: Enough sleep! Finally, go to work and do what you are paid for, ladies and gentlemen of Red and Black, namely to govern the country and take measures to counter the difficult economic developments of the future! [[OBJECTIVES]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: Right!]] Mr Cap, one thing is clear: ==References== In August 2001, you told the “Wiener Zeitung” that the majority of SPÖs wanted to adhere to the military obligation, with the argument that it is not budgetaryly manageable to switch from military duty to a professional. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: I've always been a professional!]] In 2001, ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ, we had a zero deficit compared to today. Today, due to the debt policy you have been running with the EIA for years, we have become a poor country. That should be said to you once too. And you have also given of yourself time and again that the changeover to a professional army at the same time means a NATO accession. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, this does not show a clear overview and a clear perspective. In fact, this military debate is a mere distraction of red and black, in order to cover up that you are unable to solve the problems at European level and to deal with homework in Austria. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] That is the only political reason and the explanation. They rule by the reality of life of the people in our country, my dear ladies and gentlemen of red and black. They are not in a position to actually understand what it is all about. This compulsory debate is one that we already know from pre-election times, such as Vienna-Wahl 2010. That's where you dug this topic. Well, Spindelegger has been presented by Pröll, because Pröll said he needs a federal policy theme because he is going to vote next spring. In 2010 – let’s remember! – there was no military debate, but red and black argued at the time – two years ago! – we need an overall concept for Austria, a security doctor who clearly shows us where the defence policy of Austria and Europe should go in the future. Now, after a year and a half, you are again faced with this transfer without a security doctor, without an overall concept and leave the simple question to vote on: Do we need a military duty, yes or no? If it is really serious to you and if you, Minister of Defence, really have a real interest in regulating security policy in our country for all the future or in taking part in the next few years, we are working on a security doctor! This is the central requirement of the BZÖ. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] It would also address the question of how we deal with civil service, how we deal with civil protection, how we deal with neutrality and a possible European alliance system. These are the central questions. ==References====External links== It's not for the vote. That's where you leave the population completely in doubt. Ladies and gentlemen! The BZÖ confesses itself to a new security doctor. We are the only political force that has clear concepts of what the security of Austria should look like in the future. I now present a brochure to you, Minister of State, so that you can have at least one action guide.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-09-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e14111	Mrs Mag. Lapp is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-09-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e14133	Madam President. Mr. Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! High House, we're in 21. In the 19th century, the state defense and the Austrian federal army are to be reorientated. We are facing a major change. This makes it clear that many emotions, feelings, accusations come to the table. The Austrians are called on to consider and weigh all arguments and then make a decision. We sit in the 21st place. In the 19th century, the step that men and women can choose voluntarily, they go to the state defense, they perform the service with the weapon or a social year. And that's in the 21st century. ==References====External links== [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Voluntaryness brings great commitment, voluntaryness brings good opportunities for training, and voluntaryness is an important point that leads the Austrian federal army to take pride in the 21st century. ==References====External links== The recruits are replaced by professional time soldiers and military soldiers. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stefan.]] This results in a higher level of training, and this means that the teams, the comrades, are better involved in their deployments, that they bring more experience and that they can also be alerted faster and operate efficiently. [[Abg. Kickl: And it's cheaper too!]] An important question that concerns many Austrians is: Who helps with disasters, who provides protection from disasters? – It is exactly the same system as we now have: In line with the voluntary fire brigades and the numerous forces involved in disasters, there is a good interaction with professionals. That means: In the event of disasters, willingness to use shall be ensured and support and assistance ensured. However, there are also disasters that can stand at the door, such as terrorism, attacks or cyber war. Such incidents can only be met efficiently by professionals. The Austrian federal army is already making such efforts, with further support. Professional training and timely use that professionals can work on the ground are important points to ensure security and national defence in our country into 21. ==References== Another important advantage is the offer of the social year: Many Austrians will remember that conservative factions have always been spoken by “Druckebergers” on the part of civil servants. It was always said that they do not want to do the service with the weapon and actually just press themselves. There was a Confession Commission. In 2010, the Civil Service Act was changed here in the house, because the then Federal Minister Fekter found that there were major problems with the civil service organisations. Abuse of the disease has led to the introduction of disciplinary measures. – The fact that civil servants are now presented as the only saviors in the social and health system, ladies and gentlemen, is nonsense and really cockies! [[It was in favour of the SPÖ and the BZÖ representatives.]] The social year ensures that men and women aged 18 and over can become active in the social and health sector for one year and then can decide whether they are continuing training and want to continue to work in this sector, in the social and health field, which needs a lot of dedicated and motivated workers in the coming decades. This approach is another important quantum leap towards promoting social cohesion in our country. Come to 21. C.E., ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-09-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e14192	Mr Wöginger has now come to the fore. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-09-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e14214	Madam President. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, especially at home in front of the TV screens! I start with a quote: ‘One year ago, the general military obligation was still ‘meshed in stone’. A stone does not consist of butter.” – This is a quote from the chief commander of the German army, Federal President Dr. Heinz Fischer, of the 17th century. January 2011. On the same day, the “Small Newspaper ” reported: “Fisher President warns that a professional army will cost more or less.” Ladies and gentlemen, yes, I am also of this opinion. The general obligation of military service, civil service and civil protection is a cornerstone of security in our country. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP as well as with the representatives of the FPÖ.]] It is about internal security, it is about external security, but it is above all about social security. The general obligation to do so is above all a matter of social policy. If military service fails, there will be no civil service either. That means: If you're for a professional, you'll kill the civil service. Civil service in Austria, ladies and gentlemen, is a success story and an indispensable pillar in our social and health system. Each year, 14 000 young people make a very important contribution in the rescue sector, in hospitals and nursing homes, as well as in the aid of the disabled, to agriculture. For me and also for many other Austrians, the question is: Why create a very well-functioning system without having a suitable replacement model for it? A paid voluntary social year is certainly not an alternative to civil service, and with “voluntary”, ladies and gentlemen, this has nothing to do at all! 1 386 € gross per month is the proposal. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP as well as with the representatives of the FPÖ.]] – This is a low-cost job, ladies and gentlemen, and this also undermines collective agreements! But above all, this is a blow to the face of the ten thousand volunteer and volunteer employees who work free of charge and voluntarily with the various organizations! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP as well as with the representatives of the FPÖ.]] This proposal, which is on the table here, is immense: A voluntary social year as a paid job is a contradiction in itself, and we strongly reject it! An example: What is to be thought of as an volunteer rescuer at the Red Cross, ladies and gentlemen, if a staff member is sitting next to him in the deployment car who is paid €1,386 a month for it? – This is the beginning of the end of voluntary work and of the honorary ministry. This will not work in practice, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP as well as with the representatives of the FPÖ.]] The second open question has not yet been answered: Who is reporting and how many are volunteering for this social year? – We do not need 6,000 people, but we need 9 000 people if we are to replace the 14 000 civilians. What about, ladies and gentlemen, if only 3 000 report? What if the enough number of people is not available? – In this case, we are told that we are hoping for a high number of unemployed people, so that we can put enough help from the unemployment group. – However, this is not an alternative to civil service, but it is a danger to our social system! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP as well as with the representatives of the FPÖ.]] As an employee of the Red Cross, I also inquired with my friends and colleagues in Bavaria, because it is also put into play by the Federal Volunteer Service. Do you know what happens in Bavaria at the Red Cross? – In the past there used to be 1,700 civilians. Now it has been reduced to 600 federal volunteers, because only this number is financed. The Red Cross of Bavaria clearly says: We had to stop the transport of disabled people, there are waiting periods of two to three hours for the transport of sick people. I'm asking You are quite open, ladies and gentlemen: Is that what you want? Do you want the rescue weights to come no longer in ten minutes, but only in half an hour or in a three-quarters hour? [[Abg. Street: Look at the SPÖ, not your own party!]] Do you want people to sit and wait for hours? – Ladies and gentlemen! This is irresponsible, and this is a danger to our well-functioning social and health system. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP as well as with the representatives of the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, one word on disaster protection. Voluntary fire brigades make an indispensable contribution to disaster relief. But we all know that long-term disasters such as after flood 2002 – Mr. Gaßner from Schwerberg – you need to know! – can only be achieved with the use of the federal army and the recruits. This too must be mentioned at this point. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We want the highest possible safety for people in Austria. We stand for a reformed military service, for the maintenance of civil service and, of course, for civil protection.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-09-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e14308	Mr Fichtenbauer. — (NL) Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-09-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e14330	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! I think the debate is excellent and I also thank the SPÖ for inducing it. At least this offers a good opportunity to sharpen one's personal virtues, namely the virtue of serenity, that one does not fall apart from anger when one has to listen to the words of the abolishers. Secondly, the virtue of attention is also put to the test, because it puts me in the strange role - we say - of following the words of Mr Pilz and of acclaiming them positively, but also of the statements made by Mr Prehauser. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Gaßner.]] But it is also interesting to hear and hold on to what level by the Federal Minister things which are warranted with duty, effort and, as I would like to say, with dignity and honor. Let's remember: The Austrian Olympic participants have not won any medals, with only very narrow differences between victory and non-winning at the level of the Olympic participants in the area. The Federal Minister, however, called them Olympic Tourists, who do not bring anything together. - Nice. [[Abg. Kickl: This is huge!]] Next point. The German Federal Minister of Justice calls the military service leaders, the military officers and the groundmen, a participant in a completely pointless undertaking, a mega-insanity participant. I can already say that, apart from the people who develop career ideas, this is a reason for people who are serious to take, to be enraged. I refer to the indisputably excellent commanding officer, Lieutenant General Höfler, chief of the armed forces command, who, in view of these statements of the Federal Minister, cannot help but stand before the soldiers. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] It is understandable that he pleads for a reassurance and calls the statements of Mr Darabos's Minister of Defense as mega-senseless, sad and unresponsible. Mr. Federal Minister of State Defense, you have been designated as the supreme body in a highly relevant position. They have been appointed for the Republic's instrument of sovereignty, the Austrian army, acting on the basis of the general obligation of military service in accordance with the given constitutional situation, and have the best way to carry out your service in the light of the Constitution to which you are promised. Therefore, it is totally unacceptable that you will be confused with number players, even with the help of the media influences that you have to offer, which may become cabaret program at mathematical institutes, but cannot be the subject of a serious consideration, It is simply false if They quote the final report of the Federal Hero-Reform Commission as if it were an order for the abolition of the military obligation. The final point of these recommendations is as follows: Only after completion and implementation of all previous 15, 25 or 30 – I do not know externally – recommendations can finally be considered the change towards the profession or other army. So they are drawing on a construction of falsehoods, inaccuracies, and false representations! [[Federal Minister Mag. Darabos: I brought a literal quote!]] For example, Mr. Federal Minister, do not say that a study by the Technical University of Chemnitz, which focuses on the military leaders, their evaluation and the realignment of the Bundeswehr, is a devastating criticism. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] Final sentence: All the examples used in the direction of the conversion of military service to Europe concern NATO armies with a double budget approach and those with the Austrian neutrality, which can only take an example of Switzerland, do not have the least to do.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-09-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e14398	Now comes Mr Mag. Steinhauser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-09-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e14419	Ladies and gentlemen! The vote in January could have been a simple question on the subject, which could have been answered by every citizen, namely what we have been debating for years: Are you for military service or are you opposed to military service? Yes or no? Instead, one has unnecessarily complicated this and asks a question in which two models are voted in the background, which are not on the electoral paper and which are constantly changing. The model of the ÖVP was described by Mr Slickovits, and I listened closely. This is today: We want a further developed federal army based on a reformed federal army! – This is a literal quote! [[Rejoicing with the greens.]] – The Austrians have to vote on this! On the other hand, there is a Minister of Defense who changes the numbers daily. No one knows if he's voting on what's going to come out at the end. Second point, Mr Darabos: Unfortunately, you have lost the fight for the question! How can you allow the positive term “civil service” to stand on the part of the military advocates?- Oh, my God! You know that there is a vote on civil service and not one on military service. And on the other hand, you can use the appeal word “professional army. ” This is a unique “performance ”! You know exactly that we are now voting on something quite different than on the obligation to do so. Ladies and gentlemen, only the debate on the question shows the bankruptcy of the advocates of military service. I have listened exactly to the arguments made today. It was about civil service once. I remember that the same party that today holds up civil service, namely the ÖVP, ridiculed the civilians as a blackmailer 20 or 30 years ago. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenecker: Exactly!]] Today is your central argument. You have not made a military argument, but you have only made civil service. That's fact. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] You have no other argument than civil service! Mr Wöginger. — (NL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr Wöginger, for a voluntary social year. Talk to volunteers, you are active in this field! volunteering because they want to serve society because they enjoy the work. They will also do so in the future, because there are young men or young women who complete a voluntary social year. The second argument of the military advocates is the protection of disasters. But this is not a primary military task either. You didn't bring military arguments. The only thing that comes in connection with the military area is the warning of a mercenary force. I suspect your brochures will read about the SJ brochures of my colleague Cap in the 1980s. In the end, you all won, because you have already represented every position, you have to benefit from it! I am just waiting for the ÖVP to warn that a professional army could lead to the repetition of the events of 1934, when the Christian socialists were known to have instrumentalized the professional army for a coup. This is the last argument you have not exhausted, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Strache: That has already been brought!]] But, in reality, it's all about something completely different: It's a sham vote. SPÖ and ÖVP have set themselves a common goal: They want to change the political agenda. On the political agenda, in the last two years, the corruption scandals of ÖVP and FPK have been self-indebted on the one hand and on the other side the ad affair of the Federal Chancellor or the Social Democratic Party on the other. And at some point, it was obvious that they sat down and said: That must be done now! We're changing the agenda! And what is better than allowing citizens to vote on something that may not come anyway? Let's take a look at this! I find it remarkable that today 90 percent of Austrian politics is on the run: In Carinthia, the FPK is on the run from the country day and on the run from voters. In Vienna, SPÖ and ÖVP are on the run from the Investigation Committee and also from voters. [[Abg. Kickl: What is the green position to the German army?]] The Federal Chancellor is on the run, but with him I'm not sure if I'm not doing him wrong. He has announced that he would like to say in the Investigation Committee that he has only one problem – ladies and gentlemen, SPÖ Chairman and Chancellor Faymann has a problem –: He'd like to make a statement, but there's a turf mayor named Otto Pendl, and this one forbids him. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This is, of course, a big problem for the SPÖ chairman and Federal Chancellor! Clearly, the power conditions in the SPÖ are such that the Trumauer mayor Otto Pendlihn does not allow it to be declared. The investigation committee must therefore end. But, ladies and gentlemen, you can still make three referendums, you can still put five issues on the agenda, you can be sure we won't let you out! [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] All the things that will not be clarified will be the topic of the election campaign. We'll remind you. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-09-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e14527	Next speaker: Mr Scheibner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-09-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e14548	Ladies and gentlemen! It is sometimes a bit difficult to hold this debate with the mutual arguments, because one thing is forgotten: What's the whole thing for? What are we discussing the question of the military system for? What are we discussing a structure of the federal army for? Is the purpose of having a military duty now, yes/no? Is the self-evident that we have a civil service, yes/no? – I don’t think so, because according to our federal constitution, there is an order to the Austrian federal army. This task is enshrined in the Austrian federal constitution, and we must subordinate everything else to this task. Neither a professional nor military service are self-evident, but means for the purpose, means to achieve the objectives we define to the Austrian Federal Army and to the other security organizations. It's missing. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I remind you that we have had such discussions several times and have all agreed on this – a year and a half ago, I believe – that we are thinking about these tasks. For me personally, Federal Minister – you know – it was not necessary to adopt a completely new security doctor. We have one from 2001, which could have been adapted. But the government parties said: No, we want to write a new one. There was then a government decision, this decision has come here to the House. We have set up a subcommittee and worked very concentrated in this subcommittee for many hours. I had the impression that all the have been wanting to have also really a result. That would have been the prerequisite for all that is now being followed. But this sub-committee, like many others, has gone through the sand, sluggished, no longer recognizable. And suddenly it comes back to this old military-system debate. So you disagree with yourself. First of all, you're right to say: We need to re-write the doctrine so that we know the tasks and then think about everything else! Now you apparently don't agree on the doctrine in the government, now the other one comes again. If Mr Cap says that this is a good time for an instrument of direct democracy, it is theoretically correct that the people should also be involved in important decision-making processes, but not as excuses and substitutes for the fact that the elected representatives cannot agree on a common line. This is an abuse of an instrument of direct democracy. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] It seems to me like this – an example –: You create a vehicle and ask the question: Are we buying a truck or a bus? But what you want to do with the vehicle, you only say after that, whether it is goods or whether it should transport people. Before that, you're supposed to decide on the car type. – This is the wrong way, ladies and gentlemen! The question is – I give my previous speaker the right to: What's next? What if – as the People's Party wishes – the decision for military service goes out? What is it then? Will everything stay the way it is now? You have said that this system is so great, and you point out arguments that are simply wrong. I say quite honestly to you, of course, it is possible to continue to equip and equip the Austrian federal army with a general obligation to do so, but certainly not with this obligation! The Minister is right. We make up people for six months and then send them home, and of these people who are trained, only one third are used for real military tasks, all others contribute to system preservation. So the system gets itself through ground defenses. – That is not efficient and not reasonable! They addressed the flood in 2002. – This can no longer be done with today’s structure, which was done at the time. They lead the civil service. – According to the Constitution, ladies and gentlemen, civil service is a military service. You shouldn't forget that. There are many tasks that are meaningful and important, but not all. No one can explain to me that in 2006 6 000 civilians were found out and the social system was not collapsed, while 13 000 were needed today. But the time is, unfortunately, too short to do all that. The other side, Mr. Defence Minister: a professional. – If we turn from today to tomorrow to a professional force, without conditions, without incentive systems, without even taking action in the public service, a modern service law, for example, or employment criteria for other areas such as the police, by creating transition opportunities, this will be very difficult, it will be very complicated. From my point of view, a professional army or a volunteer army with a military component is only possible if one admits to the Austrian Alliance membership and to the common security policy. One without the other is difficult. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] That is the problem, ladies and gentlemen. We hope that the next few weeks will be used – not as we have today: a mutual hack under party policy abuse of security policy – the population to allow for genuinely objective information, because this responsibility of the people, which you are responsible for, if the decision was wrong, is not responsible for representative democracy and for elected Members.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-09-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e14648	Mr Ing. Lugar is spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-09-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e14669	Madam President. High house! In my view, the entire military debate is a reflection of government work. You first have to look into the past to see what's going on here. [[Abg. Rädler: Say Stronach!]] Dr. Schüssel von der ÖVP – which you probably still know, your former Federal Chancellor – called for the professional army and the abolition of military service in 2002. There was an ÖVP line until recently. That's reasonable, too. Mr Schüssel is not the stupidest in your series, he already knew at that time why he asked for it. Back then, as Mr. Dr. If this has been demanded, the SPÖ was opposed, the SPÖ has said that it is ground in stone, that cannot be, we need the general obligation to do so. Suddenly the leaf turned, Dr. Häupl in Vienna suddenly saw it differently. What's going on? – The ÖVP does not say: Yes, we have been in favour of abolishing general military service for years, yes, we have been for a professional army for years, let's do this together! That would have been possible. It would have been possible for the ÖVP to say: Okay, the SPÖ finally understood, we're making a professional! No, but what happens? – Because the SPÖ suddenly wanted it, ÖVP said: No, not with us! We've wanted to do this for more than a decade, but because the SPÖ wants it now, we don't do it. That is the problem in this government. Hardly anyone says something that is reasonable, that is good, that we need, but that has not come to mind or that does not fit into the concept, is blocked. That's exactly what we're experiencing today. We are experiencing today that a good, reasonable thing, such as the creation of a professional force and the abolition of military service, will not be implemented because the government parties want to put each other on a haxl. That's what it's all about. Why did Mr. Schussel ask the ÖVP to do that at the time? – He already realized at that time that the general obligation to military service no longer makes sense. She once made sense. It was useful when one had to assume that there will be large tank battles in Europe, that is, at a time when many people had to be put up in a short time in order to be able to stand in a tank battle. This threat scenario once existed, but there is no longer. That is, we do not need countless people now who know exactly where a weapon is at the front and the back, and can be heated as a cannon feed – we do not need to thank God anymore – but we need highly specialized units. That is what we need today, and that is what Dr. Schüssel already recognized and demanded at the time. Now that's what the SPÖ has recognized. But what happens? – It's repressing each other again. If I hear that the professional force – which is sensible and could finally eliminate this service – can't be done for civil service, then I must say that it must be done on the tongue! We need 13 000 civilians in Austria – if we need them, have we already heard them – is questionable; are we supposed to need them – and to do so we commit 30,000 to the Federal Army?- Oh, my God! That's where the cock grazes with the dog. You have to imagine that! To refer to a replacement service in order to justify a forced service, this can only happen to a very creative spirit. The ÖVP argues this way today. But were you not those who accused the Minister of the Federal Republic of Germany of being a civil servant? And now you explain to us that we need the general obligation to legitimise just like you called them? – How do I understand? I also hear again and again that we need the German army so urgently because of disaster protection. – We know that in peak times, in extreme exceptional situations 8,000 soldiers are used for disaster protection. That's what we know, that's all. Over the year there are 6.4 percent of the recruits we use, but in peak season it is 8,000. However, we also know that there are 300 000 volunteer fire brigades in Austria. 300,000! What do you think they feel when they hear: If the German army loses only a few recruits in disaster protection, then the world will collapse!Unknown term type: "%s".? We have 300 000 volunteers who take care of it, and we do care about it very well – but no one talks about it. In addition, we have 30 000 people in the “Team Österreich” – those are all those who did not go under compulsion but volunteerly. What are we doing with them? - Nothing! That's the problem. The problem is not that we don't have enough volunteers for disaster protection, but the problem is that we have inadequate people in the organization. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign]] That's why: We need voluntary service in the federal army, we need a professional army, we don't need a forced service for our young people, where they don't learn anything anyway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-09-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e14706	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. [[10:31:38]] Current European hour
ParlaMint-AT_2012-09-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e14727	We're now coming to the current one. European hours on the subject: “No debt union without referendum, Federal Chancellor!” The first is Mr Klubobmann Strache. The speaking time is 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-09-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e14754	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! “No debt union without a referendum, Mr. Federal Chancellor!” is the title of today’s current European hour. It must be pointed out again and again that you made a promise to the Austrians in 2008 in the run-up to the last National Council election, in this famous, well-known letter, which was also printed in the largest daily newspaper in the country. You have to be reminded again and again of what you promised the people at the time, and remember the relevant passages from this letter. I quote: “On the basis of continuous information and open discussion, we believe that future Treaty changes affecting Austrian interests should be decided by a referendum in Austria.” So far, so good or so bad. What your then given word is worth, we have had to experience quite sad in a row, because you have refused a referendum to the Austrian population on this issue. If you recall your word of the day, then, of course, because of the debate on the committee of inquiry, you have to remember the "summer talk" in the ORF, where you have said that if you are invited by Members to the Committee of Inquiry, you will, of course, comply with this invitation. We, the 37 Members of the Liberal Group, have made the effort to invite you personally, and I can also hand over the letter to you personally today. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[The speaker presented the above letter to Federal Chancellor Faymann.]] Mr Bundeskanzler, you want to accept this invitation. If you want to do this seriously, if you really think this is serious, then you should at last ask your Members from SPÖ and above all, Mr Otto Pendl, to end this blockade. This is, of course, a very transparent game when you say on one side: [[Abg. Krainer: On the matter!]] I am ready to come to the committee at any time, but I would like to block this from your party colleagues in the Committee of Inquiry and, in fact, to prevent further information in the field. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This is just as dishonest as the letter you received in the biggest daily newspaper you did not follow. [[Call the SPÖ:For business!]] New up-to-date on the subject European Stability Mechanism is available through the decision of the Constitutional Courts in Karlsruhe. The criticism of the Constitutional Court, which the constitutional judges in Karlsruhe have put to the fore, gives us freedom of expression in our criticism. To a large extent, this criticism is identical to what the constitutional judges in Karlsruhe have held, namely that the level of the European Stability Mechanism is not limited by international law. The Constitutional Court in Germany has rightly asked the German Federal Government and also the Federal Day to define this limitation and to hold it under international law. [[Abg. Dr. Wittmann: We already built that!]] We and our experts have pointed out here in the House that there is no explicit restriction on us. [[Abg. Dr. Wittmann: It's already built! Read the law!]] They have decided a European Stability Mechanism with €20 billion liability and know that this is not the maximum limit. Many experts in the hearing have explained to you that in extreme cases the liability of Austrian taxpayers would not be 20 billion, but could even be 386 billion euros. You should take that seriously. This is the minimum that should be taken from the decision of the German Constitutional Courts to ensure international law here in the High House that we can never be used for liabilities over €20 billion without Parliament's decision. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I am very sad that the constitutional judges in Germany did not have the courage to tilt the injustice shield as a whole. But at least on this question they have lived up to more responsibility than here red, black and green together. At least in this area, they have noted at least one thing or another and have therefore finally turned away. However, the decision of the German constitutional judges will not affect us in our resistance to this ESM-dictat. We will continue to resist vehemently by ensuring that the Constitutional Court of Justice is called upon through the liberal government members in Carinthia, because it is necessary to avert this injustice shield and this abduction and expropriation shield, which is an infectious mechanism. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] We will do everything possible in our area, because, of course, the European Stability Mechanism is a mechanism that leads us to a debt and transfer union. And this very debt and transfer union rejects the vast majority of the Austrian population vehemently. It is 80 percent of Austrians who reject a way towards a debt and transfer union, and you know that. That is why you are not prepared to vote for a referendum. You're afraid of the people. They continue to make decisions permanently within the meaning of their party policy interests – against the majority of the Austrian population. These are also the reasons why the Austrians are rightly outraged. I say to you that the next National Council election will be a referendum which you, red, black and green, have refused to vote in this House. This referendum is coming, and in this referendum you will also get the bill presented that you are heading against your own population towards a debt and transfer union, thus making our Republic of Austria [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Muttons]] Duration, of course, gradually loses the independence that sovereignty is supposed to. But we do not want a process or a way that leads towards a European centralist superstate, we want to remain a sovereign state. We want to preserve our sovereignty, our budgetary sovereignty here in the House and ensure it is necessary. We do not want to be unjustly redistributed, as you have to answer them under Red-Black Green here in this House. And this is an unfair redistribution process that you have decided: our taxpayers, in which case now €20 billion in liability, into an ESM screen, without any precise limitation, also far beyond. Austrian taxpayers are forced to stand straight for bank speculators who have covered their funds. You've made this decision, that's your redistribution. It is not socially just with God. On the contrary! They should ensure that Austrian taxpayers' taxpayers are also used for Austrian citizens in the education system, infrastructure, research and innovation, pension security, pension price index adjustment in the field of inflation. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] That's where you should take care of it. In the care allowance you have made cuts, in the family allowance you have made cuts, on the back of your own citizens, but are at any time willing to divert the citizens of taxpayers for banks that have ultimately irresponsibly made speculation transactions and losses – for this the Austrians must then come up. [[Call the SPÖ: The hypo!]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] The Socialists, in particular, are Austrian banks have come up with the following: Yes, it is next to the hypo also the municipal credit! – The person responsible is behind me, who caused the highest damage, namely Mrs Schmied, who was active in the Financial Board at the time – completely right. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But these are Austrian banks, I am right in giving you where we somehow have a responsibility for our savers and where we should ensure the savings of our own citizens. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Muttons.]] That does not mean, however, that we should stand up for the bank speculators of the whole world, as you want to do in addition and as your own people are. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, it is precisely this: this limit on liability is now at least guaranteed by international law. This is also what we want to implement in international law, and the Federal Government is now at least called upon to do so. In the end, it is necessary to note at least this international reservation and to ensure the sovereignty of decision in this House also in the case of higher liability amounts over €20 billion if these are to be struck. And there the highest judges in Germany have at least made more thoughts than Red-Black-Green in this House and at least have done more conscientiously on this question. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Jarolim.]] In any event, we liberties will ensure that the Constitutional Court proceeds to bring a constitutional action, more precisely, an application for a legislative examination or state treaty examination relating to Article 23i para. 4 of the Federal Constitutional Act, or the Treaty on the European Stability Mechanism, because it has blatant violations on many points, of course also against the Maastricht Treaty, where it was definitely excluded from ever developing towards a debt and transfer union. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] Here there are legal breaks where I say it is our responsibility, yes obligation to ensure in the interests of the Austrians this constitutional action, the Red-Black Green very, very feared and therefore wanted to prevent.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-09-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e14931	Mr Faymann spoke on a preliminary opinion. The speaking time should not exceed 10 minutes. - Please, Federal Chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-09-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e14953	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! If my previous speaker, Mr Strache, said that he was sorry that the constitutional judges in Germany did not have the courage to tilt the screen as a whole, then he was already saying two things: first, that he did not understand that there are independent courts that do not depend on courage or courage, but that he has to explain and decide the legal situation; and secondly, that the effects if Germany could not have been able to pay more than 25 percent for the protection shield, either had caused the other considerable additional costs or had been reduced in total to protection in a very difficult situation of the euro. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] [[Abg. Riepl: That's the way it is!]] [[Abg. Strache: are not politically occupied, the judges!]] There is a time and again – although I know that many members of this House know this and are a repetition, but it cannot take place often enough – how much we Austrians benefit from the current more stable situation of the euro than you wish it to the euro and the Austrians. We benefit from a record level of employment and low unemployment, and we benefit especially in this area of exports that others in Europe can afford something and do not sink into poverty or mass unemployment, because: ‘Cars do not buy cars’. The preservation of purchasing power in Europe is also a protection for the Austrian economy and the Austrian workers. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] This protection is not a question of any party-political calculation by preferring to scatter the euro zone. As I heard in the summer talk, you do not even fall into five countries that should be there afterwards. [[Call at the FPÖ:But your idea was yes! - I'm ashamed of myself!]] The decision that this Europe has a currency that is also defended by a shield, the ESM, that this Europe has made the decision to act in solidarity, for example, for Austria, that the current stability of the euro leads to an interest rate development of our state bonds – I am not talking about the overall situation, but about Austria, as you always demand – in Austria, our ten-year-old government bonds, which in 18th century. ==References====External links== Now we have to say that we always set about 4 percent interest rate as expected costs for our government bonds. There have been times when this was clear about it. We are currently at a record low when paying interest on government bonds. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bucher.]] All this is not too secret, if you also talk about the advantages that such a strong country as Austria or, for example, our German neighbor in this situation also takes with you – in the form of employment, economic power, but also the consequently lower interest rates. If you know that a percentage point difference, based on general government debt – fortunately, in Austria, on average, to 15 years or more; in other countries, this period of change in government debt is unfortunately becoming increasingly shorter and therefore the problem for many European countries is not easier, but more difficult to solve – seen over this long period of time as 2 billion € per year, then you can see what annual advantage this difference between 4 percent and 2 percent – if we can only maintain it – is given for this stable situation in Austria, but also in Germany and other countries. Therefore, to tell Austrians how poor we are, that we also need to secure the euro, and how sad it is that we invest in shields is truly only half the truth – or, on the contrary, often the untruth – if one does not say at the same time what benefits and what foreseeable, very clear revenue or lower expenditure are associated with a stabilisation of the euro. And from the fact that in Austria we have so little to spend on unemployed people compared to other countries, because we have lower unemployment, of these resources that we save compared to other countries that have 20, 30, 40 percent youth unemployment – in addition to human suffering – we can pay pensions, boost the economy and make meaningful expenditure. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Street@item incidence access is by owner only]] [[Call to the FPÖ: for which also the euro?]] So this also benefits the Austrians clearly. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] Now, the European Central Bank, also an independent body, has also taken a decision that it is willing, on the condition that a country is in the ESM, to use its ability to buy government bonds. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stefan.]] [[Calls and calls between FPÖ and SPÖ MPs.]] In other words, it will be possible, even without a limit, but under strict conditions, even with repeated controls, to raise the euro even more, together by the political decisions of the ESM and the States and by the decisions taken by the European Central Bank. You don't care, I know you want out of the euro. You've only got the bad luck, you've got a competitor who wants to. Talk to him! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] This concerns Austria and the development of our economy and the situation of workers in our country. [[Abg. Straight: 50 percent of your former voters see this as different from you!]] Therefore, it is so important to say that this decision is another step in the right direction to have instruments and possibilities to protect and strengthen the common currency for the above and many other reasons for the economy of Europe and for the economy of Austria. So there have been correct decisions that have to do with the fact that we are jointly interested in debt management, so that there is no one leaving the monetary zone, but that everyone, if he does his duties properly in the country, also has the opportunity to remain in the single currency zone. [[Call the FPÖ: Which is not the case! What's not the case, evidence!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Book]] This question of management must therefore be given such a high priority, because every euro that some countries are currently paying at far too high interest rates because their government bonds do not guarantee this security in contrast to Austria, Germany, the Netherlands, of course, these countries make considerable difficulties in this vicious circle at the same time. How can they save and invest at the same time if they have nothing at their disposal to invest, because all this goes up in the budget at too high interest rates? Therefore, we are interested that the economy is growing again, that funds are available for investments and are not simply spent for overly high and for other countries non-controllable interest rates for government bonds. Therefore, the discipline that we have decided in Europe, but also in Austria, but also the opportunity to invest and thus to breathe, and thus also to deal with the issue of debt management in Europe, are important points that help Europe to help people in Europe, but which also bear in mind the Austrians very clearly: [[Abg. May. Stefan: Maastricht Treaty! We decided!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stefan]] What benefits the common Europe also benefits Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-09-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e15129	I would draw attention to the fact that the speaking time of all other participants at the current European hour, as already announced, is 5 minutes each. Mr Krainer came to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-09-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e15159	Madam President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Since it was questioned whether this was really a maximum: It is not true that all or even most experts have said that; a single expert has said that that would not be a maximum. If you read the law, you could read – I quote –: [[Intervocations at the FPÖ, including:but cheap, Mr. Colleague, right?]] ‘Changes of this contractually determined’ – hearing It's all right! – ‘fixed maximum amounts shall be as provided for in Article 10(1). 1 of the contract establishing the ESM only possible if the approved parent capital is changed. However, a corresponding decision of the Board of Governors would enter into force only after the conclusion of the respective national procedures ( ) had been notified to the ESM.’ The national procedure in Austria is defined: a decision of the National Council. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bucher.]] So this fixed contractual ceiling can only be changed by a decision of this House here, that is Austrian law. [[Abg. Bookbooker: Can you at any time!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Deimek.]] We've premeditated what the judges have assembled in Karlsruhe. [[Abg. May. Stefan: International law!]] If you read exactly, you'd see that in there, there's a lot of talk about that being a fixed amount. But to be sure, you would like a statement – nothing easier than that: Of course, the contracting parties at European level have already decided to explain what is clear, namely that the maximum amount is really a maximum. [[Ironic Holiness of the Abg. Kickl.]] [[Call the FPÖ:As before!]] - So much for your insecurity. She doesn't irritate anyone in this house at all. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Call the FPÖ: Maximum!]] You must never forget where the problems come from. The financial crisis has led the nation states to take a lot of money into their hands and take it in order to save banks to stabilise financial markets and, of course, to finance the fight against crisis, unemployment et cetera. That is, these exploding sovereign debt are a consequence of the financial crisis, and the rescue and stabilisation of financial markets has cost a lot of money. But what happened is that the financial markets, which had just been saved, then began to speculate against individual saviors, against individual states. And one of the first goals in 2009 was Austria. Let us remember – the Chancellor here pointed out the interest we are paying – that our interest rates have suddenly been as high as those of Greece, 2009, because there have been economic problems in Eastern Europe. That was where the very first rescue shield was strained, because in Austria at that time we passed the Balance of Payments Stabilisation Act. At that time, Hungary and other Eastern European countries, which are not with the euro, were being stretched up a protective shield of over €50 billion, so Austria benefited almost from the first rescue shield that was stretched up here. Yes, I think it is absolutely right for us to ensure that states cannot become victims of speculation of financial markets and that we shape the financing and refinancing of states regardless of financial markets. This is now the point where the ECB says that it is ready to do so under important conditions, namely that there is not only money without end and then individual states will spend this money without ending, but that there are also very clear rules, through the Fiscal Pact and other rules in force. There's actually a traffic light system. The traffic light stands on green, that is, the state has its spending under control, it can do what it thinks is right, and it can decide quite normally and sovereignly. Yellow says he's insecure, it's uncertain whether he's got his finances under control, the others are going to look him over his shoulder more strongly – a deficit procedure. And Red says it is obvious that a country does not come out of its own and does not have its finances under control; then it will no longer be able to decide on its own, because then it is no longer just its money, but then the other states that support and finance it will decide what happens to this money – that is, a country that is under the umbrella, such as Greece. If the FPÖ goes out now and here always criticizes Greece, that is, a country in the south, then we look at the country in the south of Austria, where exactly the party that criticises it has taken irresponsible risks, namely not only liability for Austria – more than we now hold for the ESM, a higher sum has been entered into in Carinthia as liability – but the big difference is: It was beating. – You have to turn away now, of course, because this is, of course, unpleasant for the chairman of the FPÖ. – More than €3 billion has already cost us this, and it is not sure whether it will not be more. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign]] There the people were not questioned, no, the party that is talking here about referendums is running today for the seventh time before the people to prevent new elections in Carinthia, because it does not want to be held accountable for this policy which it has made. [[call to the FPÖ]]
ParlaMint-AT_2012-09-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e15294	Mr Dr. Stummful is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-09-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e15321	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! Today’s media coverage – in newspapers, on television – dominates expressions such as “financial crisis”, “state debt crisis”, “bank crisis”, “confidence crisis”, “political crisis”. Sometimes one would almost tend to follow the call of a cabaretist who meant some time ago: Make yourself a beautiful day today, don't read newspapers! Nice side by side, ladies and gentlemen! What bothers me a little bit with this whole Krisaryede, is that something very banal is completely overlooked: that every crisis is also a chance. And now we have the chance and we take it, ladies and gentlemen. You have to be so honest as to say: We will now eliminate structural errors of the euro. [[Abg. Bucher: Centralization!]] It was, of course, back-looking blue-eyeed to believe that the euro, the Maastricht criteria will only ensure that everything remains stable. Today we can say that we need to put in place additional measures. I have to say honestly, if Mr Strache has already mentioned some time ago that the euro is a dead birth, then I have already said that the euro is basically a success story – if you stick to the facts and facts, ladies and gentlemen. Three facts and facts: Today, the euro is 30 percent more valuable than the dollar. The euro is the largest part of all world currency reserves after the dollar. The stability effect of the euro is such that, according to all the papers of the central bank, the inflation rate in the first ten years in which there was the euro was 1.7 percent, in the last ten years it has been 2.2 percent. So the euro has fulfilled all the stability requirements, and therefore we rarely read of a euro crisis – which would be wrong, we do not have a euro crisis – but rather of the above-mentioned crises, the sovereign debt crisis, the banking crisis and so on. Ladies and gentlemen! We are here now, and there are 17 heads of government – the Federal Chancellor Faymann is there –, 17 finance ministers like Maria Fekter, 17 central bank presidents, a staff of experts to the best of knowledge and conscience and are well on the go! What was everything decided here? – The ESM will not enter into force until October following the decision in Karlsruhe. – We have the new purchasing policy for the ECB’s government bonds. [[Abg. May. Stefan: Do you like it? Is that all right?]] Of course, we know that both the ESM and the ECB have nothing to do with helping these countries to gain time to meet that strategic triangle, which means: Budget consolidation, structural reforms, boosting growth and employment and increasing competitiveness. [[Abg. May. Stefan: Do you think that's right what the ECB is doing? That would interest me!]] Without that, there will certainly be nothing, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. May. Stefan: Is that right?]] We create the conditions, whether through the ESM or the ECB, so that these countries can take time to implement these necessary reforms. [[Abg. May. Stefan: The ECB purchases do you think are correct?]] Mr. Collegue, what I notice – I say this now, consciously – is: With your argumentation you go hand in hand with the speculators of the casino capitalism of Wall Street. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the FPÖ.]] America was against the euro from home. That's no wonder. The dollar had a monopoly, and of course all speculators speculate against the euro on Wall Street, no question at all – because they want to push the euro out again because the monopoly of the dollar is no longer present! And you go hand in hand with them, ladies and gentlemen! [[President Neugebauer shall take over the chairmanship.]] As for the return to Schilling, the Frank Stronach and you are promoting North and South Euro, okay! - You know the Wifo study. [[Abg. Street: North and South Euro! You know that!]] [[Abg. Strache: Since the fielder is gone!]] Whether Greece is going to leave the country alone or not, whether it's going to leave the country, whether it's North or South, if that happens, we'll have the following: a 10% reduction in gross social product – that would be the biggest economic crisis in the last decades – and 140 000 more unemployed, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Strache: How many unemployed do we have at present?]] That's what you want? You can't be serious, ladies and gentlemen. [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] Think a little bit, act on the basis of data and facts and not on the basis of beer table atmospheres. That's, I think, your problem. Ladies and gentlemen, let me say the following: If we – the whole government and the Green Group – fight so much for the stability of the euro, at international level, at European level, here in the High House, we do so because the euro is our wages and salaries, our pensions and our savings. And we will do everything we can to maintain the stability of our savings, the stability of wages and salaries and pensions, even if you are so much against it.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-09-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e15466	Next speaker: Mr Kickl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-09-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e15487	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! You don't know where to start in the face of the previous speakers and what they left us out there. I would, however, like to address Mr Krainer very briefly. Mr Krainer, you do not have to stress every time that your group, the socialists here in the house and the socialists everywhere, of course, everyone else is far more at heart – the Greeks, the Irish, the Portuguese, the Spaniards and whoever, up to the Martians, should eventually land – than the Carinthian population. You don't have to put that out every time, we know, we all know this in here, and above all the Carinthians who will show it properly to your SPÖ during the election, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] A few questions to the Federal Chancellor, who has clearly stated here that the paradisiacal conditions in which we are located, are basically all related to the euro. I have heard from Mr Bundeskanzler that the euro is responsible for the low unemployment rate in Austria. Now I ask you: What currency is there in Greece, Mr Bundeskanzler? What currency is there in Spain? What currency is there in the other countries we are talking about all the time when we are talking about the shield, if not the euro? And why is unemployment very, very high there, Mr. Federal Chancellor? – It can’t be the euro. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] They say that we pay so little interest for our government bonds because the euro is such a great product. Those we need to protect by means of a so-called rescue shield are also in the euro zone, and there the euro is obviously responsible for the fact that they need exactly these shields that keep blowing you up at ever shorter intervals. So far from now, with your so to speak training from the banking sector – even if it has been mentioned briefly in the CV – it cannot be, Mr Bundeskanzler, that is what I would like to say to you. And the whole thing is not going any better through the propaganda towards the FPÖ, which you try to spread here again and again. None of us want to leave the European Union, as you have said wrongfully again today. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I'll tell you what we want to get out of: We want to emerge from the deadly circle, from the negative spiral, which is that you are making yourself here, and with you your coalition partner, and the Austrians once again want to explain to you that you want to save democracy by shutting down democracy. I am here in your promise of a referendum on the accession to the debt union. We're defending ourselves! And from this deadly circle we want to leave where one wants to self-determination or, with another word, to save freedom by removing freedom. This is the course of competence towards the European Union. Let's get out of here, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We also want to get out of a negative spiral and out of a deadly circle, which consists of saying: We want to eliminate a huge old debt by making new and even more debts. – Go with this proposal on debt advice, Mr Bundeskanzler, and leave it. You will explain to the experts there how far you will get with this strategy! You'll bang against the wall before you leave the room because everyone will tell you: Well, if you do, it can't be. Here you sit down and with you Your government partner and with you the highly prized heads of state of the European Union, and welcoming exactly this model: an old pile of debt by removing an ever larger one I'll get you a new one. I'll tell you: We must get out of this circle, not from the European Union, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I have already said that, in fact, formally – I have once again looked at your CVs – the conditions would not be bad: after studying law, an internship in a bank. You'd have it all together. We would, as it were, have the legal expertise – the value and importance of a referendum – that we would also have the economic know-how of the banking sector. That would actually be the ideal conditions for a German chancellor to lead Austria efficiently through this crisis. We are in a happy situation, the Germans have only one physicist, so we are actually almost enviable. The only problem is that you don't care about it. Mr. Federal Chancellor, I invite you to a recalculation exercise. Let's do this together, the Hautevolee of the SPÖ education policy is behind me anyway. If I get infinity – or I can say it with another word: unlimited or unlimited – and subtracte 190 billion from it, what remains? The time is short, I'll tell you: It remains infinite. It remains infinite! And that's exactly one of the problems we're facing with this ESM. The Germans have frozen their contribution to this € 190 billion. What does this freezing mean in case of cases? And the ESM is set up in the case of cases. This means that the Germans will have to pay € 190 billion, but the rest of the infinity will have to be raised by those who are still eligible for payment at all. And now we're taking off all those who are stuck to the paper, but who already have the water up to the neck, so that we had to set up the screen because of them: There aren't many left! Austria remains, Mr. Federal Chancellor! If I were you, I would sleep very restlessly, you would have made this country a red and white-red banknote for pleite states and the speculators behind them! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That's where you led Austria! This is a very, very elitist status. Without popular vote, of course, without limit of course! Nothing is guaranteed by international law. The Undank of the Austrian population will reach you at the next election, thanks to Goldman Sachs, who is sure to you, ladies and gentlemen! They'll thank you. Finally, ladies and gentlemen: The credibility of politics in general and of it in particular, we say it carefully once more, since your refusal to go to this U committee. Turn it around, take the chance! You know, you can start every day. Make the way for your pre-loading in the Investigation Committee, and make it possible to save your remaining credibility of democracy politically, to open the way for a referendum in Austria on our accession to the Debt Union!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-09-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e15603	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Rossmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-09-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e15624	Mr President. Appreciate members on the government bank! High house! Well, Mr. Kickl, let's expect a little! Why are we in this financial crisis? Why do we need a euro rescue shield? Why do we need an unlimited intervention by the European Central Bank in secondary markets? [[Abg. Kickl: Let me guess: the right radicals are to blame!]] Because there was a financial and banking crisis. Didn't you know? And this financial and banking crisis has led to an indebtedness in the states. [[Abg. Kickl: We didn't have any debts before?]] And then there's something else. You say you want to learn from the banks. – Yes, from the banks you can already learn one thing: speculation. You can learn that. If you think you can learn the necessary know-how at the banks to get the states out of the periphery where they are today, then this is a mistake. A mistake, therefore, because the financial markets have speculated precisely against these countries and because of this speculation these countries have come into the situation in which they are now. Greece may be exempt. There are other causes that play a role. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] But the real problem that we have is the financial markets and the primacy of financial markets on policy. And that must be smashed. It's not about saying: The ESM is not the appropriate instrument. The ESM is one of the instruments, together with the recent decision of the European Central Bank, to purchase unlimited bonds on the secondary market in order to resolve this situation. [[Abg. May. Stefan: Who's good for? For the believers!]] [[Abg. Kickl: This is the way down!]] Any national bank in this world – whether the FED in the US or the central bank in Great Britain – is a lender of last resort, that is, has the possibility to buy unlimited government bonds. The central banks are responsible not only for the stability of the currencies, but also for the provision of loans and money for all states – not only for the rich north, but also for the countries on the periphery of the south. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Now to Mr Strache's claim that the Greens would have been able to get on the table during the negotiations on the ESM. Yes, the exact opposite is true! What the judges in Karlsruhe found last week, the Greens negotiated with the Federal Government. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the FPÖ.]] The judges in Karlsruhe have given us the right to bring matter to justice. If you say that the limits of liability can be increased to €386 billion, then you need further education in the calculation and follow-up instruction in what the law says. The legal situation is very clear – Mr Krainer has already pointed out – that a breach of these €19 billion in the field of parliamentary co-determination rights on the one hand and in the ESM Treaty is not possible unless the Minister of Finance receives an order from this House to be in the Board of Governors about anything else. [[Abg. Kickl: Or an emergency occurs! What about this passus?]] Everything else you say is simply wrong, Mr. Kickl! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Kickl: And what about the emergency passus?]] But let's compare this situation we have at the ESM with the Carinthian situation. You never talked about referendum. And do you know what liability you've entered there? There you have entered liability limits that simply have to be called responsible. In 2006 it was €24.7 billion – that is 67 percent more than the economic performance of the whole country of Carinthia! [[Abg. Kickl: How high are the liabilities of the other Land-Hypos? Explain this to us once!]] The 19.5 billion liabilities of the Republic represent exactly 6.3 percent of the economic performance of our country. – Mr Kickl, please let me talk! Now I'm talking! In 2009, the liabilities accounted for €19.4 billion – which was still 16 percent more than the economic performance of the country of Carinthia. And who had to jump in here savingly, without a referendum? The Austrian taxpayers, the Republic of Austria, because they bought the mortgage by €4. [[Abg. Kickl: It's not true! Wrong! Wrong!]] And how much has this cost Austrian taxpayers, Mr. Kickl? Up to €3.2 billion! And the end of the flag rod is not reached at Weitem. [[Abg. Kickl: How much does the municipal credit cost?]] If you and your party constantly want to return to Schilling, I would like to tell you one more thing: This is the way back to the small state, which encourages the financial markets to Halali for the final collapse of the euro system, because it exposes Austria to the highly speculative financial markets, and it leads to the most severe recession that Austria has ever had, with mass unemployment and the like. [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign.]] What we want is further integration with Fiscal Union, the Banking Union and a Social Union. Therein lies the future of Europe – and not in your retropolitics! – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-09-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e15817	Next speaker: Mr. Klubobmann Bucher. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-09-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e15838	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Rossmann! – Wait a minute with the speech “Chairman of the Land”! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wenninger.]] I'll give you the time to the next country election in Carinthia. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Cheerfulness at the SPÖ.]] Mr Rossmann, the hypo story is one that you seem to have not really understood, because the mortgage was owned by the Bavarian Landesbank. We shouldn't forget that. And there will be another judicial act where it will be about what the Federal Government of Red and Black has taken, and above all the Finance Minister Pröll, to release Bavaria from their responsibility. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] It is not clear that a bank has to be picked up by the Austrian taxpayer, although the Bavaria have ruined this bank before and deducted billions there, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! [[In the case of the BZÖ, as well as the members of the FPÖ.]] This has been a political deal of the ÖVP with the CSU in Bavaria. That's the truth. And over it the courts will still have to be found. Putting us or any other party into the shoes is absolutely wrong, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! That's why the court will still deal with it. Mr Bundeskanzler, if you are so convinced that Europe is on the right track and the decision-makers are right in Brussels, yes, why don't you have the courage, why don't you trust to join the people and say: Let us vote on the further development of Europe.Unknown term type: "%s".? Why don't you have the mumm to take the people with you as far as the decision on the future of Europe is concerned? Because you know exactly that the population represents a completely different view than you do! I tell you, Federal Chancellor: The population is right! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The population knows that Europe is on the wrong track and that these decisions that have been made will still have the grandchildren and probably their children to bathe and finance. Put the EU skeptics, do not put the EU critics in a corner with those who want to endanger Europe and the peace of Europe! That's not fair, it's not serious! In a democracy, it must be allowed to think about alternatives. It can't be that it says: This solution scenario at European level is an alternative! We're thinking about alternatives, even with experts. We did this in the hearing. And the population has a right to learn what other solutions and solutions are available. If you say here that we are actually doing well with the current development, because we have very low interest rates to pay for our debts, then stick to the truth – you have said, you have to say the whole truth – and also say that we are paying so low interest rates because the others are much worse than we are in terms of credit quality. But not because we are so good, but because the other Pleite countries are already fleeing under the umbrella and receiving the money from the European Central Bank. That is the reality and the explanation. The fact that this path does not work, Mr President, is what we see as regards the development of the economy. We're going towards recession. Unemployment rates are rising in Europe. You cannot speak well of the fact that the solution scenarios are fruity and therefore the solutions are correct. In Greece's example, we see that all rescue attempts have failed, that the situation in Greece is getting worse from day to day for the Greeks and that the European-level solution scenarios are not grasping. So, Federal Chancellor, a solution to this whole problem will not succeed with the European Stability Mechanism. What this European Stability Mechanism “successes”, ladies and gentlemen, will be that Austrian taxpayers will be asked to cash – and that in unlimited amount! And that's the objection to this decision you made there. For me, Mr President, it is stupid, completely unexplainable, as an ÖVP and as an ÖVP-Obmann Spindelegger can say, he is looking forward to the Republic of Europe. – Yes, how can this happen to a conservative?- Oh, my God! [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign.]] Let us remember the founders of Europe, De Gasperi, Adenauer, Schuman. They wanted a sovereign Europe with sovereign member countries, but not a socialist central state, ladies and gentlemen of the Conservatives! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Consider those who have founded Europe – and not the socialists who want to abuse Europe!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-09-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e15966	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Matznetter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-09-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e15987	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! It's interesting what you can hear here from the chairman of the BZÖ. By the way, his founder was a certain Dr. Jörg Haider, exactly the one who invited the Bavarian Landesbank to buy an institute here for expensive money. I don't want to talk about the intelligence of Bavarian state bankers now. So let's say this: A due diligence has apparently not taken place sufficiently, only objectively according to facts. [[Abg. Petzner: Read small opinions!]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Deimek: It wasn't polite now!]] But that you are now making yourself here – this party, with this man, about whom you learn afterwards that millions have been paid over the “Birni” and when the epigones then said they would like to have something of it – and then reject it and say that this is the fault of the Federal Government or of the then vice chancellor Pröll, which is almost unfair. [[Abg. Petzner: Have you not read the small opinion?]] For this is what the taxpayers pay for, for a bank made under Jörg Haider as the instrument of financing, for the castle hotel where you reside, for the “necessary” helicopter landings, events and the like. [[Abg. Petzner: That's all in the Small Opinion!]] It was needed, it was used, and in the end it was one of the biggest pleas in this Republic. [[Abg. Petzner: Read small opinions!]] And that you're talking today! – Let the people talk! The biggest chuzpe is even the FPÖ, which stands here and says: The people must not vote! – What to do How about every week in the Carinthian Landtag? They prevent that being voted on in the form of a country election! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and Greens.]] Because Mr. Dörfler and Mr. Scheuch – apologise, now Scheuch II, for the other is so far caught in a criminal proceedings and condemned that he had to go – are afraid that the Carinthian people have the chance to justify your bill. [[Abg. May. Stefan: Oh, go!]] For this action to take a country hostage, a way of calling and saying: A construction order? Go on! The main thing on it is and he has found it, Mr Landesrat. [[Abg. Stretch: Wait for the election result in Carinthia!]] To return to our situation here in Europe: It is not true that Europe is in such a situation for the first time. We had a world economic crisis 80 and 90 years ago. At that time, such recipes were tried: We are! - Every country has been shot off. There was no help. The one has the so-called thousand mark barrier, so that no guests come to Austria. And this mind children try to use fears 80 years later to enforce a similar kind of economic policy among the population. We should have learned at the time that it only works in a cooperation, in the realization that we together have a community of fate, even in the European Union, which makes it necessary, even if it does not make one happy to jump in, just as the rest of the Austrians have jumped in for Carinthia. [[Abg. May. Stefan: Human Children of the Professional Force!]] [[Abg. Bookbooker: Solidarity!]] The Republic of Austria has not been held liable for the €19 billion, but actually. For if the Hypo Alpe-Adria Pleite had gone, then this liability of the country of Carinthia would have automatically led to the fact that all of Austria had difficulty placing its bonds. That is, the bill, the uncovered change, has long been drawn by the decision-makers in Carinthia to all the castles in Austria, in all the federal states, from Vorarlberg to Burgenland. In such a situation it only helps to bite the teeth together. And even if this damage has been caused by such politicians as in Carinthia and is responsible for it, we have to ensure that not an even bigger one is done. We must do the same in Europe. Your argument that you're showing is partly cockbled. I know it's all from kickl. You come out, Mr. Strache, and you spit down what he wrote. And then he makes himself and criticizes the CV of Mr. Federal Chancellor. In his CV there is only propaganda for the FPÖ at all, more there is not to be found there. This is the “responsibility ” you are dealing with on this subject. Look After that on his own homepage: nothing but propaganda! [[Abg. Strache: (on Chancellor Faymann pointing) At least not seven years of hole in the CV! But the one behind you has a problem!]] – I've only worked a serious profession for 20 years, which makes a difference. That's the difference with you. You should rather talk about Amalgamplomben – I stay with my part, where what is necessary for economic policy. [[Interlocutory calls by Dr. Strutz and Ing. Hofer.]] This ESM is nothing but an insurance benefit. All Member States together create what we have with the IMF worldwide: an insurance we hope will never need. But I always pay any more premium than getting damage compensation afterwards. Our solidarity applies to all those who are developing this European idea that has brought us peace and prosperity. I hope that those who interfere and want to destroy the fifth column of the speculators, the voters put a proper stop sign in front of the nose, next in the dear state of Carinthia. [[Abg. Strache: You are already responsible for speculation!]] That's where you can dream of the country's captain's dreams, Mr. Bucher.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-09-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e16189	Next speaker: Mr Auer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-09-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e16210	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! It is actually interesting to listen to this debate today. And if I have been careful, the colleague, in his speech, said that at least once we should safeguard the liability limit under international law. He has thus said indirectly that he has so far agreed to the measures envisaged, but the liability limit should be secured under international law. [[Abg. You didn't listen again, Mr. Auer!]] – Mr Strache, you should have listened to Mr Krainer, who has explained in detail how it has been done and how it has been set in the law, who can and should be included in and should be extended if a liability limit is to be extended. [[Abg. Strache: In fact, not sustainable by international law!]] Ladies and gentlemen! We have been much further than Germany, much further, because this was set in the law from the outset. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] Obviously, Mr. Strache, you were there too long in hearing, or you have not read the law. There are two possibilities. [[Abg. May. Stefan: You know exactly that! It is a difference whether you make a reservation or not!]] [[Abg. Strache: False and non-sustainable international law!]] You're always telling us you're for Austria. They always tell us that you are for the country, only for Austria, only for the inhabitants. If you really wanted to implement it as you say, then you should be for more employment, for an excellent economy, for economic growth, for stable finances. [[Abg. May. Stefan: You know exactly that's not true!]] And that is what will ensure us accession to the European Union and the euro, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Strache: If we invest the money with us, this is also the case!]] [[Abg. May. Stefan: In Spain, Greece, Italy!]] As a long-standing parliamentarian, I have already wondered this year why Mr Strache did not come up with a theme for a special meeting in summer. There was no special meeting for the first time. Not that I had something special about having to be here in the summer. [[Abg. May. Kogler: You still have to do with the strangling of the investigation committee!]] Where he would have had the opportunity to apply for a special meeting – why did he not do it? – While the government has worked, summer, sun and sea, Mr. Stache! [[Ironic cheerfulness at FPÖ, BZÖ and Greens]] [[Abg. Three opposition parties!]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: Pair again!]] Summer, sun and sea! [[Abg. Strache: Look at the agenda today! Now it's going to be embarrassing! Do you know the Rules of Procedure? “Great” agenda we have today!]] [[Further calls to FPÖ and Greens.]] Have you contributed to the stabilisation of the euro in summer, Mr. Strache? – I don’t know anything! Nothing known! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. You know the provisions of the Rules of Procedure for Special Meetings!? I don't know, Mr. Auer! How long have you been in Parliament?]] So until now, Mr Strache, you have still agreed to apply for a special meeting. Should I tell you how many times you've done that? You didn't think of it today. Why? You didn't have time to do that?- Oh, my God! [[Abg. Strache: This is the call for us to make a special meeting next year in summer! Good call!]] Have you had no time to do this, or have you been on the road for certain personal reasons? Could be. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: With all appreciation: Only cover, but measure the opposition! That's right in the picture! That the ÖVP stands and pulls off a semi-trailer and then measures the opposition!]] Mr Kogler, you know that precise work has been done here in the House. There's an investigation committee. [[Abg. May. Kogler: From the last swamp you are still quaking out!]] We've worked a lot of days – it might be that you weren't there, but it's been working here. Take note of this! [[Abg. Street: Precise agenda of non-working!]] You should also note that Austria has an excellent balance sheet. We have the best employment figures in Europe. We have the second-lowest youth unemployment in Europe. As far as compliance with the Maastricht criteria is concerned, only six countries have a budget deficit of less than 3%, and this includes Austria. Let's be a little proud. That's a great performance. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] An export nation such as Austria, where six out of ten jobs depend on exports, needs a stable currency, needs the euro, needs security here in Europe, ladies and gentlemen. Take a look around what's going on elsewhere! – Your calls in honour, Mr. Collegue, you should nevertheless acknowledge that Austria is excellent if it suits you or not, despite your opposition. [[Abg. May. Stefan: Where do we export? Germany, USA, England!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2012-09-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e16512	The final sentence, please!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-09-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e16528	And anyone who wants stable conditions in the future, even in financial terms, will have to confess to this rescue shield.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-09-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e16560	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Strutz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-09-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e16581	Mr Auer, you will still not succeed in speaking beautifully of this disastrous policy of the ESM, this disastrous financial policy of the Austrian Federal Government. We have the highest unemployment rate in Austria. [[Abg. May. Muttons: Where? What?]] [[Abg. Street: Do you want to deny them?]] They say: “Where?” – I’ll tell you now. Take your own institute, Mrs. Colleague, take the statistics Austria, take the WIFO, take your experts who pay you seriously! What you said here is just not right. [[Abg. Strache: Look at the numbers of the Chamber of Workers!]] You will not be able to speak up about this policy because the Austrians feel something completely different every day in the wallet, at the switch at the labour market service. [[Abg. May. Muttons: Look at Carinthia!]] They are no longer going out to the population. Look You're looking at the snakes where the young people are looking for a job! Mr Auer, we have been earning 35 percent less since the start of the euro in Austria. A recent study by the Swiss large bank UBS shows that the Austrians have less money in the wallet across all income groups. For the best earners, the minimum is 10 percent, but for the poorest and the middle layer 35 percent and more. That's a fact. [[Abg. May. Muttons: Many Carinthians leave because they don't find a job!]] These charges, which you have imposed on the Austrians with this ESM, are paid indirectly by inflation. Read the numbers of your own experts, Mrs. Colleague, the Statistics Austria, now with the evaluation for August. What does that mean? – At daily weekly shopping, which is only the most necessary thing to manage a household, the Austrians have to pay 4.1 percent more for your policy, for the Kotau, which you place weekly in Brussels, for the kneefall you make in front of the financial markets. [[Abg. May. Muttonen: Why is Carinthia at last?]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] As you said, Mr Auer, the Austrians need this euro, the Austrians need this rescue shield: I say to you that the Austrians need a well thought-out financial policy. They need a federal government representing their interests and not the interests of the financial markets in Brussels, banks and speculators. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You missed that, Federal Chancellor. They have failed to consult the Austrians before agreeing to this European Stability Mechanism. Why? – Because you know very well that you are acting against the interests of the Austrians. A majority of Austrians – and these surveys are also available to you – do not want this stability mechanism. They do not want to be automatic, where the Pleite States of Greece, Spain, Cyprus – and now in October Slovenia will be added – automatically throw our hard-earned money into the throat. And why didn't you ask the people about a decision as you do with the federal army now? Why did you not ask the Austrians before this accession of Austria and the consent in this European Rescue Screen? Because you know exactly that another result would have come out. Now you are making a popular survey compulsory, which, in my view, has only one reason to finance an inter-election campaign of SPÖ and ÖVP at the expense of taxpayers. Because a popular survey – we all know – is not a binding means. We are concerned that this financial policy will actually boost inflation even further. We will take all measures in Carinthia in the state government to prevent this ESM in the last step. [[Abg. May. Muttons: You don't even make a choice!]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That is why we will also bring in a constitutional action in the coming weeks, so that you can see that we liberals represent the interests of the Austrians who sacrifice you at the altar in Brussels.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-09-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e16722	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Kogler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-09-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e16743	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! It is a current hour of Parliament's Europe, a right of Members. In this respect, I do not want to accept, in any way, any difference, which is almost different, which the Green Group has on the list of freedoms which has put this issue on the agenda quite rightly, Mr Auer, that you, as a Member of Parliament, are going here and that the Liberal Group, in a good part of your speech, should measure what it should do or should not do as a parliamentary group on the summer. This is not going to happen anymore, especially in view of the role of the members of the government – modernly one would have said “performance”; it is a bad term, but it is still too harmless for what you have done here in recent times from red and black – which torpedo Parliament’s duties – we will still have time to deal with it today – and not only from their responsibility – we would still be used to that, because you are all putting your conscience down there, and you are right first, we are used to that – but we are not in fact in fact, but many are still not, but those still keep the bar – who want to turn away everything that is still in the committee of inquiry. [[Congratulation with Greens and FPÖ]] This will be the subject of the day, and we will also bring you the link to the Europe issue. But first of all: That's unfair. This fits precisely in the picture, however, that after a few fleeting attacks of enlightenment in this spring, the members of the government have fallen back into this old role, and the worse than ever. And you have to answer this low point of political culture, in all your constituencies. And we're still going to take care of these conversations and discussions. And the best comes to the conclusion: You still have time to reverse. No one is required to have his conscience arrested in the wardrobe. You can come down, pick it up again and take a seat here with the appropriate self-confidence. I'll invite you to that. [[Congratulation with Greens and FPÖ.]] Mr Rossmann, I think, has described the links between the sequences of this financial crisis and, unfortunately, the real economic crisis, which, if we are already talking about debt union, is precisely the reverse of what was inherent here. For this reason, I want to focus more on the role of speculation and how we are now in Austria with our European negotiations – we are not so bad at all!; you have to see that now – and I wanted to go on to say once again that this ESM construction is completely in addition. The ESM is ambivalent, I can only repeat it. But it can, properly used, also serve to combat speculation, and that is my topic in the next minute. It can also be misused, namely, if the creditors are to be re-possessed under wrong conditions – that is so. But are we opposed to a solidarity fund in Austria, to Carinthia, or anything else? Are we opposed to a solidarity fund in Austria only because it can be misused for anything, whatever happens again and again? - We're not. See, that's similar, and that was written in the main book to all other hysterics. That is why we will look at it – and we have made provision for it; we have seen that the government is not allowed to be left alone so often – that the Austrian Parliament in plenary, but also in the committees, not only has the right to participate and to information, but also to have definitive final decision-making rights. That is what you regularly, obviously deliberately, misrepresent. The second major instrument will be the Financial Transaction Tax. We will continue to insist on her coming. The very large barricades have been cleared aside, due to the success of the negotiations of the German and Austrian Greens in this context. Finally, ECB policy is crucial. We could have saved the entire ESM story, and the European Central Bank would be doing as it has now announced to do – you have to see – and that is a good thing. In conclusion: The Treaty, which has a standard of international law, shows that the respective national provisions apply, and we have achieved some good example in Austria, Mr Strutz. More than what Karlsruhe requires, we have succeeded in Austria! You have to take note of that. And in this respect, it should not be forgotten in all disputes that this Parliament is bringing something together across several parties. [[Congratulations on Greens, SPÖ and ÖVP.]] This is not so bad, and that is why we will continue to fight for this to happen with regard to the necessary clarification, the necessary reprocessing and the necessary political-moral re-start of our Republic. There will be an opportunity for this to happen today. They use this to go into themselves, and the agenda items follow. But one thing is certainly not going: to present the chair of the Committee of Inquiry. [[Abg. Rädler: She threw herself!]] Although it nevertheless opens the way, still do not take the situation seriously enough and want to continue to prevent the Enlightenment. That's the theme of the day. We'll challenge you, and you'll have to follow.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-09-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e16798	Next speaker: Mr Grosz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-09-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e16819	High house! On behalf of my colleague Mr Matznetter: They come out here to the speaker's desk and criticise the ESM and this debt union, and there is already a lot to be said about this. If the debt policy in Europe is explained to us by three members of the government of the Social Democracy, who have previously been sitting here, namely Faymann, Ostermayer and Schmied, and these three members of the government of the Social Democracy, against which the public prosecutor determines, because they have not been able to deal with public funds, this shows the very special perfidy of this whole discussion, if you, Mr Bundeskanzler, who cannot even deal with advertising money, suddenly explain to us how to deal with the money of taxpayers at European level. - But that's just for the introduction. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] On behalf of Mr Rossmann of the Greens: They say most of the debt has been triggered by the economic crisis in most countries. According to Eurostat – which is likely to be a term for you – Greece already had 106.1 percent of GDP in 2006 as a debt, as did Italy. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Rossmann.]] That is why the economic and financial crisis in some countries was due only to high debt. However, these warning examples have been system-immanent since 2006 and already before, and this is why one should have considered whether such debt countries should be included in a European monetary union at all and risked by the fact that, with our tax money, the Austrian tax money – by the way, Mr Rossmann, also in the debt tower Austria is disappearing through the debt policy of Red and Black – we have to agree for them whether we can finance such countries at all – popularly say: feed through. That was the historical misbelief that leads us to this discussion once again: whether we can imagine Austria to go under the guise of a debt union, even though we ourselves have no money. Then: How much indebtedness Austria has on the basis of GDP in 2011 – more than 70 percent, poor 70 percent – I do not have to quote that. Ladies and gentlemen, I have brought you an example today, an example from my native Graz. The Grazers pay €1.7 billion in income and wealth tax in 2011. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Steibl and Mr Mag. Schickhofer.]] They pay € 940 billion in sales tax, and at other taxes – source: the Ministry of Finance – € 161 billion. Year after year, Grazers, the inhabitants of Austria's second largest city, pay €2.8 billion of taxes, and they owe €1.3 billion in Graz. [[Abg. Jakob Auer: millions, not billions!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Riepl.]] And that is why we say that, in view of the debt situation of our countries, also our communities and the federal government, the little money that we still get through high taxes and taxes – without saying that we are expressing the economy and putting the entrepreneurs, the employees, the workers, the thumb screws – into an unfinancing debt system, into a corrupt “European Kings Club”. [[Abg. May. Gaßner: billions are not like millions!]] This is not the case and we have therefore said several times, based on the figures of the Ministry of Finance, with the figures of Eurostat: Enough paid, ladies and gentlemen! And we write this to you again today in your parent book. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The country's in debt. The formation of the debt union with the participation of Austria means that we are transferring our own misery at European level. And there are several accesses. The access of the German Constitutional Court was a legal one. Also, the access of some parliamentary parties, including the BZÖ, namely that we want to bring an action against the ESM, is a legal one. But, Mr. Faymann, there is also moral access. And you lost this moral access on the day when, together with the ÖVP and with the support of the Greens de facto, you decided to sell out Austria, sell out the Austrian tax system, when you delivered it to a system of concurrants and pleitiers at European level. And we don't want to. We know that we are living in difficult times, and we know that we have to deal responsibly with the Austrian budget. But this means that we also use the money we generate as a result of the performance of the workers, due to the performance of the economy in that country, to the extent that this money serves to eliminate debt in Austria – the pooling of 22 social security institutions, debt eradication!, the resolution of reserves at the Austrian National Bank, debt eradication! – and not to eliminate debts from corrupt Greek mayors or Italian Mafiosi, who de facto have done nothing but live in the rich northern part of Europe at the expense of others in the rich Central Europe. For this we are not to have, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-09-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e16904	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Lugar. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-09-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e16925	Mr President. High house! I've got a few things to do now. It always says that the EU is equal to the euro and the euro is equal to the EU. Just to your memory: We know that there are ten countries in the European Union that do not have the euro and therefore live very well. If Mrs Merkel says again and again, “The euro fails, then Europe fails,” it is simply wrong. It is therefore wrong because the euro did not do exactly what it should have done: The euro should have brought stability. - He didn't. We've been saving him for two years, we've had a rescue program for almost two years every week. If this is stability, good night! And as far as prosperity is concerned: The euro will bring prosperity to Europe. Let us look at those countries that do not have the euro and compare the development of prosperity. We will see, and there are some studies that the euro has not brought prosperity, neither for us nor for the southern countries – quite the contrary. Many say it is integration, the euro brings additional integration; that is, we are growing through the euro in Europe. – Look Once you've gone to Greece: In Greece German flags burn. The Greeks feel conquered by the Germans because we gave them 100 billion. That's what this integration looks like. And when it comes to the Fiscal Union, many other countries say exactly what they think of it – nothing at all. In other words, the euro has ultimately brought nothing. And that's why I say quite clearly: Europe does not need the euro! Those who needed the euro or believed they needed it were the southern countries. The Germans and Austrians had a schilling and a mark that had no problem. In fact, the Mark and Schilling were a concept of success. We had no problem. But there have been other countries, such as Italy or France and Spain and also Greece, which have had problems with their currency during their political and financial life. These were soft currencies, which have continuously devalued. Many don't even know that anymore. In Italy it has been possible to see how the currency has fallen. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Yes, and we can't export anything!]] And these countries wanted the euro because they believed it brought them stability. But we now know afterwards that it has not used those countries either, quite the contrary: They have suffered massive damage, as those countries, this “Club Med”, these southern countries have not been able to offset their balance of payments deficits by depreciation, as they have always done in the past. They suddenly couldn't. And at this very point we are today. We are on the point today that the southern countries cannot be helped within the euro. It's not to help them! And whoever does not believe this, look for Greece. Look You only have the following figures: We in Austria owe ourselves € 1 million in the hour – that is, from 9 a.m. to now we already owe ourselves 2 million. Greece is comparable from its size; although it has a little more inhabitants, it is about the same as economic performance. We in Austria owe in the hour with 1 million – and Greece with 10 million. 10 million! Skill You're imagining that? Ten times as much per hour! Now you're wondering: How's that going? How should Greece get on its feet? Do you think that if we, with the ESM and with the ECB and with all these aid mechanisms, put something on top of this debt mountain that someone has been helped with it? Faith You really do? – Finally, Greece will plead, and many other countries with him. And who will pay for it? – That’s the central question now. And if we continue with this ESM and with the ECB as before, we will all pay for it. Now I ask you – because it seems that nobody is shocked that we all pay for it: What would happen? They think that if, as an example, we take over all 11 000 private bankruptcys each year in Austria together, we would say: We're in charge of it! No matter who makes private bankruptcy in Austria, we are liable for it!Unknown term type: "%s".? - Would that be a common way? Faith You do? Would that be good? Do you think that's what's going to happen to those who want to do business properly? But we experience exactly the same thing in Europe, saying: No matter how you operate, we take the costs for it! We pay with our assets, we pay with our savings deposits, we pay with our insurance benefits! – Do you believe that this then causes the appropriate motivation to operate properly? - I don't think so. And that's what we're experiencing in Greece. We experience in Greece: The more we pay, the less they whistle around something. And exactly the same we will experience in Spain, Italy and everywhere. Then: If the bill finally pays another one, one will not make the same effort. This is a natural law, which applies in Austria as well as in Europe. That's why: Let us stop with this ESM, with the ECB, with this unlimited purchase of government bonds! Let's stop with the distribution of wealth from us where you think you need it! And if we want to take responsibility for all, if this is common sense here in this area, if we want to assume responsibility for all the states in Europe, then we must ask the citizens before. We have to! We cannot, we must, because the citizen will ultimately pay the bill. And I always say, Whoever pays, he must also buy! And the citizen has not yet spoken on this matter. That is why we should not make a referendum compulsory, but rather on the question: Do we want to finance all of Europe with our assets? – That is the question, and we must ask the citizen this question.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-09-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e16981	No one is reporting on this. I therefore conclude the debate. [[11:54:23]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2012-09-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e17002	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2012-09-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e17366	In addition to the communication distributed in the hall, according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure Act, I announce that the federal accounts for 2011 (III-350 of the Supplements) have been received, and I assign them to the Budget Committee. Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_2012-09-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e17391	Mr Pilz, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council and the President-in-Office of the Council for his excellent report. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the urgent question will be discussed at 3 p.m. after completion of the agenda. [[11:55:40]] Time-limitation request
ParlaMint-AT_2012-09-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e17417	I would also like to say that the Members of Parliament, Mr Pendl, Mr Amon, and my fellow Members have requested the Committee of Inquiry to clarify allegations of corruption for reporting on the decision of the National Council 910/GO of 20. ==References====External links== ==References== [[Call the BZÖ: This is inconceivable!]] [[He-Rufe at FPÖ, Greens and BZÖ and Pfui-Rufe.]] [[Call the BZÖ:Scandalous!]] [[Abg. Grosz: This is a democratic coup! This is a democratic and control coup!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: This is a democratic coup!]] [[Abg. Grosz: Unmistakable! Only to protect the ads from democracy! Just so that it doesn't have to be in front of the committee and the blacks don't have to be exposed to their East business!]] [[Further calls at BZÖ, FPÖ and Greens.]] In addition, this is the case of five delegates, according to § 43 para. 3 the request made by the Rules of Procedure to hold a brief debate on this request for a time limit. Since this meeting called for urgent debate on a written question, the brief debate will follow. The vote on the request for a deadline will take place after the end of this debate. [[Abg. Grosz: This is a democratic coup!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: That's never happened before! That's unique!]] [[Abg. Brosz: Rules of Procedure!]] Mr Brosz spoke on business treatment. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-09-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e17551	Mr President. They have just announced the deadline for the government groups. I would like to say the following: This request contains a complete innovation, which has not even been debated in the first place, namely a period of time until 21. September – this is the day after tomorrow. [[Call at BZÖ: This is inconceivable!]] This procedure further restricts the rights of the Rules of Procedure, because § 43 of the Rules of Procedure provides that there is the possibility of extending a time limit already set, namely if the National Council before its expiry – I emphasize: before its expiry! – adopts a decision on this matter. That would have meant: The next plenary session would have been scheduled for each normal procedure. And if the negotiations in the Committee of Inquiry had shown that there was another need, there would have been the possibility, with the special meeting of the National Council – whether individual or opposition – of extending the deadline before the end of the deadline to allow for further negotiating items and negotiating days. This decision will open the way for itself. This means that from 21. No special meeting can take place on September. It would not be enough to introduce a desire to do so immediately. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: This is a democratic coup!]] This proposal is unbearable for democracy, and I would ask you to interrupt the sitting and call the club members to a stand-alone address to clarify how this proposal can continue to be handled.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-09-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e17599	Further word on business treatment: Mr Ing. Hofer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-09-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e17624	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! We are, in fact, incompetent. We wouldn't have expected you to do something like that. They thereby cause serious damage to parliamentarianism in Austria. [[Congratulations with FPÖ, Greens and BZÖ.]] Of course, we are aware that the SPÖ cannot be happy with the fact that an official Federal Chancellor is quoted in the U Committee. Of course, it is clear to us that you, Mr Bundeskanzler, do not like to come to the U Committee because of the accusations that are now being made, even if you say you would accept an invitation. I understand the party political from the SPÖ – you do everything to prevent this – but I do not understand the ÖVP. I don't understand her! [[Abg. Grosz: The East Businesses!]] They only allow this U-committee to be turned off. I can only say that you are most harming yourself, because the Austrians will rightly ask themselves: Why are these parties not interested in information? Mr President, I call for a partsession to be suspended so that we can discuss and the convening of a special presidial.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-09-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e17664	Further word on business treatment: Mr. Klubobmann Bucher. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-09-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e17689	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Austria has reached the lowest point. [[Abg. May. Kogler: (in the direction of SPÖ and ÖVP) You already have the conscience in Gully, not even in the wardrobe!]] I think such a thing is unique – a democratic coup right here in Parliament. [[Congratulations with BZÖ, FPÖ and greens.]] There you can see with what coldness red and black this country is taking hostages and preventing any reconnaissance and exclusion of future corruption. Now we originally had all the interest in – there was an all-party request in this matter – to clarify all that we called misunderstandings, one more, the other less. And now, from one day to the next, it's all being pushed aside! [[Abg. May. Kogler: refusal of work!]] We do not even have the opportunity to write a written report on the “most successful investigation committee of the Second Republic” – under quotation marks – but it is all being dealt with orally in a very short time here in the House. I appeal to the conscience of red and black – to the conscience of red and black – to push this proposal to the side in the interests of the people and the Republic of the Republic, and not to allow it, because everything else, ladies and gentlemen, means an approval of this request: [[Abg. Strache: Which conscience?]] Investigation committee turned off, no interest in information, corruption can continue. We are now now also for a special presidial and a treatment.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-09-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e17768	Ladies and gentlemen. I would just like to make a formal observation on the three speeches so far, that a request by Mr Ing. Mr Hofer, who has now been supported by Mr Klubobmann Bucher, is present, but you know exactly, Mr Ingenieur, that the request for a session interruption for a presidential is not allowed. – That of good order, because we want to move on the basis of the Rules of Procedure. [[Abg. May. Kogler: This is an inspiration!]] – “Inspiration” I understood, but that’s not a request. That is where we agree, Mr Kogler. [[Abg. May. Kogler: You explain what everyone knows, but you do not explain what is in need of explanation!]] Mr Klubobmann, Dr. Cap, is next spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-09-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e17816	I would like to make it clear to you that I am already surprised that the statements of speech never indicate that there is also a functioning judicial system in Austria, that in all these cases the judicial system has developed appropriate activities, that we have full confidence, and that therefore there is no accusation that there is a cover-up here. [[Calls for Greens, BZÖ and FPÖ]] [[Members of the Greens shall keep records, each bearing the name of a Member of the Government Party, and the following: “a voice for cover-up and for information”;]] [[Abg. Grosz: This is cheap!]] But what you didn't tell us is that today, early in the morning, there was an attempt by us to find a solution here. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the Greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Moser: Shrew!]] We have presented you with a timetable for the meetings, we have also presented you with a list of information subjects, and we have essentially presented what we wanted already weeks ago and what was not voted on at that time in the Committee of Inquiry and under the chairman Moser. As for this blockade and the whole discussion, which basically started before the summer and where in the public there is the impression that here – and there are many who say, perhaps of all, including the three opposition parties – there is no longer any longer the will of this investigation committee to continue, this impression will be reinforced by you. [[Calls for Greens, BZÖ and FPÖ]] [[Abg. Oils: Shroud! I'm sorry!]] If you are trying to abuse a committee of inquiry here, just to gain an advantage from opposition policy, then everyone should take a look at it. At any rate, we have presented a detailed plan for the continuation of this Committee of Inquiry and want the approval of all three opposition parties. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: See you in the morning?- Oh, my God!]] If you refuse to go here, want to chaotize and therefore signal that you are not interested in finding a continuation, it is more honest if we say here, then we just stop him. But then I'll tell you something: If there should ever be a committee of inquiry – for this I recognise, because we have always been committed to it – then he needs a new Rules of Procedure, because this Rules of Procedure provokes a dispute whenever a committee of inquiry approaches the end. [[Ironic cheerfulness and intermediate calls for Greens and BZÖ]] [[Abg. Grosz: A red coupist!]] [[Further call-ins]] It doesn't make any sense. In the German Bundestag it works, here it does not work. [[Abg. Strache: Where it concerns you, it doesn't work because then you want to turn it off as soon as it concerns the SPÖ!]] Of course, you are co-responsible by the opposition parties. That is why I say to you: Voices If you accept this request that we have tabled, we shall withdraw this deadline.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-09-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e17958	Mr Klubobmann's head is next spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-09-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e17982	Mr President. High house! In fact, it is very unfortunate that the Committee of Inquiry, which for many months has decided on the basis of consensus and has taken decision-making decisions, has suddenly faced difficulties before the summer, which has already been debated in sufficient time, also around the Presidency, with regard to the requests, non-approvals, but decisions, protocol amendments and much more, which after many months of consensus has finally led to the fact that this committee could no longer function regularly and properly. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: “Urlostlich”?- Oh, my God!]] [[Abg. Strache: But now there is no pretext after the resignation of Mrs President!]] We, the government parties, today - after long discussions also on the last day - presented to the opposition parties a proposal for a continuation of this committee on the basis of date proposals and also cargo proposals, where before the summer there was a four-party consensus on the dates, in the load lists after all, the consensus of three parties, i.e. not only the government parties. And today it is no longer possible at once! Although there was a greater consensus before the summer, it is no longer possible to find a consensus on the continuation of the Committee on the basis of the same proposals. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: That's not true!]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: Wrong again!]] Ladies and gentlemen! The five dates we have proposed here are exactly those - of course time-consuming - on which there has already been an agreement between four parties of this House, and today this is no longer possible. [[Abg. Blow: Without witnesses!]] That means, my Ladies and gentlemen, this proposal for a deadline has been tabled, and there is, of course, the possibility of reaching agreement on this proposal by the afternoon until the start of the debate. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: blackmail is called this!]] I must also correct Mr Brosz with regard to the Rules of Procedure. It is not the case that there is no longer any possibility of extending this committee. If you read § 45 of the Rules of Procedure, you will see that there is: ‘If a committee of inquiry cannot report in writing within a time limit set in accordance with § 43, it shall, at the next meeting of the committee of inquiry or its alternate, return an oral report on the activity to date.’ — The alternate in the case. [[Abg. Oillinger: And who's the waitress?]] And now it comes: ‘In the absence of a new deadline for the submission of a written committee report by the National Council, the activities of the Examining Committee shall be terminated.’ [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Yeah! There is no more meeting!]] So there is probably the possibility of setting a new deadline even after the deadline has expired, if one could agree on an acceptable procedure. So it's not right what you quoted. That's not a final end.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-09-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e18131	There are no longer any further statements on business treatment, which are essentially already contributions to debate, which are usually also carried out in the Presidential. We are therefore going into the agenda. [[Abg. Grosz: No interruption?- Oh, my God!]] Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2012-09-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e18158	A consensus was reached between the members of the presidential conference on the duration of the debates. Accordingly, a day block time of 4 ‘Vienna hours’ has been agreed, so that the following speaking times arise: SPÖ and ÖVP per 58 minutes, FPÖ 50, Green 42 and BZÖ 40 minutes. For the duration of television transmission in ORF 2 after the current hour and the current European hour, the following statement was agreed: Federal Chancellor 6 minutes, Vice Chancellor 6 minutes, one speaker round with 7 minutes each, word message State Secretary Dr. Lopatka 3 minutes, one speaker round with 6 minutes each, returns 80 minutes. Of these 80 minutes, 50 minutes remain available, so that we need to change this Rules of Procedure after decision has been taken. The President-in-Office of the Council shall, after consultation with the presidents of the club, distribute the remaining speaking time to the five political groups at the latest before the end of the final round, in such a way that all political groups will be able to speak evenly during the television period. Any actual corrections will only be made after the television period. According to § 57 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure, to limit the speaking time of each Member of Parliament to 10 minutes per debate without a club membership. We shall now proceed to the vote on the speaking time just presented. If you join the proposal, I ask you for a sign. – This is unanimously accepted. [[12:11:07]] 1. Point Declarations by the Federal Chancellor and the Deputy Chancellor pursuant to Article 19(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Council concerning the appointment of a new Secretary of State
ParlaMint-AT_2012-09-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e18213	We're coming to the 1st. Agenda item. Following these statements, a debate will be held within the meaning of Article 81 of the Rules of Procedure, in accordance with the request made by five Members. I now give the floor to the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany to make a statement. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-09-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e18248	Mr President. Dear Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! Today, at the current hour on European policy, we have discussed in detail an aspect, the aspect of the protection shield and the aspect of debt management and the differences within the euro area. This alone shows that the importance of Austria's position and commitment to Europe's issues is of particular importance – both in the present and in the future. Now the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and for Europe had in important In addition to Mr Vice-Chancellor and Foreign Minister, the Ministry responsible for matters has in the past been a State Secretary, who has been very committed to European policy, to international politics, where Austria is voting in order to make clear what is important to us Austrians: on the one hand, on questions of neutrality and peace, on the other hand, on essential issues of economic and social development in the world and in Europe in particular. And I would therefore like to take the opportunity to thank Dr Wolfgang Waldner, who has been the State Secretary so far, very much for his work. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] And I would like to welcome Dr Reinhold Lopatka to a Federal Government that is committed to European policy issues, but also to all other international issues, at a time when Syria, the Middle East, Iran and many other countries are also concerned about the further development of peace in the world, at a time when there is much to be restored in European policy, also in the euro zone, which has not yet been taken into account in instruments, tools and rules on the grounds of the euro zone – the honourable Member has pointed it out today – in a time with a wealth of important tasks. This German government has agreed well in international politics in the Austrian representation before, has discussed the positions and then jointly represented the voice of Austria and the strength of this country. I am convinced that State Secretary Lopatka will also make this outstanding in our team, and I warmly welcome him.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-09-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e18302	I would like to thank the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany. I now give the floor to Mr Vice-Chancellor. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-09-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e18326	Mr President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! High house! I am very pleased that Reinhold Lopatka took a seat on the government bank. For more than a year now, he has been one of the ODP's MPs and European and foreign policy spokespersons, who has also gained experience in this very important area of responsibility in the House. He's got government experience. He was twice State Secretary, has taken on various functions, and he is primarily one: a marathon runner, and therefore he knows endurance belongs to his program. And I am very pleased that he will now support me as a State Secretary. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Strache: Deeply connected in personal friendship!]] Reinhold Lopatka will represent me in New York, in Brussels, at international conferences, at all hot spots in the world, and he will also work with me to promote the European dialogue in Austria. We will focus particularly next year in the form of an intensive dialogue with the citizens in the various Town Hall meetings that we have already begun. This is necessary because, of course, we need to continue the discussion on Europe's issues with the citizen, especially now that we are discussing a lot about Europe. However, I would also like to acknowledge at this point that the coalition partner Wolfgang Waldner has also learned to appreciate as a State Secretary, who has done a lot for Austria in the past, and on many international occasions Austrians have very well represented us, and I would also like to thank him warmly for his commitment from this point of view. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, let me say a few words about European policy, especially from the current point of view. I believe that what we need so much in Europe and also in Austria, is that we get away from the crisis and from talking about the crisis and about the future agenda of this continent and of this Europe that we expect to bring us a good future. This future agenda is mainly determined by the question of how we can achieve growth on this continent. All effort is therefore necessary to enrich the growth agenda in particular with proposals. We have put in place a proposal for a growth and innovation fund to intervene in the next financial period, which is intended to support small and medium-sized enterprises in particular. And I'm already at the point: There we need growth. Those who work as entrepreneurs are those who now need our back strengthening and also support with financial resources, including from the European Union. – An important task that we will focus on. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] A second point is, of course, to pay particular attention to the stability of the euro. I am glad that there is clarity in Germany now. With Karlsruhe's decision, we have now also guided the continuation of the ESM's provisions in the right direction for Germany and therefore for Europe as a whole. And that's good, because we have to stick to our agenda. Fiscal Pact – that is, every country must also do its homework, put its own budget back in order. And ESM – this is a lifeguard for those who need bridging aid. Both are necessary, and we now have both in a water, where it can work. Let's be glad about it! I am very glad that this question has now been resolved in Germany. The third thing is: Of course, we also need to talk about the future agenda in the direction of a change in the Treaties. I have completed a paper with my ten foreign ministers on Monday evening, which can be a basis for discussion, how to streamline institutions, how we can concentrate more on better rules for the future, which also have bites, even if it is necessary to deal with someone who does not want to comply with the common rules, and which also provides access to how to ensure a better democratic legitimacy in Europe. That is also necessary. There can be no one against it if one also introduces opportunities, for example in the European elections, to elect the President of the Commission directly. Then he would not be someone who is simply created by 27 Heads of State or Government together, but someone who has the confidence of the European population, which I would all prefer. I am convinced that if we do, it will also have more weight because it is directly borne by the trust of citizens in Europe. That is why I am allowed to bring these aspects of a European debate into the debate today. It opens the debate on the future of Europe. We will now be presenting a report by the four Presidents to the European Council in autumn. What can you do with the current rules? What do we have to do to establish new rules? I very much hope that at the end of the year, as we have discussed this in Austria, also in the Federal Government, a convention will be set up on a future perspective for Europe, where all, civil society, parliamentarians at national and European level and governments are involved. This is the right procedure, and in this way to communicate it to the citizens too, Reinhold Lopatka, together with me, will also be on the road strongly in Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-09-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e18384	I would like to thank Mr Vice-Chancellor. We are going into the debate on the statements and we will come to the first round of speakers with 4 minutes each. Mr Hübner. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-09-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e18411	We also congratulate and congratulate the new “old” State Secretary on returning to the government bank. I hope that this will not only be an exciting experience, but also a rather successful one. On the one hand, there are, of course, some concerns as to whether this new function will be exercised in the same way – unfortunately, I must critically predict – as Austrian interests demand. It is not about upgrading or closing up the EZA office in Ouagadougou, I believe that these are not our topics, but, as the Vice-Cancecian said, the issue is now the future of our community, our population in Europe. If we give up, do we lose an autonomous state that can determine itself, at least in important things, or not? We're at a point where we're leaving a hard currency zone. We are used to it, at least since the hyperinflation policy of 1919/20, that our savings funds, our money is somehow secured. That ends now. All decisions shall be taken to increase the amount of money without limitation. Our savings, of which it has always been said that they would be secured in Europe, our pensions, our pension provision, our pension funds, where it has always been called, we need the euro to secure it, melt into it. We have real interest rates, which are extremely negative, are paid for savings assets below one percent. The inflation rate – not the felt but the observed – of the weekly purchase is almost 5 percent. That's all I need to say. We have heard a lot about this issue today, many wrong things, some right things too, but one is certainly wrong, and there is now an application for this right on our part. Mr Krainer, in particular, has devoted himself to this issue and has meant that it would be somewhat stoned that the liability contributions of the States can no longer be extended, we do not need to talk about it at all, and he does not understand more or less Karlsruhe. – Yes, it is because it is only up to Article 8 para. 2 of the ESM Treaty, but did not look further in the back. There are, in fact, dangerous provisions. There are Articles 11 or 42 on the adjustment of shares. Name: If I can never be held liable more than for the share, however, the shares can be postponed, and that is dangerous. We therefore have a request for the new Secretary of State at the beginning. We want us to achieve at least the standards imposed by Germany by its Constitutional Court. [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Abg. Dr. Bartenstein: billions!]] [[Quoted print version removed]] This is not an application that saves the world, but it may limit the damage a little. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-09-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e18458	The motion for a resolution tabled is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2012-09-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e18528	Next speaker: Mr. Klubobmann Dr. Cap. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-09-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e18550	Mr President. High house! The Karlsruhe judgment is actually a confirmation of the right path that the Austrian National Council has taken, because essentially it says nothing but what we have decided here in the House with our participation model after long in-depth discussions and discussions. And while the Germans or the German Bundestag still have a need for any action, we have no longer done so in this sense, but have taken into account a demand, namely that the national parliaments in this European process, which is taking place here, should not only continue to retain their importance, but that it will also be extended and that the participation of the individual national parliaments will continue to be guaranteed in the future. This is a very, very positive point. With the new Secretary of State Lopatka, which we know from the Committee on Foreign Affairs – he was a representative in charge; I am not always political in his opinion, but, I think, as far as the marathon is concerned, we already find ourselves; if he is running a little slower, we could also run together – we will have another good basis for work. With regard to the question of European policy, which has been adapted here and which I would like to mention in the 4 minutes available to me, I think it is positive that there is the possibility of a European citizens' initiative and that this will increase the scope of enlargement and perhaps also the participation and identification of peoples, because we need to be constantly careful not to become independent of the European institutions and thus to a further distance to the European population, to the individual populations, to the individual countries. That is why this element, perhaps also the possibility of direct elections to the President of the Commission, is, in particular, a very essential point. But it is very important to extend the rails of national parliaments to government representatives and Heads of Government, which will also be at the European level at the individual meetings. In this context, the fight is also important, I almost have to say – and there has also been a five-party decision here in Parliament – that is to say, the financial transaction tax, which is a very essential element, which is really to be done here. [[Abg. Bucher: If you don't think anything else, then the financial transaction tax will come!]] But there is one of the major problems for Britain. We have been the pioneers and have been able to gain many new countries and approvals at European level. This is, I believe, also an essential aspect. I do not entirely believe that the centralisation process in Europe should be so heightened that it can be concluded that one can speak in the design and structuring of our social system, such as the question of pensions and other elements of the social system. But we will certainly still have many debates and discussions on this. What we have to fight or where we have to stick to it is the question of financial market architecture, the financial market rules. In fact, this was one of the roots of the problems, the economic crisis that has been timing up into the real economy and where we must do everything we can so that it does not repeat itself in this form. So there is a large area of tasks that we have to perform and where we will certainly be involved in this. All in all, it is said: However, foreign policy is not only reductible in Europe, it is very important because it is often only a matter of debate on neighbourhood policy and European policy, but we want to continue in the Committee on Foreign Policy to continue to try to see it globally. For example, the crisis in Syria or that the Austrian government has now decided to contribute to humanitarian aid. These are very important elements, and we want to continue to make our contribution from the Committee.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-09-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e18586	Next speaker: Mrs. Klubobfrau Dr. Glavischig-Piesczek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-09-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e18608	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen, A change of government is always a good opportunity to lose a few words on the domestic situation. All the more remarkable I found the speech of Klubobmann Cap, who was unable or unwilling to lose on the current accusations, namely to turn off the Committee of Inquiry, a explanatory sentence here from the speaker's desk. And that's the dominant question today. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. New builder.]] I do not know what I find more pitiful – and I say this now because of great personal conviction –: the procedure or the justification for this total control emergency, which we now have in the Austrian Parliament. It is pathetic not even to find a proper reason for this. I would like to remind you once again of how the Committee of Inquiry has worked, which we have been able to achieve together in recent months. I would also like to quote, for example, the leaders of the political groups. Werner Amon said: “This is, I believe, my fourth investigative committee, in which I am a member. I can’t remember ever having a committee of inquiry worked as seriously, as seriously and actually as successfully as this.” – That’s what your group leader said on 11 November. July 2012, exactly six weeks ago. Similarly, Otto Pendl “I therefore believe that the work has been an excellent one so far.” They owe the public basically a statement of what the acting is supposed to be: this absolute refusal of control, a coalition of secretaries that has come together here and it is not even worth the effort to find a proper reason for what it is doing! [[Congratulations on the Greens and the Deputies of Ing. Hofer and Neubauer.]] In my view, this reveals a unique moral image of the Republic, 12, 13 months before the next National Council election: no longer capable and willing to carry out one of Parliament's most important tasks, namely the control of the government! I'm seriously asking you: Who is responsible for this now? Who has actually decided on this procedure? To submit an application and to say that this is just once the attempt to bring the opposition to reason, I can only regard it as a smooth extortion attempt, Mr. Klubobmann's head – as a smooth attempt to extortion no longer further! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: Sourry!]] Now that you have built up barricades over weeks and have asked the chairman Moser to withdraw de facto, the barricades have now collapsed – but you still have no reasonable explanation why you want to do one of the Republic's most successful educational work within two days! Know That You are quite right, and it is pathetic that you do not want to find a reasonable explanation here. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Sad!]] I do not want to hear the statement in our direction now that we are to blame for it. That is what you believe in this globe, and not only in the Austrian Republic, but not in any more, namely, that the opposition is not interested in reconnaissance. The chairman Moser, who stood before the public, where you organized a witch hunt, was subjected to political mobbing, which seeks the same. I have rarely experienced such a thing in the Second Republic: that an impeccable presidency is so diffused. Then, as a reason, the Greens are no longer interested in information, the last thing I've ever heard is really the last! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Why do we even have a government reform today, to explain this briefly? – The swamp in Carinthia has occurred due to the very persistent monitoring work carried out by a green Member and a committee of inquiry in Carinthia, but also due to an examination committee in Parliament, namely the Banking Investigation Committee. The corruption bubble in Carinthia is just overturned, and responsible handling of tax money was only possible because control work was carried out. The Banking Investigation Committee was turned off early, without the remaining witnesses being able to be loaded. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Now again!]] That's exactly the same thing you're gonna do now! [[Abg. May. Kogler: That's it!]] If we could continue the Banking Investigation Committee then we could have saved the country of Carinthia and the Austrian taxpayers a lot of damage, including material damage. You are now doing exactly the same – and that against the background of what has actually been done in this committee! I'm really sorry. We are a successful way, including together, gone until summer. The result was: a media transparency law, a good law; or the “glass party funds”, a very good law – all things where you can say you have tried here to take a new path. I ask you: Why now this turnaround to the Second Republic’s ‘Control Middle Age’? – It’s really the most pitiful thing I’ve seen for years from a government coalition.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-09-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e18744	Next speaker: Mr. Klubobmann's head. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-09-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e18765	Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Estimated Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! In general, political reporting, debate on political issues, dominates domestic policy. If you look at the newspapers that follow the media, you can see that there are mainly internal policy issues that are dealt with. Of course, this is also very important as to whether the budget is concerned, whether it is about education, transport, infrastructure, economy, social affairs, health and much more. [[Abg. May. Kogler: cover up!]] [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: cover up, keep quiet, break the word!]] And a very good way to deal with all these domestic policy challenges, ladies and gentlemen, has also led this country to be excellent compared to other countries in terms of economic strength – thanks to the performance of many skilled Austrians, but also thanks to good political conditions! [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: You are totally unbelievable!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But increasingly, ladies and gentlemen, internal policy decisions can no longer be dissociated and taken by pan-European, even worldwide, developments in the ever-increasing globalisation of our entire society. And then there will be questions of human rights, unfortunately also questions of ethnic-religious conflicts, but also of the debt and banking crisis or of weaknesses in the political system, in the above-mentioned – across the states, for example at European level – more and more about internal policy issues that we have to solve. Of course, we cannot solve all these questions alone in Austria, but only in common with other countries. That is, European and international policy – just as the Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Mr. Vice-Chancellor and Mr. State Secretary, says: “Federal Ministry of European and International Affairs” – is gaining increasing importance for security and also for the prosperity of people here in Austria and also worldwide. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber.]] I would like to thank you, Mr Foreign Minister, in particular for your enormous commitment, and also you, Mr Bundeskanzler, for your enormous commitment to international issues on the international stage, in order to solve precisely these European and worldwide issues within the meaning of the Austrians. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Insertion can also!]] And I would like to thank the former State Secretary Wolfgang Waldner very much for his work in strengthening Austria's relations with other countries, Austria's international relations, in the sense of our country. [[Abg. May. Kogler: At least he didn't advertise!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Similarly, Reinhold Lopatka will carry out this work as a new State Secretary in the sense of these international good relations, in the sense of this international networking. It is with Reinhold Lopatka that a man comes to the government or is already present in the German government, which is well suited for this office both from his professional qualifications and from his political experience and from his personal integrity. Dear Reinhold Lopatka, I wish you all the best in this function! We will support you as much as we can. You have the best support with us at the ÖVP Club and, I am sure, also beyond the borders of the Parliament club here in the High House. We look forward to a good cooperation with you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-09-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e18892	Next speaker: Mr. Klubobmann Bucher. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-09-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e18914	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, government conversion – due to the call of the Lower Austrian head of state! Mr. Vice-Chancellor Spindelegger! You mentioned the importance of Austria within the European Union, and you also mentioned the image of Austria at international level. But: If you are serious about the fact that we are not harming ourselves solely because of the political circumstances in our country, and if you are also convinced that we should preserve our reputation at European level and that we should not be constantly exposed to what the Chairman of the GRECO Committee on Austria said, namely that Austria is a corruption case, then, Mr Vice-Chancellor, it would be good for you to give your own Members in the House today the task not to turn this investigation committee off and, above all, to decide not to set time limits. [[Abg. May. Kogler: That's it!]] [[He was in favour of the BZÖ and the Deputies Mag. Kogler, Mag. Stefan and Neubauer.]] Then: Anything else you do, Mr Vice-Chancellor, would be unbelievable! They cannot always stand as the “fine Maxi” in front of Austria, as the “Oberdiplomat”, which is about the well-being of Austria, which is about Austria’s reputation at international level, and then play the gripper when it comes to allowing further corruption in Austria and not creating appropriate political instruments to prevent corruption in the future. Do this on request and call the opposition! Go to our page, swivel on our page! We want to make it clear honestly that we do not want to cover anything, we want this successful committee of inquiry to find its continuation and that all those who have something to hide or conceal are invited to this committee of inquiry, my dear friends. Ladies and gentlemen! [[I should like to congratulate the BZÖ and the Greens.]] One more thing, Mr. Vice-Chancellor: Perhaps you can go to clause with Mr Pröll's head of state and clarify a crucial question, because the new Secretary of State should also be responsible for Europe's issues. And that's... We have made the proposal to involve the people in the question of Europe. We really want this. And now you're making a popular survey on the 20th. January. What is more obvious, Mr. Vice-Chancellor and Mr. Bundeskanzler, than on the 20th. Not only do they allow a question to be asked to the public, but they ask the people five questions on which they have to vote.- Oh, my God! The crucial question, too, whether we should maintain and co-finance Austrians' liability for the pleite countries and also for the pleite banks in the future should also be there. [[Interference of Federal Minister Dr. Fekter.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Josef Auer.]] Please also trust yourself to go this way, to involve the people and to ask if they want to! We would have to ask other crucial questions, as you do not wish to solve these questions at government level and to present other questions to the population. This effort you made on 20 July. Whether you ask a question or ask five questions, they always cost you a lot. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] In Vienna it was possible to present five questions to the population. Why is this not possible at Austrian level, throughout the country? It is crucial that ladies and gentlemen, if you are talking about trying to find a solution at European level, take the population with you. It's not against the people. It's only going for a while, but the next elections are coming, and then you're history.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-09-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e18984	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-09-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e19006	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! I am pleased to be able to speak here briefly in my new capacity as State Secretary at the Federal Ministry of European and International Affairs. This function is seamlessly linked to my work which I was able to do in Parliament last year. As a foreign and European spokesperson, I have addressed precisely the questions that will now be my daily work. What's my job? – Of course, it is urgent to give the best possible support to foreign ministers abroad. A task will be at the heart of this – as Parliamentarians have rightly mentioned –: [[Abg. May. Kogler: The protection of Erwin Pröll!]] Europe will be at the centre of our work, because, Mr Kogler, we must not allow this peace and prosperity project to be reduced to a financial place in need. Europe, my Honourable Ones Ladies and gentlemen, there are very big challenges. In the case of an ageing and shrinking population, we must do everything we can to ensure that this Europe remains competitive in order to maintain this prosperity model that we have in Europe in the future. That is what I want to work for, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] However, the financial and sovereign debt crisis has also shown one thing, namely that we need reforms. There will be this Convention and, of course, a corresponding vote within the population. What must be our goal? - Strict bill, good friends. What do I mean by that? – Foreign Minister Spindelegger described it by that we need a Europe with bites. That's why: Solidarity yes, but at the same time we must be able to demand from those countries that need our help and demand that they carry out profound reforms and also show the corresponding savings will. Austria has the right focus in foreign policy. Where are our priorities? – In the neighborhood, in the immediate and the expanded. We are well positioned when it comes to the Western Balkans, the Danube region, the Black Sea region, also around North Africa or the Middle East. And, of course, we must maintain the relations which were very important to us especially in the post-war years, the transatlantic relations, also accordingly. But new important countries will be added to it for us, the so-called emerging economies. When I think of Brazil, Russia, India, China or Turkey, there are large growth markets, there are future markets. We need to benefit from these in the interests of jobs here in Austria, because we deserve 6 out of 10 € by export, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: 2 of 10 €!]] I am also very important – Mr Cap has mentioned this – that Austria retains its multilateral commitment. We have a great tradition of the peacekeeping efforts of our soldiers. But Austria is also a country that has made an above average contribution in recent years, especially when it comes to human rights issues, in the international community, for example in the Human Rights Council. In development cooperation, we need to work together to provide more resources for the designable EZA. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I will therefore go to this work with great commitment. Whoever supports me is welcome. I hope it's as many as possible.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-09-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e19068	Almost 3 minutes per speech is available for the next round of speakers. I'll give you a short bell sign after 2.5 minutes and ask for a short end, then everyone will come. Mr Neubauer came to speak. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-09-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e19092	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! The Federal Chancellor must have a relatively high capacity for suffering in this Republic if he is already satisfied with this foreign policy, as it has been operating in recent years, because one cannot be said of this foreign policy, namely that it is actually perceived in the public. It is essentially limited, and this has once again been emphasized by Mr Spindelegger, Mr Spindelegger, to an EU-wide policy, where the orders from Brussels are received and where, from Brussels, Austria is to explain what can and should be done here in Parliament or not. Mr Spindelegger himself said today that he is now going around Austria and will try to raise the mood for this EU in so-called Town Halls. – Well, we wish him good luck. I don't think this will work. The development in Europe just looks different, but we will see what is happening to us. The actual foreign policy in recent months and years has made no one else than the President of the Federal Government and the Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, of which we are all aware; for one thing the President of the Federal Government has shown us in recent months, namely that he has designed this foreign policy, no matter where he goes, and has acted without consultation with the Austrian Federal Government. In South Tyrol, he meant, hanging around with an order – no one in South Tyrol knows what he has ever done for this country – he does not want to know the defence function of Austria in the Constitution. I do not know how he comes to this, although the head of state of South Tyrol has written to the Federal Government that he wants to do so with the country of South Tyrol. This week he congratulated us on finding that he would have a positive effect on Bulgaria's accession to the Schengen Agreement. There is nothing to hear from the Austrian People's Party. This is obviously the foreign policy I have mentioned, it is not perceptible in the public. Mr Lopatka: The start, Mr. Cot, was not necessarily happy. You have let us know something about Austrian domestic policy, in Brussels you have told us what you do not approve of the Faymann government, you have informed us that you really want to see the Austrian pension scheme in a European context. We, as a liberal, as a social home party, cannot, of course, support it at all. I would like you to actually relive the Austrian foreign policy, that you actually use the institutions that are in Vienna, from the UN to the OSCE, to give Austrian foreign policy a certain importance in world history.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-09-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e19134	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Muttons. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-09-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e19156	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! We have already debated Europe in great detail and, of course, I very much welcome it, Secretary of State, if you would like to apply for the Europe project more fully. But I don't think the question is: Europe yes or no, but the question of how Europe should look and what Europe we want: Do we want to play a part in the economy and banks, or do we make it possible to secure the social achievements of our citizens? Europe is also facing major challenges externally – the upheavals in the Arab region, the war in Syria, the wavering nuclear conflict between Iran and Israel are facing enormous security issues and tasks. Countries such as Tunisia, Egypt, but also Libya have taken important steps in recent months towards greater democracy and rule of law. These are very positive developments. However, recent events also show how fragile and explosive the security situation is there, i.e. an ideal environment for organisations that are instigating violence and want to further destabilise the countries. Our response to these outbreaks of violence can only be followed by a consistent follow-up of the support measures of our Arab partners in the democratic process. It is important for us to be able to do so, because the failure or failure of these processes is essential to our safety. The EU's North Africa policy is not the sole issue of the French and Italians, as you said in an interview. I think Austria enjoys a lot of confidence in the Arab region because of its neutrality. This neutrality, which is by no means obsolete, and the fact that we have never been to colonial power in this region, are qualities which are recognized in the Arab region and do not, for example, possess France and Italy. We can also make real use of our neutrality, in the sense of a pan-European security strategy, vis-à-vis the Arab region. In this sense, I wish you all the best and hope for good cooperation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-09-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e19198	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Korun. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-09-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e19219	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen in front of the screens! Normally, the appointment of a new Secretary of State is the occasion to discuss its field of work, to exchange and to talk about internal policy in general. There would be a lot to say, because we need an active foreign policy, which not only has economic interests in mind, but also human rights, sustainable development, development cooperation and much more. There was an increase in the number of workers The state of the Federal Government is also different from that of the German Government. Finally, we also currently have an integration state secretary, who misunderstands integration so much that he advocates a sustainable separation of students from childhood and demands parallel classes instead of integration – and, and, and. [[Call to the ÖVP: Misunderstanden!]] But what you are doing in Parliament today with this action, with the insolent attempt to turn off the committee of inquiry, which you have recently promised on the green clover, with all the means and without shame as soon as possible, unfortunately, this attempt does not make it possible to discuss foreign policy or development cooperation here and now. Here and now we need to discuss this attack on parliamentarianism. They have obviously acted as government fractions according to the motto “an end to terror is better than a terror without end” – where weekly corruption is followed, where witnesses are invited and where the entire anti-corruption sum, in which you have lived as government parties so far, and two opposition parties have partly been involved. And now, with an attempt to extortion, you're trying to get through with an insolent extortion attempt to just turn the investigation committee off by saying the opposition: Fresh or dead! Either the opposition is to accept that there are only more than five meetings and that in the pig galop, as the Gabi Moser has correctly formulated, topics are being hunted by the committee so that no information is possible, or you make a deadline with the date tomorrow. Ladies and gentlemen in front of the screens! This is a death blow for parliamentarianism! How can the representatives of the government groups SPÖ and ÖVP commit themselves to serving as the leaders of the Federal Government, a cover-up federal government whose only task seems to be to turn off the investigation committee at the moment? – We will resist. We will not like this as elected parliamentarians – nor will the people. [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grosz.]] Last sentence, Mr President: The citizens are not as stupid as you believe! [[Call the Greens: So it is!]] No one understands outside that the successful investigation committee should be turned off. On the other hand, we will resist with all our strength, together with the Austrian population! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-09-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e19275	Next speaker: Mr Bartenstein. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-09-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e19297	Mr President. Members of the Federal Government! But above all, Mr Reinhold Lopatka! With you, someone has been appointed as the Secretary of State for Europe, who is sure of his step on the international parquet and who has met Brussels as his second home. You will be very well represented by Austria's interests there, of course together with the Federal Chancellor, the Vice-Chancellor and Foreign Minister, the Minister of Finance. But you just have the European Secretariat of State as the main task, and I and we face this task with great optimism. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Angela Merkel said that the decision of the Karlsruhe Court in favour of the ESM was a good day for Germany. It was also a good day for Austria, ladies and gentlemen. I believe that it has been made sufficiently clear today that we have made certain progress towards the ruling in Karlsruhe that, without the Minister of Finance, without Parliament, nothing goes beyond €19 billion, and that is a good thing. We can also take note in these weeks of seeing at least something like a silver strip on the horizon as regards the stabilisation of financial markets. The ESM has been received positively. The European Central Bank's purchases on the secondary market also show respect for the possibility under strict conditions. I also welcome the fact that there are more positive votes for a common European banking supervision than negative, even here in Austria. But we are aware of this: This will be a hard drilling of thick boards. The withdrawal of the countries of Europe around the Mediterranean, the stabilisation of financial markets will take years. Austria is in solidarity with Club Med, but Austria also wants solidarity with the payers, so with us. “Strenge bill, good friends,” said Reinhold Lopatka. I guess that's how it's understood. So we say yes to liability, but we also say yes to more control of those who need our help. If Europe's Foreign Minister, under the cooperation of Michael Spindelegger, has presented something that will bring us closer to a new European Convention, this is important and right because we know that the Europe of the future needs a lot more integration – on the basis of a convention, on the basis of an Austria that will also become stronger in a strong Europe.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-09-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e19345	Next speaker: Mr Grosz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-09-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e19366	High house! On this change of government and the events of today's day: How do you intend to signal foreign policy in Europe and worldwide if you allow a sort of democratic and control coup in this House today? What do you want to signal to the countries of Europe and the world if we are unable to keep our own house clean? [[Call the BZÖ:Model!]] Yes, what a devastating signal to the economic markets, to all the other countries in which we are at the centre of Europe, if you once again signal the disclosure page by this decision to turn off the investigation committee: Yes, we are corrupt! Yes, we want to continue in this state of affairs! This is an insanity that you are delivering today from this Parliament with this unbearable attempt to turn off the investigation committee! We cannot take part in this – in the interests of Austria’s domestic reputation, of politics towards the Austrians, but also in the interest of Austria’s reputation in the world, where we should be proud that we have clarified the last 30 years “Noricum”, AKH, “Consum” pleas, “Lucona”, BAWOG refreshments, BAWAG. There is a whole scapegoat that has accompanied this republic over the past 30 years. [[President Dr. Graf takes over the chairmanship.]] If we do not finally leave this time behind, ladies and gentlemen, what good is a new Secretary of State at the Foreign Office which should support the Vice-Chairman of a failed party if we are not even able to give out seriously to the outside image of a clean, transparent republic? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Book]] If today you are not even able to say: Yes, we allow control in this House!, what is the use of a government reform, in which you have a former black State Secretary following a corrupt ÖVP Council, and today you are installing a new State Secretary? Faith You really think this is the signal that Austrians expect from a policy of humility? - No, that's the wrong signal! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Col. Lopatka can rejoice: He's got his diplomat passport again. [[Abg. Bucher: That's the reason!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: That's the only reason!]] We know and can remember, and the remark is quite acceptable to me – he also laughs; this is not a personal insult – as he here defended the diplomat passports for the parliamentarians, for the Members and for the members of the government. Now he has a diplomat passport again and can return to Hartberg without customs control when he travels home. All right, I would like to congratulate my colleague, Mr. State Secretary at the Lopatka Foreign Office, former State Secretary in the Financial Area, former State Secretary in the Sports State Secretariat. The secretary for all cases will now also help Foreign Minister Spindelegger to protect the ÖVP from the total crash, but I believe: You're going to be very unsuccessful. However, I already have an assignment to the Secretary of State for External Affairs, which is a very serious task. The Austrian foreign policy of recent years has not been marked by the fact that we have shown courage. Austrian foreign policy was not marked by the fact that we had not only maintained the genuine course towards Brussels, but also in the interests of human rights. I have a mission to the new Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, because the Vice-President and Foreign Minister has not been able to find hard and clear words to this day. It is about positioning Austria in such a way that we are also a protection force for persecuted Christians worldwide. I remember today that in Iraq Christians, Christian minorities are being slaughtered, dear Reinhold Lopatka. I would remind you today that in Nigeria the Christian minority is unprotectedly brutal attacks, deadly attacks. I would remind you today that the Coptic Christians in Egypt have de facto been declared free of birds and that the so-called Arab Spring has become a brutal, deadly cull for Christian minorities in the countries of the Middle East. That is why I strongly call for Austrian foreign policy to be brave and courageous, without fear and to defend the human rights of Christian minorities and to express clear convictions as the Republic of Austria. It is also about drawing consequences in foreign policy and not supporting regimes with development funds in order to slaughter Christian minorities. There, my dear, dear Secretary of State at the Foreign Office, Dr. Reinhold Lopatka, would be more than ever needed to act, because the Vice-President and Foreign Minister has been silently silent over the last three years. We could at last work for human rights in foreign policy, but also for those religious communities, for those religious minorities in these countries, which are the majority in Austria, namely Christianity.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-09-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e19444	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Steinhauser. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-09-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e19503	Ladies and gentlemen! Clearly, this is the only possible interpretation, there is a crisis session of social democracy. Only four Members are present. Maybe the SPÖ club rebels. That's my only hope. Of course, it can also be that he has a command issue. [[Abg. Grosz: Buffet edition!]] We'll see when he comes back. Perhaps there is something like a rest of the self-esteem of social democracy. This is a field attempt that we can experience live here in Parliament today. Has social democracy been a backbone or is it done what is lonely and alone an increasingly unique clubman Cap – I mean, you probably have to smile yourself even if you hear him on TV – issued as an order? Very briefly on the subject of government reform: On the government bank, the State Secretary is obviously sitting “for ever. ” Lopatka was the State Secretary of Sports, he was in the Ministry of Finance, now he is working in the Foreign Office. Exciting was how it happened. I would like to give the best in excerpts, as was really explained in the “Small Newspaper” and how the ÖVP comes to its personnel decisions. A really good article under the heading “The ÖVP in the Almrausch” explained how the personnel decisions at the ÖVP fall. I quote: “In the Tyrolean village of Alpbach, the ÖVP has presented in the last two days how disputed and planless it is. Everyone wanted to replace each other. For now, everything remains as it is.” And now it comes: "Who's making such a mess? During the night on Wednesday, guests of a Tyrolean country gasthof are annoyed by a group that argues out loud in front of their windows. “You won’t let me go!” a man screams.” – It’s the question who that was. [[Abg. Grosz: Was that the Hooligan sector?]] This will be answered in further sequence: “The Schreibhals must be the head of the ÖVP Klubobmann Karlheinz, who is from Vorarlberg. It was – in Tyrol – a western Austrian idiot.” However, it is even thicker: “An ÖVP mandatar says: “We’re playing worse than the football national team.” I think that after the German game the comparison is inadmissible, because our team wasn't that bad at all. [[Abg. Grosz: That's right!]] That the ÖVP compares with the Austrian national team, our football team did not deserve! But it's still going on. That's where Mitterlehner and Fekter are sitting together on a stage – quote: “Mitterlehner () couldn’t have been able to hide how much they are going on his nerves and constantly twist their eyes.” We know this from Parliament; it usually does so when the opposition speaks. In that respect, we also know the relationship he has with Fekter. – In so far as the government inability of the ÖVP is concerned. We know him. I don't want to lose any more words. I would very much like to lose more words on the way in which ÖVP and SPÖ operate today. They must be agreed on every seriousness, and they have become verbal for a time. We have to look at the way in which the investigation committee has been shut down. At the beginning, there was a conflict about the Rules of Procedure. At the time, President Moser interpreted something different from the other parties. Such a thing happens more often. Moser was required to allow the application, otherwise the investigation committee would be turned off. – What did President Moser do? She said she would allow the application. [[Abg. Wheeler: Chaos!]] Not chaos! It will allow the application. Then, suddenly, it was too little. They said, "No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, No, that is not enough for us; the Moser Members must resign! Mr Moser, who had already been widely reported yesterday, did not make any excuses for putting the Presidency back. That wasn't enough again. So, and today you come with a request, the investigative committee until 21. September to end. In order to give this a kind of appearance of form, one is pretending to want to work until October and would like to deal with the Examining Committee at five committee meetings. You have to imagine this: Half of the Committee's issues have been dealt with. This took about half a year. About the same volume, ÖVP and SPÖ want to perform in five working sessions. This is a frogage of voters and delegates with their control obligation. Even prosecutor Hoffmann – he was publicly quoted – says: It is impossible for the issues to be dealt with at such a speed. You have to say, and you have to say that in the direction of SPÖ: You're doing damage maximization. That's clear. The damage is greater than you think, because it is simply about confidence in politics, it is about confidence in democracy. It also raises the question of what self-esteem SPÖ politicians have. I mean, we all know that. Parliamentary decisions are not always easy, and there are situations in which compromises can be reached as Members of Parliament and can be found in a common line. Are you going to be dictated as a member of your government banks, or is there a spark so that you can still face voters? I almost feel sorry for you, how you need to be publicly humbled and ridiculed. In fact, tomorrow's papers say you're obviously willing as a Member of Parliament. You are the humble, you are the politicians made ridiculous by your own party leaders! I mean, you will be well rewarded with around €8,000 for this, and perhaps the next time you will be put back again, but it is really a question of self-esteem. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Wenninger: You'll get them too!]] I also get 8,000 €. In contrast to you, I also work with my colleagues for this. That is the difference, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! That's the central difference between us! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] So, let yourselves be made ridiculous by your head for a 8 000 € pain money and another mandate – including the ÖVP, I thank you for the word message – and introduce it, yes or no? I hope that the rest will win in social democracy. The ÖVP doesn't understand anyone anyway. The ÖVP has now sent their scandals of opposition to the Greens for half a year. Now, where it's heading for SPÖ, you're going to make the robbers. You understand this and if you don't, no one understands you. This can be done relatively quickly. One thing is clear: As always, the conflict surrounding the committee of inquiry is the maximum damage to the Republic. And I can promise you one: We will not give any rest until the election day. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-09-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e19609	The next speaker was Mr Wenninger. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-09-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e19631	Mr. Federal Chancellor! Appreciate members of the government! High house! I would like to suggest that I am deeply impressed and admittedly a little ashamed of the late reparation that civilians have encountered in this House during the last days and even this morning. Although I have never been particularly impressed that we have been referred to by the ÖVP and the FPÖ for decades as a blackmailer, as a soft egg and a fatherland traitor, and everything has been done to make the difference, the difference between civil service and civilian service as unfavourable as possible. Nevertheless, in favour of Zig thousands of civilians, who have been doing great things for the Republic since 1974, for the people in the country: We are proud, we proved backbone at the time – and we prove it now too! With regard to the voluntary debate, which is also a Europe-wide debate, I would like to say, above all, in the direction of ÖVP: Ladies and gentlemen, voluntaryness means more than doing civil service. Voluntaryness begins with us in the country – Mr. Vice-Kanzler lives in the neighboring community – mostly by going to the football club at the age of six, with ten years to the fire brigade youth or to the bubble music and to other cultural and social clubs. And this, ladies and gentlemen, is commitment, that's Courage, and that's volunteer service for the people. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank And that is what social democracy is about in the future. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr State Secretary – he is not present now – on the European debate: I believe that, in the debate on Europe, dialogue with citizens must be very sensitive, especially in terms of what really interests people. In spring, in Austria, here in the National Council, in the Foreign Policy Committee, but also at European level, there has been a fierce debate about whether there is a “merkel-way” or a “Hollande-Weg” whether there is a way of saving or investing. In the meantime, it has been shown that both paths have to be taken parallel. We have already taken this path here in Austria under the leadership of this Federal Government before the decision of the French election. We have decided to save structurally where it is urgently necessary and to invest where sustainable economic growth creates jobs for Austrians. Mr Vice-Chancellor mentioned this idea of growth and monetary stability under the title of European dialogue today. We must not play these paths against each other, but we must take them together. In this context, I would like to recall the debate on the Commission proposal with the aim of creating 20 million new jobs in Europe by 2020, especially where sustainable jobs are created: in the field of environmental protection, health and care, but also in the telecommunications and Internet sectors. This European employment potential needs to be used better than in the past and is also promoted from European financial resources. I remember, above all, those who are always trying to play against each other, that Article 3 of the Treaty of Lisbon defines full employment and social cohesion as European objectives. Mr. State Secretary! We will have to go this way together, on the one hand, to shape the European path towards monetary stability, on the other hand, to make more sense for citizens than in the past, that the European Union is not just an economic union, not just a union of liberalization and privatisation, but a European Union with the aim of creating jobs and giving young people opportunities on this continent. This will also strengthen social cohesion in the European Union. I wish you every success in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-09-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e19697	The next speaker was Mr Scheibner. Six minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-09-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e19718	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Weninger, it is perfectly right to give you that this voluntary service is of particular importance in rural areas, and I was surprised by the military debate that those who believe that Austria's security services must necessarily be based on a compulsory obligation to forget that, for example, fire brigade – and that is a threat every day. [[Abg. Wenninger: The fire brigade is not a threat!]] [[Abg. Grosz: SPÖ is a threat!]] The threat from fire, hailing, lightning, other environmental disasters and accidents is meant. With the exception of the large cities, this fire brigade in Austria is 100 percent based on voluntaryity and works. That is actually sensational and not high enough to appreciate. Ladies and gentlemen, there is, of course, also the awareness that this is important. This is also appreciated and is also an important asset in public perception. And you already have a job here, ladies and gentlemen of Social Democracy. If you want sufficient volunteers to be found for security in the field of national defence as professional soldiers, but above all as military soldiers, who, in addition to their civil profession, provide a voluntary service for the defence of the country, you also have to see this as an important asset, and not such people as uniformly perform this service as Indian players, as suspects who are somewhere in the right corner, defamation, as unfortunately in the past. There you have to start in the family and also say in schools – as is the case with fire brigade, rescue and other voluntary organizations –: Yes, whoever puts himself, his health and, in a serious case, his life in the service of Austrian security, is not to be suspicious and somehow to be appreciated, but he is to be respected and congratulated. [[Congratulations with BZÖ and SPÖ.]] Only when we create this climate will such models that I do support also work, but one without the other is a bit difficult. Mr. State Secretary Lopatka! We were almost neighbours for a few months now, we have also talked about foreign policy. I hope you do your office very dynamic. Her predecessor was very nice, but suffered a little under the burden of the many dates and travel abroad. What we need in foreign policy is a separate line, a recognizable line of Austria. This is not so much a question of neutrality, Mrs Muttonen. I have often said to this speaker panel that, from my point of view and from the point of view of many constitutional experts, Austrian international neutrality has been carried to graves with the constitutional change in 1998 in the course of the enlarged EU accession. In the Middle East, for example, the good image of Austria is not based on neutrality – there you don't know what that is at all – but on party taking, opinion, your own line, then based on German Chancellor Kreisky, also through others in the past. This has brought the good reputation in this region, and there is now still more waiting than before for this independent position. The role of Austria as a bridge between this region, a very difficult region, and Europe would be interesting here. Only strong systems can really exert the necessary pressure when it comes, for example, to bringing conflict parties to the negotiating table. Not small, neutral states, but strong systems. And the European Union could be such a strong system if one finally agreed on a common line and the particular interests could be less important. We will not create that alone – that is not a question at all – but we can raise the voice. We should raise the vote and we should also try to create coalitions within the European Union so that not only the few large ones can buy but also the small and medium-sized countries say: We too are Europe, we too are the European Union, we also have an interest in correcting conflicts – but not as American, French and English, but really on the basis of lasting peace! In my view, this would be an independent foreign policy, for example in the Arab countries. It is here a request regarding the situation in Syria. I too have tried to make a few points. I hope that this will be brought in, because I think it would be dangerous to follow one-sidedly what others there have their interests. We must create a principle that violence should be rejected as a means of achieving political goals from the Austrian point of view, no matter who is based on this violence. If violence comes from someone, you also have to say that, whether by a regime or by other fighting groups. It must also be pointed out that there are certain principles to be fulfilled, and that one cannot see how – no matter in which country, and unfortunately there are some countries in this region – one can simply be replaced by another dictatorship, namely a secular dictatorship by a religious dictatorship. Once a Syrian writer said very clever words. He has said he rejects the Assad regime out of complete conviction, and it belongs away, but he does not want to know it replaced by an Islamic regime of which human rights are at least as disregarded as is the case now. That is why I do not understand this undivided support of one side, but it is only if we get the reasonable forces from both sides to a table to ensure a negotiated solution. This objective view could also bring Austria into this conflict. It could also be pointed out that wherever America – and I am not an anti-American – and others who have just global interests are interfering, it has always failed: from Afghanistan to Iraq over Palestine, now in Libya and in other areas. It has always failed if one tries to act not according to the principles that one has set out – namely the rule of law, human rights, the construction of democratic structures – but simply pursues other interests. To this we should oppose a silent but audible voice. That now, so to speak, as an advance hope, also for this change in the State Secretariat and overall to Austrian foreign policy!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-09-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e19776	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Cortolezis racket reported. 6 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-09-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e19798	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Estimated members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! For the Austrian People's Party, European and Foreign Policy remains an important key to the shaping of our future in Austria. Our vice chancellor has only recently shown, in recent days, that a small country can also act as a leader when it comes to shaping the future of Europe together. The eleven politicians in Europe, who together have made their way to be a think tank and to say how this Europe is becoming even more democratic, even more secure, even more prosperous, even more common values, have given us a good deal of attention. The Commission will be able to submit a proposal to the Council for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations I think we should talk more often about the proposals made by these 11 under the leadership of our Deputy Chancellor here in the House. In order to ensure that all of this goes out in time, it has proved very well in the past to have a State Secretary. At this point I would like to express my very special thanks to the Secretary of State Waldner, who demonstrated with much peace, with much persistence, with very high professionalism, with world openness that Austria can get a strong voice in Europe and internationally. I am therefore pleased that a professional politician such as Reinhold Lopatka is his successor. Reinhold Lopatka has developed a European paper with us in the last few weeks and months, which, I believe, will be the basis for him. He said in his speech today: It is a strong Europe, a stable Europe, but it is also a question of all states contributing to further development. It cannot rest one country on the success of the other, but each must make its structural reforms at home. But we're stronger together. I therefore know that this State Secretariat is in very good hands with Reinhold Lopatka, because in the coming weeks and months we will continue to deal with financial policy, economic policy, employment policy, peace policy in Europe, but also with the UN Security Council. [[Intervocations with BZÖ and Greens.]] We need double strength to push this forward, double strength necessary to secure prosperity in Europe, for what we have gained in prosperity, because others have been involved, it is now also our responsibility for the next generation. In particular, future areas such as education, research, innovation are important engines to successfully bring together employment policy, innovation policy, economic policy and stability policy. Reinhold Lopatka has already forced Europe's dialogue today. He is in favour of dialogue, and I believe that this dialogue is also needed between the European Parliamentarians and the national councillors, because in the coming weeks and months there will be many further discussions of competence: On which level can we best solve something? What can best be done in the region? What can best be done nationally? Where do we also need a stronger Europe to protect and develop our nation of Austria accordingly? In this sense, I am pleased that with Reinhold Lopatka, we also have someone who will support our Minister of Science. Education and research have always been your concern and will continue to be yours. When we remember that our scientists recruit 130 percent of what we pay as net payers in science, there is no better return of investment – I can say so business-friendly – than science and research policy. Therefore, I am pleased that you will support us in this joint future project in the European budget 2014 to 2020, that our highly competitive research can continue to contribute to the EU's growth strategy in the future and will be supported here. I also believe that a strong Europe can make a significant contribution, as only the citizens, the economy, the non-profit organizations can, together with Europe, with the citizens, the economy and the non-profit organisations. European budget and the Austrian budget ensure that the future is not only a peace-making project, but also a project that highlights prosperity, growth, security and common values. Prosperity, growth, common values, that is what this common Europe stands for. With Reinhold Lopatka, we have a strong voice for these values to be represented accordingly in the common Europe, because not the destruction is the future, but the management of the crisis and the challenge. Let us remember that 14 000 jobs a year were created with this joint European project, 14 000 of which also benefit 14 000 families. Thus, we experience this European project together, but we also design it together. All right, Reinhold Lopatka!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-09-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e19873	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Schwentner. 5 minutes are adjusted as desired. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-09-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e19894	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Dear spectators, you are more than the Members in the ranks on the left and on the right of me! I hope that you will now all reflect on your role as parliamentarians and parliamentarians, and I would now like to use the minutes here to express my disappointment about this day. [[Abg. Wenninger: Where is fungus...?]] You, Mr Wenninger, have just said: As a civil servant, you have proved that you had backbones that you were motivated that you were engaged that you were not a blackmailer. That was you as a civil servant, but obviously you are no longer a Member of Parliament! [[Abg. Wenninger: No, I'm consistent to this day!]] I am sincerely sorry, and today I am ashamed of all those who are sitting here or not sitting here and hopefully thinking about it and thinking about their role. I'm ashamed of her if they don't. Quite honestly! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Wenninger: This is under the belt line!]] No, that's not under the belt line! What you're doing here is under the belt line, I think. I came to Parliament four years ago as a Member of Parliament to make real policy and to cooperate constructively. I have experienced very often in the four years what real policy means, which means that some of you or you do like a request, but the request for which and the reasons may not be supported and will not go through. [[towards SPÖ]] [[towards ÖVP]] It's always disappointing. But today you really have arrived at a low point and you can listen to advance speeches and praises about what might happen again. But that we don't seriously deal with our role here in the house, I really find that disappointing! [[Congratulation with Greens and FPÖ.]] Then on a subject that's very busy with me: The Secretary of State – now he is still here – announced it yesterday in the “standard”, unfortunately today it was only half a sentence worth it. This is development cooperation. [[State Secretary Dr. Lopatka: 3 minutes!]] At 3 minutes – yes, but one sentence would have been worth it at least. [[State Secretary Dr. Lopatka: It was a sentence!]] You know that there is currently an action of many NGOs called “Mir Wurtz? ” “Mir wurst?” corresponds almost to what is attributed to politics and, above all, to what has been done in recent years in terms of savings in development cooperation, namely a “mir wurcht?” versus what Austria should actually impose on our partners in the developing countries. This commitment has not only been properly reduced in the medium term – that is, in terms of direct funds – in recent years, but it has not been entirely guaranteed, above all, that we are a serious partner, because there is simply no proper plan, because there is actually no concept, because we are not discussing three-year plans in Parliament until the end of the year, which are long-term pre-written. To be a serious partner in development cooperation, I would be pleased if you would take this seriously in the next few years. The Minister behind me has mentioned that the Secretary of State will soon be on the road to many hotspots. I would like these hotspots to be seen where otherwise the spot is rare, namely in the countries of the south and where we are in demand as partners. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] In other words, I am pleased if you put first signs if you continue what Mr Waldner has begun before you, namely not only a way of dialogue with many NGOs, with partners in the countries, but also in politics with all of us. If we continue the dialogue and get there is a real concept that, please, there is also a white paper in which there is no way Austria should go, and if it is guaranteed that there are these funds that we have promised internationally for many years, then you certainly have a reliable partner and partner in us.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-09-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e20011	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Worm. 5 minutes are adjusted as desired. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-09-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e20032	Mr President. Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Mr Vice-Chancellor and Foreign Minister Spindelegger introduced the new State Secretary, whom I now warmly welcome in his capacity and whom I would like a lot of Fortune for future work: [[State Secretary Dr. Lopatka: Thank you!]] The Secretary of State Lopatka will represent him, above all, where State Secretary Waldner has also worked many times, at international conferences, in European agendas, in relation to the UN, and human rights also have great importance. You, Mr State Secretary, then stressed in your statement that Europe will be at the centre of your tasks. You also mentioned the question of human rights. In addition to the UN Security Council, I would also like to draw your attention to the European Court of Human Rights. This European Court of Human Rights covers all 47 Member States of the Council of Europe. This is about the larger Europe, not about EU Europe with the 27 Member States. Here I am already at my heart, namely: How does Austria, the Austrian parliamentary delegation, represent Austria in the Council of Europe in Strasbourg? We have to take the presidency there next year, and now Albania is the Presidency. I looked at this in the news for us here in the house. There have already been a number of negotiating items relating to Albania. [[Abg. May. Kogler: But it's stupid when we're worse at corruption than Albania!]] I came from Albania on Saturday, where the whole question of domestic violence was discussed. Contact-Parliamentarians have met and have also discussed: How can we implement the Convention against Domestic Violence, Against Violence against Women? Her predecessor, Mr. State Secretary Waldner, signed the so-called Istanbul Convention in Istanbul last May. This is a massive violation of human rights, gentlemen! It is about being able to live self-determinedly means living free of violence, and that this Convention, which was imposed by the Council of Europe, has already been signed by many countries, with Austria being one of the first signatorys. I would like this Convention not only to be signed but also to be ratified. I hope that we will sign this Convention in Parliament very soon. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] What's this convention about? – Even if you find this so funny: The issue is that every fifth woman in Austria, in Europe, is being beaten in the world and that appropriate measures should be taken in this case. Austria has always played an important pioneering role, and we should continue to work there. I would like this Convention to be signed if we take over the Presidency of the Council of Europe next year, that we are the second country after Turkey, which means that non-violent living should be a matter of course. In this sense, Mr State Secretary, I wish you all the best for your task and, of course, as a Tyrolean, I would also like to draw your heart to the agendas of South Tyrol. We were in Bolzano together with the committee and we heard what the situation of South Tyrol and South Tyrol women is like. I believe – and that was also noticeable – that all those who were there have taken seriously that South Tyrol will continue to be a heart concern to us. In that sense, everything is good!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-09-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e20088	The next item is the speech by Mr Markowitz. 3 minutes are adjusted as desired. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-09-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e20110	Mr President. Dear Federal Government! High house! Mr. State Secretary Lopatka! Welcome back!, I can only say. I'm very glad you're back. Above all, I am pleased that you have praised your boss, Mr Schwindel, Mr Spindelegger, just as if you were always his wishful candidate. That's where I have to say... [[Vice Chancellor Dr. Spindelegger: What else?]] Really, what else? - You're the wishful candidate. He's missed you recently, so everyone didn't forget that. Now you have returned as the great savior of the ÖVP. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] As I just heard voices of the ÖVP: Please explain to me what State Secretary Waldner has done so great in recent years! Please, I want to hear from you two, three points now, what has been remembered. [[Intervocations at ÖVP and FPÖ.]] So nothing! That's the point, I think. Otherwise, I must remind you, Secretary of State Lopatka, that in 2010, as far as European development cooperation is concerned, in 2010 you said clearly – I did – that you are in favour of the funds also having to come from the Ministry of Finance, that the costs need to be distributed, and that, of course, the 0.34 that were planned at the time – now 0.7 percent of the government programme – are your goal. Now, of course, it can be true that development cooperation has something to do with the economic factor, and of course – Mr Scheibner has rightly addressed it – it must also be saved in this area in the administration. I would, of course, be interested in how you will see how you will do this in the future. Is it a concern for you to say, okay, you need to keep saving? To get to the 0.7 percent is currently very unrealistic; you also have to admit this and say it openly and honestly to the people. Or will you be what Mr Spindelegger has announced, namely, a hotspot State Secretary or someone who is on the move in the society? But I can't imagine that. [[Interlocutory note by Secretary of State Dr. Lopatka.]] You just said you're going a lot, you're going to travel. I would like you to be a State Secretary, who holds up the Austrian flag and stands up for us not to forget. You should not go constantly to Brussels or anywhere else and scratch under the roofs. That must not be any more in the future. Then we don't need to ask ourselves the question whether this office is necessary now or not, whether we should save on the federal government, but if we really work here – and we assume it – then you also deserve to sit here on the government bank. But one thing must not be the case: that, as we have seen today at the U Committee, the work that has been done quite well for months is just about to be stepped with feet and tried to turn away from today to tomorrow. I do not think that the Austrian people, the Parliament and all those who have worked on it have deserved it. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] We must not forget one thing: The audiences who have seen the debate today ask themselves: What's going on? Why do you want me to pick another one sitting in there? Then we don't need to be surprised when new parties like the Schwammerl grow out of the ground and many who sit here rightly say that the Federal Government belongs to question. So I would really like us to return to the policy of matters, that we really work here in the sense of Austria and not take place this hiding and cover-up policy as it is currently doing the Federal Government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-09-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e20174	Mr Grillitsch has been mentioned as the next speaker. 6 minutes are adjusted as desired. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-09-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e20196	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! But, in particular, Mr State Secretary! I am very glad that today I can also say that it was the Austrian People's Party, which has always taken clear positions for a strong Europe, for a Europe of stability, for a Europe of security and for a Europe of peace. And I am also very glad that we, as Austria, have made a strong contribution to Europe, also with a model that comes from Austria, namely with the eco-social market economy. In fact, this is the life model of the future, that says, we need a strong economic pillar so that we can afford the two more, namely the social and the ecological. There, I think, we can also show in Austria that we have achieved a lot. 14 000 jobs per year more, ladies and gentlemen, this is not a matter of course. In addition, we have the lowest unemployment rate in Europe. Nevertheless, we all know that we are responsible for dealing with the financial problems that need to be solved with individual countries in general. We face major challenges when it comes to providing food safety in Europe, having food sovereignty in Europe, providing clean water, providing people with clean soil, and thus giving total safety to people in the regions, for example in rural regions, where it is important not only to have farmers, but where we need jobs where we need purchasing power. All of this has also been given to people in these regions in recent years, ladies and gentlemen. Therefore: What is being made available for rural areas is not just a question for farmers, but it is a question of employment, growth and economy in rural regions. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We should therefore not only constantly speak of subsidies and subsidies for farmers, but for me the payment of benefits, payments for services that society expects from farmers. And for these services they also have to receive corresponding payments. Ladies and gentlemen! We are making very successful programmes available here in Austria, together with the EU, 50 to 50 co-financed, including the EU Environment Programme, to satisfy those longings and to meet what consumers want: Transparency in production. How organic is produced in Austria? Who's producing? Where is production? – These are crucial things that people are increasingly questioning. This includes the mining programme for those who keep our landscape open under the most difficult conditions, so that it does not forest. It is the miners who actually provide the basis for a flourishing tourism in Austria. These are programmes, where we must openly discuss the added value of this agricultural production in terms of social policy, ladies and gentlemen. I think these rural programmes are a turbo for jobs and purchasing power. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Just a few figures. What are the economic effects of these programmes, such as rural development? – Value added would be reduced by 13 percent if we did not have these programs. Sales would fall by 15 percent, i.e. around €7.5 billion. The bioareas would be reduced by 25 per cent, i.e. around 500 000 hectares, ladies and gentlemen. Therefore: Let us also see the economic benefits of these programmes! It is important to really discuss the whole issue here and ultimately decide the following question: What form of agriculture do we want in Austria, do we want in Europe? Do we want a rural agriculture with family farms, with income programmes, income combinations with these programmes of the public sector, or do we want industrialized agriculture where genetic engineering is allowed and anything else? That is what we must decide, and we must give an answer to that, quite openly and honestly, so that people also have security. That is why I tell you today, I am glad that Reinhold Lopatka is sitting back in the State Secretariat, as a voice of Europe, as one who knows where he comes from, from a region, from Hartberg, a vital region that has also developed a lot for the future because of these programmes. He is a Steirer, so he comes from a country of great diversity – from the Dachstein, from the glacier to the grape juice – he is an Austrian with body and soul and with heart. Reinhard Lopatka, you're the voice of Europe! You are the voice you have to take out of the regions to Europe, but you also - we should all do, not just you - constantly explain to the people of Europe what we have from Europe.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-09-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e20274	The next speaker was Mr Oellinger. 5 minutes are set. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-09-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e20295	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Lopatka, I do not know if I would really have liked this day for the introduction of office in your place. Lopatka comes – Investigation Committee goes. To bravo! This will inevitably also be associated with your name and also the mood inside. [[Abg. Dr. Bartenstein: This is a causality!]] Sorry! Praise? Yes, if you insist on it, you can be presented in the private context, but I do not think that this is really the appropriate forum to push the incense boiler against this situation of the government coalition. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ and ÖVP, I believe you underestimate the situation you have caused by turning off the investigation committee. It is not about any emotional state of mind of individuals or individual parties. It is also not about one party believing that it is not corrupt, or is actually not corrupt, and others believe that other parties were more or less corrupt. The Committee of Inquiry has provided an opportunity that has also been partially used by adopting a number of legislative measures to help us reduce corruption in the future. But what do you think, ladies and gentlemen, of the government parties, which will remain in the public discourse of this committee of inquiry? You can still go here so often and show the laws that have come about with your help – of course, with your help and with your support, otherwise there would be no majority – but what will remain is immense damage, immense damage to politics as a whole, from which no party is excluded, perhaps a new party that has nothing to do with all of this, but certainly not the government parties. You take a risk of turning off this investigation committee today. And don't come to me that it's another day or investigation committee another month. That's absurd and grotesque! Anyone who knows the work of a committee of inquiry knows that within a month or within five sessions, nor with a list of witnesses, which excludes certain persons, nothing can be sufficiently answered from the really comprehensive topics. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Bartenstein.]] You, Mr Bartenstein, have made a committee of inquiry with three topics, which has also taken a long time, and I have also made an investigation committee on one issue. And now we are talking about the committee of inquiry, which could at all be successfully concluded. What remains then? Let us talk about how you have dealt with investigation committees in the past, how you have dealt with them in recent years. Turn off, swive! - That was the program of the government parties. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Right!]] And you really believe anyone has an understanding of that? It is precisely this last committee of inquiry, where you and all the other parties also believe that this Committee of Inquiry has done something, it will do something and it is a great opportunity to restore confidence in policy as a whole, just this committee of inquiry you are now stopping at this crucial moment. And since you really believe that what is clearly your hope is forgotten a few days or a few weeks later? - No! [[Abg. May. Kogler: Never again!]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the ÖVP.]] They manage to ensure that mistrust in politics is maintained. Perhaps you can forget – we certainly don't forget – that you have signed your clubmen under an agreement: Committee of Inquiry as a minority law. We don't forget. The coalition of wordbreakers and angular advocates, which you will also have to please in the future, that you will be called so. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2012-09-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e20397	The next speaker was Mrs Bayr. 5 minutes are adjusted as desired. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-09-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e20418	Ladies and gentlemen! Special Secretary of State! Austria's development cooperation works, although at quite low levels. But with the projects or programmes that Austria is either financed or co-financed, for example, there is a vocational training for young people in Burkina Faso – a vocational training, which is also a good and important guarantee that these children are not dragged away, for example, that there is no child trafficking. In Ethiopia we are active in the field of improving agricultural structures. This is a very important contribution to food security, especially in times of climate change. In Mozambique, we are engaged in decentralisation and thus urban planning and are concerned with such small things as the question of whether a fire brigade can really drive through a road and clear the fire. In Bhutan, for example, we are active in helping to build a hydroelectric power plant, with which the Bhutanan population also enjoys electricity. And by the way: This will also increase gross national happiness a little bit. In Uganda, specifically in Kisoro in the south, Austria is active in the water supply, where we have introduced a cooperative model that helps women who were busy for hours to get water to pursue other activities, such as paid activities. So our EZA is not bad, but it is at a very low level. 0.27% of gross national income is spent on this, which corresponds to about the level of Greece and Italy, and we know that we do not have to deal economically with these countries at the same level. I therefore welcome the understanding of the Secretary of State and of the Coalition Partner that it is important and necessary to increase our development expenditure so that we can meet our international commitments too, and I very much hope that we have now reached the sole in 2012 and that we can now really make further increases. What I definitely believe is that we need a budget schedule. We will need a timetable until we get this 0.7 percent of the gross national product. the income to which we have committed ourselves will be reached. I'm not an illusionist. By 2015 – that would actually have been the goal – we will certainly not reach them, but until when will we reach them instead? For example, it might be a realistic way to achieve this by 2018. To do this, we need a roadmap that must be binding and clear, so that our partners can rely on it. But apart from money, there are a lot of other areas of work that are ahead of us in development cooperation, for example, the question of how we manage to work more coherently, says how we manage to ensure that individual policies really happen in the sense of sustainable development cooperation. In this context, I would also like to welcome the decision of the beginning of the week, namely to distance myself from the addition of E10, i.e. this 10% ethanol in the fuel. We know that this would have had terrible developmental implications. Austria and also the European Union are not able to produce all these quantities themselves. Of course, we would have imported them, especially from developing countries, and we know what social, human and environmental problems this would have brought. Thus, the abandonment of E10 – the very late renunciation in Austria – and the trend change at the European Union level is to rethink about how to approach important challenges of climate protection differently, except with the addition, a very important step towards coherence. We will - and we will have to decide here in Parliament - see in this sense that free trade agreements, which include investment protection agreements, have clauses and social clauses that have real relevance to third-world workers. As Austrians, we will also have to engage in this – yesterday the debate in the UN General Assembly started – as the Millennium Development Goals, the development goals of this millennium, will look after 2015, as will the sustainability goals that will be added. I would like to say that, as a Parliament, we also very much want to involve ourselves in this discussion, just as we would like to be a partner in development cooperation, a contact person at the same level. In this context, I also welcome your invitation to dialogue. I can tell you that we are very happy to meet this in the sense of a common goal that unites us in development cooperation, namely that we want to see this one world, which we share to seven billions, really offers future opportunities for all of these seven billions of individual people in a healthy, healthy environment where everyone can share and live equally, a decent life in full respect of their human rights. The SPÖ is a party that is in the heart of international solidarity. The poor people know that they can rely on us, whether it be in Austria or elsewhere in the world. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-09-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e20489	The next speaker to speak is Mrs Schenk. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-09-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e20510	Mr President. Dear gentlemen on the Government Bank! Mr. State Secretary Lopatka! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr State Secretary, this situation is not new to you. You're on the third floor today. in your capacity as Secretary of State; from the Secretary of State to the Secretary of State for Sports, now as Secretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. You have always stressed in your interviews on your appointment that you want to work especially for European policy, that Europe is very important, and that you need the national parliaments, the EU Parliament, to forward this large project to Europe. The main task, you have repeatedly mentioned, be it to pay attention to the concerns and fears of the population, to address the concerns and fears of the population and to involve the democratically elected parliaments in your work. These approaches are quite plausible, and I also wish you every good for your work from this point of view; but I really wonder how you want to do that, how do you want to do it? If I may recall briefly: In voting on the ESM and the Fiscal Pact, there has been great uncertainty in the population. We got a lot of emails. We have talked at events with people who have transmitted or expressed their fears regarding ESM and Fiscal Pact. I ask you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, how do you fear these people? It has also been mentioned today that, according to the Committee of Inquiry, red and black want to turn off early by deadline, and that is quite contrary to what you say: to regain the confidence of the citizens. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] So if the ladies and gentlemen follow this debate today on the visitor gallery and in front of the television screens, they really do come up! Another point that has not yet been raised today and which I would like to address now is the EU Force Rate for Women on Supervisory Boards, planned by EU Justice Commissioner Reding. This forced quota is breaking up, how to get rid of the media. Ten countries have already spoken against it: United Kingdom, Bulgaria, the Czech Republic, Denmark, Hungary, Lithuania, Malta, the Netherlands, Sweden and Slovenia, and last but not least, Germany has opposed this forced rate. Mr. State Secretary! I now also have a specific question to ask you. On the one hand: How will you act in Brussels with regard to this compulsory quota? There is no uniform opinion on this within the government parties. And what is particularly interesting: There is not even a single opinion within your group on this quota issue. Let me quote to your honourable Member, Mr Fürntrath-Moretti, who says: “With the quota clause swinging, nothing changes in the environment ().” It also says: ‘Instead of acting with the legal bridge rod, the roots of the problem must be placed at the root of the problem ( ).’ Mr Fürntrath-Moretti is also quoted literally: “What do Forces and Quotas bring if essential conditions for the compatibility of family and working life are not given?” This quote could come from us. It's all on our line, so is our opinion. But that does not fit with your opinion respectfully with the opinion of your coalition partner. I would like to know from you how You will continue to think about how you will be represented by the interests of Austria in Brussels and what your opinion will look like. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-09-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e20579	The next speaker was Mr Glaser. 6 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-09-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e20601	Mr President. Dear gentlemen on the government bank! High house! In the current economically and politically interesting – not to say: turbulents – times Reinhold Lopatka certainly brings the best conditions to support our Foreign Minister Michael Spindelegger: He has peace, competence and determination. I think there's work in all places. EU theme: We all know that the EU will have to change if it continues to function. It will be more about putting common values in the foreground than individual interests. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Theme cover-up! Thema Erwin Pröll!]] [[Call FPÖ:ÖVP, V like cover-up!]] It will be more important to make functioning better and easier than to maintain existing complex mechanisms. I am therefore pleased that our Foreign Minister and Vice-President, together with ten other Foreign Ministers, have produced a paper that can be the basis for future development, for a Convention and hopefully also for new structures and new opportunities to make this Europe functional. Theme North Africa: North Africa and the Middle East are indeed a powder vessel. It started with the Arab Spring. We all know that the expectations that were awakened at that time could not really be fulfilled; and I believe that among other things, these disappointed expectations are reason that there are now demonstrations triggered by this senseless Muhammad video. In any case, these disappointed expectations certainly play with them, and radicalization and provocateurs play each other in their hands. A provocation follows a demo, follows the dead, follows the hatred on the west, and in turn follows the provocation on our side. I therefore believe that it is really important to take a clear position and that most of the population is certainly not willing to go along with this path on a permanent basis. We must therefore really try to support most of the population, democracy and an economic perspective. We must seek dialogue and dialogue with these forces – and not confrontation. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] A special formulation of the Arab Spring is undoubtedly the situation in Syria. There, demonstrations have gradually passed into a civil war, and today, as we have to say, we have the tragedy that people no longer know how to behave and protect themselves in this country. I therefore believe that it is really necessary to take a clear position. I also think it is clear that it is time to say – it has already been said repeatedly that it is unbearable that Russia and China continue to prevent this – that the world community will work together. We therefore want what we can do. That's not much, but we can clearly get a position. In this context, I can make the following request – the situation is known to you, has been described; I can read the request for this –: [[Quoted print version removed]] I would ask you to agree to this request. In this context, I should also like to point out that yesterday the Federal Government also made a financial contribution – at least small – by providing € 1 million from the foreign disaster fund for refugees from Syria. – Thank you very much for that! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Finally, a word on development cooperation. This is certainly in good hands at Reinhold Lopatka. On this occasion I should also like to say a warm thank you to the retired State Secretary Wolfgang Waldner, who, I believe, has prepared a good basis for discussion with NGOs and all those involved. But Reinhold Lopatka brings a very special sensorium with it: He himself was active on the spot, he has always been positive. And he brought, above all, a beautiful gift of understanding, namely that the reduction planned for 2013 will not come, but that this €6.6 million will be found here by redeployment, thus ensuring that the ADA, where development cooperation really becomes visible, can continue to work to the extent that projects are carried out, that the competence of the ADA can be ensured that Austria remains visible on site and the internationality of Austria does not suffer. Finally and finally and finally: I believe that we are well placed with Michael Spindelegger and Reinhold Lopatka in Europe and in the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-09-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e20707	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2012-09-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e20788	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Walser. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-09-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e20809	Estimated members of the Federal Government! High house! But above all, Mr Lopatka, State Secretary! I would really like you to see today, that your great day, your first re-appearing on the government bank – it is not so mystical, Mr State Secretary, because I am still wishing, in the good wishes to you. [[State Secretary Dr. Lopatka: Re-appear! That sounds almost mystical!]] I would have liked this to be a day of joy for you and for Parliament. But it is the great danger that Your approach today coincides with a very gloomy chapter of parliamentarianism, which would be a very sad day if what the government parties have planned. It would be a sad day for parliamentarianism and for democracy in Austria as a whole, if what the leaders of the government wanted to do. That is why I appeal to the SPÖ and ÖVP colleagues. – At the SPÖ the series have filled themselves a bit again. The crisis meeting is obviously over. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Gaßner: Your speech, it is so state-bearing!]] I assume that the SPÖ MEPs have also exercised a little bit in relation to their club management; that the backbone was there, to say no, we do not participate in that, for the reduction of democracy are freely elected representatives of social democracy not to have. I hope that this meeting at the ÖVP has not taken place because it is not at all necessary, because it is clear that you will not agree to such an immeasurable one and that you will provide your State Secretary with a more pleasant approach to his responsible activity, that you will turn off this cold coup of the coalition peaks at least in the club. [[Abg. May. Kogler: No, they just need to watch more television, that's enough!]] We're counting on you. You have the opportunity to write history today. You have the opportunity today to show that the Sovereign is the Members of this House – and not any party grandeurs who want to turn this committee off for transparent reasons. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It's up to you when you move on. There are many, many issues that we should actually talk about here. There is a stopover of reform. I should, of course, like to appeal to the education sector, where nothing goes on, where there are great sounds to be heard over and over again, but the basic reform that we all want does not concern. Mr. Lopatka, your colleague, Johannes Kurz. [[Calls:Sebastian]] – Yes, Sebastian Kurz, you forgive me for this fauxpas. In short, a proposal has been made which has been rejected by all experts. You at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs now have the opportunity: Take your Sebastian by the hand, guide him through the great wide world, show him Scandinavia, show him the school system there! Take him to Canada, show him They are the countries where it is possible to open up an opportunity for children who have learning deficits, children who do not understand the language of teaching! That's where it works. Unfortunately, with the plans your Sebastian Kurz presented here it doesn't work, the experts have shown you this clearly in recent days. So let's pick it up! [[Call the ÖVP: Pack!]] Let us finally talk here in this House about what to do! We need more justice. We must see that not the poorest of the poor pay for the great crisis, but that those who have benefited from it will be involved. We need more justice in Austria. These are the topics we should talk about. And what is fact today? We must talk about this incredible coup against democracy, against parliamentarianism! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Make sure with us that today will not be a black day for parliamentarianism in Austria! Make sure with us that we show it to those who believe that there is a Cabinet policy and that we can drive the Republic to the point that this is not successful! You got it in your hand. It would be a big day for Austria. It would be a great day for this House if the deadline proposal to be submitted here – negotiations are still under way – would not be introduced or at least no majority would be granted.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-09-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e20917	Mr Herzegovina came next to speak. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-09-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e20949	Mr. Federal Chancellor! Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mr. State Secretary! There is therefore a new government transformation in the ÖVP warehouse. We would like to take note of this. The causes are in Carinthia. I don't want to spread there any more. [[Abg. Dr. Strutz: Better that!]] Mr State Secretary! Of course, we still have a lot of work in front of us, government and Parliament next year. We have a budget ahead of us, many, many ambitions in the health field, in education, in the social field and, of course, in European policy. Mr State Secretary! I would like a little less party policy. It is not about who is for France and who is for Germany. We are all for Austria and for the European Union, that is the crucial point. So I ask you to leave the party policy out of here with some statements! [[Abg. Grosz: If that's what the herbs say, that's a special joke!]] We also have social policy issues, such as a popular survey in front of us, namely in January. This is actually a subject that is well suited. But I warn against understanding this as a party struggle or misunderstanding. Let's sit on material information! [[Abg. Kickl: Red muffy sauce!]] It is a colossal misunderstanding to believe that the population here wants a kind of replacement campaign. This would not give a good service to direct democracy as a whole. I think you can argue there without any special polemics or any horrors. The SPÖ supports a professional army, because the fight against terror, against cyber-attacks, against pandemics, that's nothing for presenters. It is clear that there may be a hundred generals who are sad, because certain amenities are lost. Okay, that's hard to bear. By the way, we have compared to Germany, I think, even a little more generals, although the army there is ten times larger. Citizens' initiatives and committees will be formed. [[Abg. Kickl: Citizens on patrol!]] Hannes Androsch is also involved and it is also a Professor Anton Pelinka. It is also important that political scientists participate, because this March of parallels to 1934 is really obsolete in a military system and with time soldiers. People from the economy, like Director-General Wolfgang Hesoun, are also involved. This is also important because it is not particularly professional when young people are used as cooks and waiters in some way. That's not good. [[Abg. May. Stefan: Professional waiter!]] On the Social Minister Rudolf Hundstorferist, as always, left as regards rescue, disability and social assistance. There should be no compulsion in this area, but opportunities and jobs, for example for women. They are really very, very interesting perspectives that offer themselves. The colleague used to talk about the cold coup over and over again. This is not quite fair, I would say, because it is now being negotiated to reach a solution. It is a compromise and nothing else. There's been a little bit of a one-sided argument. But to really find out from the dilemma that the committee of inquiry is concerned, we simply need a reform. It would also be very interesting to take this very seriously in this legislative period. How is that in Germany? That works really well and unscrupulous. There is a minority right, whatever we want. There are clear rules. It's not like a political arena like this, but it's a matter of scientific education. That is where we have to start and change the political culture, because, honestly, the public is quite a picture: The investigative committee has some of the Tribunal, the Inquisition, the inconsistencies, of ugly polemics. I think we all need to learn a lot together. Speaking of political culture. That's the last thing I'd like to say. So when speaking and dealing with each other, I really want to appeal for a certain choice of words. A few inconceivable derailments – I don't want to repeat them now – have happened here lately. Mr State Secretary! That would also be an opportunity to make a contribution to this. You also have a behavioural flaw within the ÖVP, you have studied it in the USA in some way. I would really ask that we deal with each other in such a way that it really corresponds to a political culture. Let us focus on the essential – the SPÖ will do so anyway – on jobs, social, distribution justice, and we know from current assessments that this is all the best for the population.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-09-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e21041	The next speaker was Mr Huber. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-09-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e21063	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! The Secretary of State! Yes, the reform of the government would be urgently necessary, but many have expected Mr Berlakovich to be replaced at last, Because this circus that we've been with the E10 in the last few weeks is really inconceivable. And if you know that the population today can no longer afford to tank, that the food has become partly priceless, and then, just to make a large Austrian company the wall, goes here and continues to exist on this E10, so according to the motto “fold hands and keep the goshes”, this is really a policy that, as I believe, is no longer contemporary. [[Interlocutory note by Secretary of State Dr. Lopatka.]] And then you're laughing at this, too? – The only thing the ÖVP has done lately in the time of the crisis was to increase the tax on mineral oil. At the same time, the misleading of the population regarding the E10, with regard to this expression of bioethanol, has really been drawn to the hair, because the truth is that I need more energy for the production of this ethanol than in the end comes from the ethanol. It is really an inconspicuous agricultural policy that we now have, even if we look at the soya sector. Today we in Europe import 23 million tonnes of soybean per year and Europe imports another 13 million tonnes of soybeans. Here, please, Austrian politics would be asked to finally raise the vote in Brussels. There's something we could do. But no, Austria, our Minister for Agriculture, is now supporting the proposal submitted by EFSA that genetically contaminated seed should also be allowed in Europe. Again, it is about lobbyism, purely about working on certain corporations. Let's see which pesticides – starting with Roundup – we use today in Austria, which is applied to all children's playgrounds on the golf courses, which we know are most harmful to health! Our agricultural policy does nothing but the wall for the corporations. Once again we have to thank our farmers who work 365 days a year, but who can't do anything for the conditions, because this is what policy is doing. And I really believe that, since Mr Berlakovich is truly uninstructable, Mr. Vice-Chancellor, Mr. ÖVP-Obmann Spindelegger should have acted or should have acted there at last, because government work feels the population only under the motto of refusal. Everything is refused – see Investigation Committee: turned off, you turn off the light – instead of taking initiatives to see that you get the taxes down, you see that you really stimulate investment in Austria. No, it's working on the motto: More of the same. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kößl.]] I believe that this policy has long failed.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-09-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e21126	The next speaker was Mrs Himmelbauer. If desired, 6 minutes of speaking time will be set. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-09-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e21147	Mr President. Mr. Foreign Minister! Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Austria is part of Europe and Europe is also part of Austria. We must create this awareness: a awareness of Europe that is being communicated from a small point of view. In addition to political education in our schools, it is important that young people also look at their own border of plates – look at their own border in the sense of foreign experiences. In the academic year 2010/2011, 230 000 European students across Europe used an Erasmus programme, with a total of 51 000 students in Austria alone. But not only students benefit from the education programme of the European Union, but also 11 000 pupils and more than 3 900 apprentices have lived and learned in another EU Member State. I made an Erasmus program myself. I have been in Sweden for half a year and have completed a part of my studies there, and I know that this experience enhances understanding of a common Europe, because it brings us not only another language, but also another culture, but also brings friendships across Europe – and also creates a clear view of one's own country. Austria is part of Europe, and with it, especially in the field of education, we also bring our ideas, our success recipes at European level. The EU has recognised that due to dual vocational training, we have been able to keep youth unemployment low, that the dual system creates a good position in the international comparison. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Neugebauer: Very good!]] Many delegations from the Member States come to Austria to look at the dual training system here, and also with the aim of introducing the system with them. We have shown how and have brought the model of dual training to the European level. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Austria is part of Europe, and Austria has benefited economically through membership of the EU. Since 1995, economic performance in my home country, in Lower Austria, has increased by 70 percent. The new business start-ups are 75 percent higher, the exports in Lower Austria have tripled and every single euro we send to Brussels comes back three times. This is particularly evident in EU regional support, a very important contribution to the development of our economic location and for the regions as a whole. Since the existence of regional funding, 263 projects have been funded in the wine district alone, with a total amount of € 122.5 million. This has created and secured well over 3,000 new jobs. I am convinced that our State Secretary Reinhold Lopatka will represent the interests of Austria at European level and that he will also strengthen confidence in the European Union, for he is a guarantee for the successful path of Austria in the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-09-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e21196	As the next speaker, Mr Dr. Pirklhuber. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-09-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e21217	Ladies and gentlemen, it is truly a black day for Austrian parliamentarianism. [[Abg. New builder: (to the clothes of the speaker; this one does not wear a sacco, but a green t-shirt with over his shirt) No wonder in the clothes!]] [[Unrest in the hall.]] If you turn around and look into the faces of the government representatives, you can see with what bitterness, with which boredom is held here at a completely false course. [[Abg. Scheibner: A green hat!]] – I will explain the context, Mr Scheibner. While you block the work of the Committee of Inquiry and, with your proposal for a deadline in blackmail manner, democracy is on foot, at the same time, Mr Scheibner, thousands of people in Europe are on their way in these minutes, within the framework of the Good Food March, and are making a positive policy for more democracy in the field of agricultural policy, food policy. [[Abg. Scheibner: A short pants still for this!]] Colleagues of Herbs says: Let's get back to the important things! – Yes, colleague herbs, one of the important things is democracy. When we talk about democracy in Europe, we also need to talk about democracy here in this House. This is the subject, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Two years ago, you promised us a minority right, a minority right for the committee of inquiry. What happened to it? Signatures by colleague Kopf, by colleague Cap – nothing worth it! You're punctual, my colleague. They're verbal, and that's incredible. You have said that if Mr Moser opens the way when everyone moves, then work will continue. [[Abg. Kickl: What does the colleague Prammer say?]] Where will work continue? They're making a request for a deadline! It's really a pity – a pity and a mourning game! [[Ruf:A pity with the Prammer]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Gaßner.]] At the same time, there is a policy of young people who, within the framework of Good Food March, are fighting for exactly what people in this Republic and in Europe expect, namely to listen to politics, to perceive the interests of the population. At the same time as our discussion today, at 3 p.m. before the European Parliament, 180 civil society organisations will talk to the President of the European Parliament Martin Schulz and Commissioner Cioloş from Global 2000 to “Green Farmers”, from FIAN to development organisations – Mr Scheibner. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Disc]] This is a policy of dialogue, namely the dialogue about what citizens expect. And this dialogue really fails in Austria and in the Austrian Parliament, which simply leaves it to be desired in every respect. Your way, your style of politics – and that goes in the direction of ÖVP and SPÖ – this way you become epressive here, as you really try everything in the last second to lead the public behind the light in order to step the interests of the citizens with feet – that can't be said otherwise – that's incredible! [[Abg. Amon: This is the accusation of a criminal offence, Mr President.]] [[Calls and counter-calls between Dr Glawischnig-Piesczek and Amon]] I've been in this house for more than ten years now. I have never experienced such a day, such a black day of parliamentarianism, when one must say: The whole population in Austria is horrified. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] She's horrified at your actions, about your ignorance! You can't tolerate that and that can't be tolerated. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Excuse me, Mr Rädler. The Austrian population knows what that means. And you'll get the bill presented, I can promise you. And one of the Federal Chancellors who will be here in a few seconds: If a Federal Chancellor wants to give serious evidence of his statement, which he himself made in the “Summer Talks” mission, that is, if the Members invite me, then what is logical, ladies and gentlemen? – Let's invite the Federal Chancellor! He himself said he'd come. Stop the blockade! Mr Neugebauer, you can, together with us, achieve that we, of course, load the Federal Chancellor, of course also load other ministers. It is of course in Europe that members of the government are also speaking and responding. That would be just right and cheap, that is necessary. Stop your blockade! And if you want to get a rest of credibility, then withdraw this deadline request immediately! Withdraw this deadline proposal so that we can finally work properly in this House! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-09-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e21370	As the last speaker on this item on the agenda, Mr Scheibner is speaking with a second speech. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-09-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e21392	Mr President. Mr Pirklhuber, you have complained that I have smiled earlier in your speech. This was not about the content of your designs, but rather your outfit, because I then discovered that you have a onion with legs on your shirt. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber.]] This is not quite the content of your speech: It was serious, and that's more caricature. So maybe you can compare this a little bit in the future, then we don't need to laugh, but we can also look seriously when you present serious things here at the speaker's desk. But I've already announced that there's a request for the situation... [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Lichtenecker.]] - Please? [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenecker: A seed grain was that, no onion!]] A seed is that? I'd rather say it's a onion, but it might be. Maybe you can interpret that. [[New call of the abg. Dr. Lichtenecker.]] Next time, maybe you'll pull a sacco over it – you've got one anyway – then we don't have to discuss it big. But back to the serious things of the debate. The honourable Member, Mr Glaser, has tabled the motion for a resolution on Syria that has already been tabled. He has also been transmitted to us in advance. We would have liked to have changed some points. This was perhaps no longer possible due to the short period of time. However, we do not want to accept this proposal because it leaves some important points out to us. That is why, on the basis of your request, we have put forward our own request, which I would like to make herewith: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I believe it is important to signal that violence – no matter who it is from – is condemned by us that we are not taking one-sided parties, but that we are with all those – no matter where they come from – who seek a peaceful, democratic solution based on human rights and a secular state.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-09-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e21496	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2012-09-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e21577	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Fichtenbauer. 10 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-09-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e21598	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Dear gentlemen on the Government Bank! Since today's issues have touched on the level of foreign policy and monetary policy and have been given a total of speeches, whose content has led to a justified disarmament of some Members – I come back to Mr Auer's comments, which are unfortunately not here now – I would like to take the opportunity to take note of some of the things that the Freedom Party is essential to you. Number one: The debate is about the euro, about the ESM and about the attitude of the Austrian Federal Government on European issues, with the question of the Euro crisis being answered by the foreign-political people by the fact that – as diffused as this statement may be – it is said to be heard several times – a more European or a deeper Europe – whatever that may be – is the right method of healing. All those who are critical of this perspective, especially the Freedom Party, are confronted with apostatized remarks such as, one does not understand, and the same. The political debate, to a large extent also in Parliament, does not allow for fairness and thought intensity. The coalition has tried to replace the critical discussion with a superficial response scenario. I briefly describe the following positions and basic concepts presented by the Freedom Party. Also in the result of critical Thoughters from abroad have been held that the euro was obviously originally intended to force the political Union, which was not meant to be enforced directly. The political union should now be forced to save the euro. Based on this basic formula, we must recognise that the essential intervention in financial policy and financial structures has been addressed through international treaties, with the clear objective of not having to make the effort to change the Treaty of Lisbon. Thus, a profound European structure of intervention in contract law has been addressed by means of international law rather than by the change in the Treaty law of Lisbon. A fundamental turning point was therefore made as regards the basic condition of the historical approach when the euro was introduced, namely that the euro should not be a debt union, no bail-out. With the ESM – and this we criticize – de facto a debt union is brought about, in fact, contrary to the contract and under an actual historical succession of deception in relation to what has been promised at that time. Nor will anyone dissuade us from presenting this critical momentum – and we are not the only ones in Europe. Number two: Finally, the deep negative step towards the euro's level of function was achieved when the euro area did not involve appropriate economies; Tag Greece. The damage, which has necessarily been done to the countries concerned, was not only the weakening of the level of sovereignty of these countries, because the ability to deal with their monetary and financial crises has been eliminated for these countries, but they must also fulfil conditions which they clearly cannot fulfil within the framework of the corrigendum of the Eurorelation Screen. So if, in the context of the euro crisis or the debt crisis, the perspective for a deepened Europe is meant to be a more Europe, it can only be said that the current Treaty situation is to be changed towards a European central state. This meant that, unlike the current situation, a significant amount of national sovereignty should still be transferred to a central European body, as always. I therefore ask critically: Do you really want to see countries of such a different state of constitution, such as Austria, Germany, England, France, France, which suffers enormously from the centralist structure that clearly weakens the ability to act, the flexibility of the provinces, do you really want to give out such a political goal as a cure medicine for the euro crisis, or would it not be better what other thorough thinkers in this context also call for a revision of the current euro area model? – I add that it should end with the senseless allegations towards the Freedom Party: You want to go back to Schilling without delay! We're not an irregular phan keys. We do not explore that the step towards the euro was an advantage to the country under the then political promises, under the founding euro area, with all its consequences. But the good project has been corrupted! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If I have eaten a good food, then there is no reason to pour even more evils into the food and think, the more I eat of it, the better it will end. This is a finding that every doctor can tell you in the second semester of his studies. It would therefore be time, on the occasion of a debate as it is now, to distance itself from party-political outrages, precepts, adversities and allegations that are not even prepared to be printed in the most modest newspaper in Austria. Mr Kogler went in the direction of the colleague Auer said very correctly – I can quote it again –: Government policy, which is missing to replace it by advocacy policy towards opposition, is not possible! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I would therefore like to promote advocacy of unappropriate manners, to put everyone in the house to the point of being reasonable, and not to put any political group to the point of being foolish. [[Abg. Weninger: Both sides!]] We want to take an appropriate part in participating in European political order and in doing the best for our country and for the area in which we are located. I just wanted to say that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-09-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e21661	No one is reporting on this. I therefore conclude the debate. We are now voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Hübner, colleagues in international law, on safeguarding Austria's liability under the ESM Treaty. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Members of the European Parliament, Mr Muttonen, Mr Glaser, Mr Korun, and others, on the current developments in Syria. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is accepted by a majority. (E 269.) We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Members Scheibner, colleagues and colleagues on current developments in Syria. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. Rejected. [[14:46:53]] 2. Point Election of a member to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe
ParlaMint-AT_2012-09-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e21731	We're coming to the 2nd. Agenda item. On the occasion of the resignation of Dr. Alexander Van der Bellen at the end of the 5th century. On 12 July 2012, he was elected by the Green Club as a member of the National Council. Alev Korun. In the sense of § 66 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure I shall not vote with votes, but by raising the seats. On the other hand, is there any objection? - That's not the case. I would therefore ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the adoption of the electoral proposal which I have announced, to be a sign of approval. – This is accepted unanimously. The election of a member to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe has thus been carried out. The agenda is complete. I am now interrupting the sitting by 15.05 a.m. to deal with a urgent question. The sitting was suspended.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-09-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e21799	I'll start the interrupted session again. [[15:05:16]] Request for urgent procedure by Dr. Peter Pilz, colleagues in the Federal Chancellor concerning advertising ad-affair Faymann (12575/J)
ParlaMint-AT_2012-09-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e21839	We are now entering the urgent debate on the written question 12575/J. As this has now been done to all the Members of Parliament, their reading by the scribe is not sufficient. The urgent question has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2012-09-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e22098	I would like to ask Mr Pilz, the first questioner, to state the reasons for the question, which, in accordance with § 93 para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure must not exceed 20 minutes, the floor. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-09-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e22119	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Mr Bundeskanzler, welcome to Parliament! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It's wonderful! You are making it possible to explain the many affairs in which you were involved, not only in the “summer talk”, but even in Parliament! This is a quantum leap to political responsibility. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: That's a shame!]] Josef Cap will then go out and say: Yes, in the “summer talk” he has already said everything, in the urgent request he has already said everything. Now he doesn't have to go to the investigation committee anymore. Dear Colleague Cap, there is an essential difference, and on this difference I place the greatest value on Werner Faymann: Neither the “summer talk” nor the answer to a urgent request is subject to a legal obligation of truth. And when we question Werner Faymann as Federal Chancellor and as a former Transport Minister in this House, I say from experience: That's where we need a legal obligation to be truthful. And I'll tell you why. In his survey as an accused person, Federal Chancellor Faymann literally explained: There have been “no cases of my knowledge in which the order to the medium came from BMVIT” Mr. Federal Chancellor, you know just as we all know that this is the smooth untruth. And I don't think you're gonna know for a second that you didn't know that in your judicial consultation. I quote: Request to the Board of Directors of ÖBB Holding AG. Reporting body: Group communication. & Edit... May. Walter Sattelberger. Date: 3rd. ==References== Subject: Cooperation with “Kronen Zeitung” Subject matter: Minister Faymann has agreed to a multi-part cooperation “Our Railway” with the “Kronen Zeitung” in 2007. The following costs apply: one-off € 500 000. Request: The Executive Board of ÖBB Holding AG may decide to approve a cost framework for cooperation with the “Kronen Zeitung”, €500 000, to be borne by ÖBB Holding AG’s budget. Proposal in the Group, quite clearly, not the ÖBB! Federal Minister Faymann concluded a legal advertising business behind the back of the ÖBB at the expense of the ÖBB and then instructed the Board of Directors to decide on a request and to have it paid by the ÖBB. The railway customers and train customers finance the hidden and possibly illegal advertising transactions of the then Minister of Transport Werner Faymann. On this point, Werner Faymann, in front of the police, clearly said the untruth in front of the law enforcement authorities. That wasn't the only time. Note of file, Special Supplement ‘Austria’, 10. August 2007. I quote: Today, the daily “ÖsterREICH” published a special report on transport safety in Austria, including topics relating to ASFINAG. This new cooperation with the daily “ÖSTERREICH” was concluded and agreed by the Federal Minister Faymann. The order was confirmed by Mr. Schedl. On August 10, 2008, it sent it to company communications for further processing. Information on a cost participation last Tuesday, 7. August 2007, by Mr Landgraf (Sprecher Federal Minister Faymann). And then we're going to go on: As the invoice is delivered in a few days, it is requested to agree to this cooperation, to pay the invoice and to continue to calculate the share of the VTG. This is ASFINAG. And that goes on, and there are file notes and there are board protocols and there are applications and there are bookings. And there's always: Transport Minister Werner Faymann has either himself or medium-sized men in the cabinet behind the back of the organizations and companies he depends on ASFINAG and ÖBB. But it was particularly great at the ÖBB. Half a year had to be reported how bad the ÖBB are. And the ÖBB had to pay for this business Faymann made behind her back. And Faymann was then the Bahn-Ombudsman in the “Kronen Zeitung”, who explains that he is doing everything he can. But not even this text has been by him. Members of Group Communications in ÖBB had to write the texts for the Minister of Transport in which he explains how he saves the railway in front of the railway in the “Kronen Zeitung”. That's how it looks in this Republic! And Werner Faymann doesn't want to explain this to the investigative committee. And I only have two explanations for this: Firstly, because it is really unpleasant, no minister of this Republic likes to explain this. And second, because he was under a duty of truth and could not simply say: That's not true! You can't do that, Federal Chancellor! I can't! And that's why you have reasons. But now I'm asking: Why are you taking such a risk? Why do you take the risk of possibly closing criminal transactions behind the back of the authorized organs with Boulevard media? Why do it? You do? For me, there is only one political explanation for this: A minister who cannot convince public opinion decides to buy the opinion published. That is the key, the political key to all affairs! This requires buying journalists and buying media, which is the simplest definition for boulevard in Austria. Boulevard is in Austria what is bought! And non-boulevard is in Austria what is not available. And now I come to the first positive point: Not only in recent months have we seen how much is not available on newspapers and electronic media in Austria. Our problem for the parliamentary investigation is the purchase of journalism, are the buying media, is the buyable boulevard. And this is particularly about key persons such as “ÖsterREICH” editor Wolfgang Fellner. I quote again: Document reference, 3. ==References== Talk between Lückler and daily „ÖSTERREICH“, Mr. Chief Editor and editor Wolfgang Fellner and another person. Planned service page. Fellner plans once a week, on Sunday, in the newspaper “ÖsterREICH” a service page specifically tailored to the highways. He also intended to design a part of the Auto-Ombudsmann theme with Mr. Faymann as an analog to the “Kronen Zeitung”. The Ombudsman says: Railway is too little for me, I also need to become a car Ombudsman, and sit down with Fellner. In this area, there would be the possibility for Mr Faymann to answer specific questions about motorways and highways. And then – I quote –: Fellner points out that he would like to start with the Sunday side very quickly, that he is already in arrears in view of his commitment to Mr. Faymann. That's why ASFINAG has to pay fast. That's why it says: ASFINAG, you didn't order it, you don't want to advertise, but the business is already agreed between Fellner and Faymann. Pay fast, money on the table! – That’s how it looks in this Republic! As long as a head of government believes that he can buy the published opinion, it does not apply that he rules with the help of the Boulevard, but that he and thus Austria is ruled by the Boulevard. And this is the sad political balance of a Faymann government, whose name is not a single reform, but now a lot of affairs are connected. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] What's Faymann got for it? He is made to whom by the newspaper “ÖsterREICH ”? – Not to the auto-ombudsman, not to the ÖBB-Ombudsman. Too little! He'll be the "Austro-Obama"! Werner Faymann is the “Austro-Obama”! The only luck is that I'm sure Barack Obama will never be the US-Faymann. This is a very small consolation over the Atlantic. And what does Faymann get from the “crone ”? I quote: 9. September 2012: Seaweeds, Martina and Gugelhupf. It doesn't take much to get out of the Federal Chancellor for a few hours of the citizens Faymann: a flowering garden on the outskirts of Vienna. And so on. So: Exchange money against jubilation, exchange money for guinea pigs stories. But please always note: Not Mr Faymann's money, not the money of the Social Democratic Party, but tax money, that's all tax money! And now the question is: Is that the case before? And there's a simple answer: No, it wasn't like that before, it was different before. There are numerous agreements that show that Faymann has changed something in the Ministry of Transport. Mark Zimmermann of ASFINAG at his witness hearing, Vienna Public Prosecutor's Office: The situation, however, has changed from the Angelobung Faymanns in the form that a number of media representatives, especially the advertising vendors, have approached the accused Faymann's cabinet directly and have placed offers there regarding various commercials. Then the former ÖBB general director, Martin Huber, reports to the public prosecutor – I quote –: Ostermayer has called me a concrete amount, namely €7 million, which Faymann could imagine for his dispositions, which I, as I have already mentioned, categorically rejected. Mr. Ostermayer goes to the ÖBB General Director for Mr. Faymann and says: The Minister of Transport introduces 7 million. And then the Deputy Director-General of the ÖBB will be asked, then Stefan Wehinger, and this one gives on the record: I have discussed with Ostermayer what this procedure should be, and he has finally told me that he sees me remain in the position of the Board of Directors in relation to cooperation in such matters. It was clear to me, of course, that he meant that if I did not cooperate with payment, I could lose my board posts. – This was said by a former Executive Director in his hearing. We can further ask: How was ASFINAG? How much money did the newspaper “ÖsterREICH” get from the ASFINAG in front of Faymann? – I can tell you: Zero euros and zero cents! And how much in 2007 of Faymann? – €470 000. From zero to 470 000! This is just a small one of many Faymann balances. Now, of course, the objection comes, I assume from the SPÖ, maybe also from the ÖVP: But at Chancellor Faymann everything is quite different, the chancellor Faymann does not do it! – error: Chancellor Faymann doesn't do anything else. Here you can see a typical Faymann listing of 19. In May 2011 in ‘ÖsterREICH’, ‘INFORMATION. CONTACT. [[the speaker shows ads]] OFFICE ONLINE’ There is an e-mail address and a telephone number of the Federal Chancellery. And: "Sudden help for people". This is the second subject: The Federal Chancellor accepts the requests of a bitter with photo. This is not a report, these are not service reports, but these are circuits of the Federal Chancellor's Office from December 2008 to December 2011, because we don't know the younger records yet, three years. In the “Kronen Zeitung”: Bundeskanzleramts-Telephone numbers and e-mail addresses by 1 516 659 €; ‘Austria’ means: €236 958; ‘Today’: €415 472; total: 3 820 089 €; so telephone number subsidies in “Kronen Zeitung”, “Austria” and “Today”, that is, on the Boulevard, around €1273,000 a year. Now I ask you: And before in the Federal Chancellery? And before? – We have the number for a year before Werner Faymann as Federal Chancellor. 12 577,15 €! This means, since Mr Faymann was Federal Chancellor, exactly the one hundredfold to apply for a telephone number, where possibly the advertisers did not know that it was in each phone book. Money is spent on this – and now the question of political responsibility is raised! If tax money is so misused for its own advertising and for hidden transactions with the Boulevard with the above objectives and successes, then the question of political responsibility arises. And there I am at the investigative committee. Political responsibility means – and this is what Professor Adamovich described very precisely in his comment on the legal situation – in particular the responsibility of government members on criminal acts and on their political responsibility. Whom have we been allowed to hear in the investigation committee so far? – Ex-Deputies such as ex-deputies Wittauer, ex-deputies Meischberger, ex-minister Grasser, ex-minister Gorbach, everything ex. [[Abg. Tamandl: That's not true!]] We have been able to investigate a lot of ex-responsibilities. We were not allowed to question the Westenthaler Member, the Scheibner Member, the Amon Member, the Gartlehner Member and the Hakl Members. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Van der Bellen!]] And we were allowed to and must not, in particular, consult the current Federal Chancellor. That is the crucial point! Three months ago, Federal Chancellor, you tried to explain to the public that there is a new beginning in this Republic that will now fight corruption, that there are lessons from the Investigation Committee that you are grateful to the Investigation Committee for its investigation work. You have explained that now the sharpest anti-corruption package of all time is bound so that such a thing can never happen again. But the reconnaissance must go on. Today, three months later, we are in front of a National Council in which two government parties threaten, with a deadline until 21. September to turn off the investigation committee in the late afternoon. - Now you're just saying: My name is Werner Faymann and has nothing to do with it! That was Pendl! It was Pendl, not Faymann, Pendl! [[Abg. May. Kogler: Debt is the opposition! We're to blame!]] That's clearly what it looks like in the SPÖ! I imagine that in the case of government documents. At Pendl, the phone is ringing: Werner Faymann Comrade Pendl, I would have a law, would it perhaps be possible that! On it Pendl: No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Please report to you next week, then we can talk about whether we're making a law! [[Cheerfulness and condolences with greens, FPÖ and BZÖ.]] Of course, this does not happen, of course it does not work in a military and centralist party like the SPÖ. Of course, there is one who buys up, and one who whispers into the above, and one is the Federal Chancellor, and the other is the State Secretary. That's why, Federal Chancellor Faymann, because we don't believe this either because no one believes you and because you don't believe it yourself, it's true that you are responsible. However, I do not want to conclude completely pessimistically. We have achieved a lot this year, we have achieved a lot despite government parties. We've got a lot of light on it. We have negotiated a number of anti-corruption laws in hard negotiations, which the government parties actually did not want. There is a change of mood in a large majority of the Austrian population. She says: Finally, we want a clean policy, we want to be ruled by people who are not suspected of corruption, we do not want to be ruled by Faymanns, but by quite other politicians! There are many positive signals! You think you can turn the committee off now and move on to the agenda. It won't work! Editors, editors and editors of almost all the quality newspapers of this republic have written you in the political book in recent days that will not be transferred to the agenda. And we here in this House will not go into the agenda because it is not possible because it must not be possible for ministers and German chancellors simply not to accept their political responsibility and not to stand up to this House because it must not be for corruption suspects to rule this Republic because business, unscrupulous, responsible and possibly criminal business with the Boulevard should not be allowed to determine government activity in that Republic. That is why we ask you, Members of SPÖ and ÖVP – we do not ask you to ask you to do so! – that you continue to work on this committee, let Parliament continue to be controlled and that you give this House the opportunity to explain to the Federal Chancellor and his closest political environment, so that something can change and a new start can be made where the centre of the power of this Republic is. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign]] - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-09-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e22317	To answer the urgent question, Mr Faymann spoke. The speaking time should not exceed 20 minutes. - Please, Federal Chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-09-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e22338	Madam President. Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Only the text of the urgent request, but also the words of Mr Pilz, or if someone claims that it is Faymann's conviction that one can buy public opinion – as a simple statement, not even in a discussion, not even as a question, nothing –, Faymann believes he can buy public opinion, especially since the practice of buying opinions by expensive () advertising () continues to be practised continuously, all this means that anyone who switches an advertisement wants to buy someone who takes an advertisement in a newspaper can buy it! [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Pirklhuber: So it is in Austria!]] Mr Pilz, we have nothing to do with such accusations, and that has nothing to do with seriality either. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If you look at the advertising volume of the Austrian economy, the Austrian Federal Government, whether before or after my ministerial period, the public budgets – even where you are ruling, not you, Mr Pilz, but the Green Party – then you may be able to say about some of the listings, whether the telephone number was so important or whether the e-mail address was important or whether the counselor was important, whether this was so important, you can easily argue about it. But in the federal states in which you rule and are also constantly insulated, there is no one purchased?- Oh, my God! That's just the phone number, just the e-mail address? I'm telling you the truth: No one is bought in our country, no one is trying to buy someone in this country – whether you are ruling or not. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Oh, call for FPÖ and greens.]] On the question of truth finding. – You know very well that the accusation of “a few million”, which Dr. Ostermayer alleged to have called in a conversation, has been carefully examined by the prosecutor and the responsible party and the proceedings have been terminated. You forgot to tell us. – Of course, you haven’t forgotten, but it doesn’t fit in with your program. Therefore, if you are really looking for information, you can not only make any generalizations and fixations, make accusations and also make the convictions, but must already make the effort of a differentiated and correct consideration. I would therefore not like to answer your questions in the way you did, but in a serious way, what I feel obliged to do. Question 1: In the course of the consolidation package there were more and more requests from citizens, especially on the topics of pensions and taxes. Therefore, in cooperation with the BMF and the BMASK, the information centres of the relevant ministries were communicated in advertisements. Generally, I think it is important to inform people about service offers whether you are making fun of them or not. On question 2: According to the Federal Press Service, no orders are ordered orally and only later recorded in writing. On questions 3, 4 and 9, the total: Total media budget of the Federal Press Service 2009: 4.9 million; 2010: 4.98; 2011: 4.53 and until 31. August 2012: 1.86 million. Also, the reforms that your text does not mean anything that has never been achieved were some that we have agreed with you. This includes the Media Transparency Act. One can very well argue and discuss in what ways it is advertised or advertised, whether it is wise or not, why one considers it to be correct and the other to be wrong, but at least it is the headlight aimed at it. There's the media transparency law. The other reforms – many of which we have decided together here in the House – were also correct, were correct political answers, but then, when they are presented, also demand a serious debate on them. We have not therefore decided on transparency laws that we will then pull out anything that builds up, often also against better knowledge somehow rips out of the context and then cancels it as an accusation and equally as a condemnation, but to use this headlamp – just as I do now – and not only the amounts, but also every single order. The Media Transparency Act, which we have agreed together, is and remains particularly exemplary. I would like to refer to the reply of a parliamentary question which has already been made to the individual media. Questions 5 and 6, Decision and criteria for circuits: They are switched on by the Federal Press Service, but an essential factor – and this can also be well understood – is, of course, the market share of the media concerned according to the data of the current media analysis. The Media Transparency Act also offers countries, public institutions, all ministries the opportunity to understand where the focus and reasons have been placed, whether someone wants to reach the target group of young people or seniors, a high standard of living, for example, because it is a mass means of transport, or in the field of research entrepreneurship, and has therefore chosen a specific medium. All this detailed but serious discussion allows the media transparency law. Questions 7 and 8: The main objective of this cooperation with the “Kronen Zeitung” was to inform as many people as possible of the range of assistance provided by the citizen service via the service centre and how to use this assistance most quickly. The description of the advice cases is also intended to make people afraid of turning directly to civil service with their often small problems, but individually and therefore important to us politicians, in order to obtain concrete support here too. Cost: 2009: €330 000; 2010: €330 000; 2011: €590 000; 2012: €84 000, as of September 2012. Questions 10 and 11: According to the Federal Chancellor's Office, the Federal Chancellor's Office does not appoint any media agencies. As other ministries have done, it is not my responsibility, it is my responsibility. Questions 12 and 13: Here I also refer to the answer to the parliamentary question of 19. January 2012. As I am told, the BKA is always striving to make full use of all available discounts. These discounts – and that was your question – are deducted from the net price, no credits are issued. For my area of responsibility, I can therefore clearly rule out the fact that there are credits for advertising places. On questions 14 to 16: There were discussions between me as then Minister of Transport and various media professionals, including Hans Dichand, about how to increase the public image of the ÖBB at its real value – in the sense of the 40 000 people working there – of the achievements that the railways show up in European comparisons as the second best railway in Europe. After these talks, I informed Director-General Huber of this idea. He was more for it than for it, and he said that we can lift the image in this way. The witness agreement of Director General Huber also states exactly that. He said, In any case, I have not been pressured by anyone in connection with the payment of the “crown” campaign. This would also not be necessary, because I also considered the payment to be correct at the time, especially since it was very much about the ÖBB's media cooperation. In addition, I suggested that the aim of the campaign was to increase the company's image. From my point of view, the campaign was also designed accordingly. - Quote. Questions 17 and 18: As Minister of Transport, it was not my job to interfere in the operational processes in ministries or their companies. On question 19: The answer was written by my office after various votes. Questions 20 to 26: I cannot tell you anything about the detailed procedure, but there were, of course, ongoing discussions between the bmvit and its wholly owned subsidiary ÖBB, which is not only obvious, but also part of the responsibility as an owner. That's my responsibility, too. I was and I'm convinced it's right to point out critical things, even if you're making fun of something critical. I am convinced that the railway customers on the one hand know the great strengths of the ÖBB, but of course also feel subjective weaknesses. I don't know what's wrong with saying: Yes, there are things that are very fine, we are proud of it, and others that are not right! As Minister, I have the ambition, together with the company, to give in to my political responsibility if something is not right and to make it better. By the way, there is also an opinion from an expert appointed by the Court of First Instance. August 2012, and that says very clearly – I do not want to keep this from happening to you – I quote: Due to the very objective presentation and the partial use of metaphors, a high understanding is achieved in the presentation. All the statements made by the ministers are consistently serious and objective. Direct personal profileing of the person is not recognizable and would also be contrary to the applied technology of a testimonial. The technique of a testimonial requires a certain circle of knowledge to work as a testimonial with the element prominent personality. The ÖBB as a beneficiary of this action – this says a judicially sworn expert appointed by the court, Mr Pilz – benefits from the knowledge of the Minister. As a further reason for the Minister's authorisation as a testimonial, his role as Transport Minister can be considered. He is under the political responsibility of the railway. Among his tasks is to inform about the action of the railway. - Quote. Without being involved at the time, I have now learned that between the bmvit and the ÖBB it has been agreed that the bmvit supports the daughter, especially since it was about the success of accepting and answering the customer requests optimally. – This is the question, which is not directly related to the advertisement, but rather to the answer of questions to be answered by customers in this context. On questions 27 and 28: In principle, I note that there have been no cases in my knowledge where the order to a medium would have come from the bmvit, the contents would have been created entirely by the bmvit and the payment would have been made in the course of the course of the course. On question 29: The head of the corporate communications department, i.e. the actually responsible manager, will present it on 12. August 2012 clearly: I'll stick to my particulars. I know nothing about the fact that orders from the bmvit were simply given – i.e. what is claimed by some here, according to the type of Tibetan prayer mill – without being informed and able to consult with the Board of Directors. - Quote. According to these statements, it is correct that the person quoted by you in the request was no longer involved in content, but the person actually responsible. On questions 30 and 31, what the ASFINAG has to advertise for: I am convinced that advertisements are part of the information policy of companies and therefore an essential part of the real economy. By the way, I am also convinced that the acceptance of ASFINAG's customers represents an essential asset and an essential asset of the ASFINAG, because the political decisions that lead to enormous costs and investments, but also all that there is in wealth and values, may I tell you that it is a matter of political acceptance for me – and I would like to tell you that, although I was only 18 months Minister: [[Abg. Dr. Moser: You don't believe that yourself! The Austrians have no choice!]] Every minister who is responsible here will be interested in the fact that the investment he makes – the motorway vignette and all the other measures – has the feeling that the corresponding performance is the opposite. [[Interlocutory calls from Dr. Moser and Bucher]] So I don't care if the Austrians have the feeling that they have the same performance, or not. After all, these decisions must also be taken. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I can tell you, Mrs Moser, but I can tell you otherwise – on the question of how decent it is at all to advertise, the advertisement, as it is with advertising: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr Moser]] According to Focus Media 2011, €3.8 billion was added to the Austrian media. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Not from tax money!]] – No, but that means that private people are also entitled to advertising. [[Interim calls at FPÖ and BZÖ.]] You won't tell me that all those who advertise somewhere want to buy anything. They rightly also rely on advertising because it is part of their corporate policy, for image, for what they do, for activity to promote acceptance. [[Interlocutory calls from Dr. Moser and Bucher]] 1.8 billion of the €3.8 billion went to print media, and 1 billion of them again to newspapers. So I'm not the only one who believes that an advertisement also has a meaning. [[Abg. Dr. Hübner: It has a meaning!]] All Federal Ministries together have spent between €17 and €28 million on this type of information in recent years. The fact is: Without these advertising expenses of the economy, but also of the public, these media could not exist, which is a part of their funding, and the private would not do it if it did not have a sense, so it is also for the public. It is the task of a motorway construction company, which is in public possession, to inform the public, such as about motorway vignette, noise protection, road safety, to mention a joint action that I have no longer done, which the Minister of State has voted in the government. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: The “rettungsgasse” is anyway a dead end!]] One can be of different opinion on the escape routes, but that if one wants to have them, it is something that must be understandable, too, across all party borders. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Interruption with the FPÖ and the Abg. Bucher.]] On question 32: As Minister, I have conducted discussions with a number of editors of Austrian media, chief editors, editors, otherwise I refer to my answer to questions 27 and 28. On question 33: This is not true of my knowledge. On question 34: The Supervisory Board is responsible for the orders of the Board of Management. As you remind me so often of how these divisions are to be done, I would also like to make this clear. According to the Chairman of the Supervisory Board, your claim is therefore not applicable. – For those who do not read with the questions: That was the question of conflict with the ASFINAG Boards. On question 35: On the subject of ‘contract terminations’, reference should be made to the company. The question of the scale of claims after termination of a contractual relationship concerns the competences of the institutions of the company. On question 36: I don't know this agreement. On the question 37: To me there were no such attempts. This concerns the question of whether there were attempts to threaten negative reporting – not to me! On the question 38: This agreement is not known to me, even if you find it so funny. I have not reached an agreement on this. Question 39: No, I answered all the questions for best knowledge and conscience. On question 40: No other grants or subsidies are known to me. Question 41: Of course, I have discussed this question with SPÖ members, always stressing that the decision of the Members is to be made – this is also a matter of respect! Mr Pilz, if you consistently assume that a Member does not make a decision himself, then a committee of inquiry by Members would basically make no sense. [[Abg. Kickl: in hostages!]] But I think he makes sense, and Members have the right to make their decisions without any influence from members of the government. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grosz.]] On questions 42 and 43: I have also publicly expressed the clear position that everyone has to be available for a charge. The decision on this matter lies solely with the members of the Committee of Inquiry. On question 44: I am convinced of the correctness of the procedure and I have confidence in the investigative authorities. This distinguishes me from other parties, who always have great confidence, if it is the way they would like it to, and who, if anything does not work like that, suddenly begin to go to investigation authorities. That is why I do not have this differentiation, but I trust in this rule of law in principle the investigative authorities. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ing. Westenthal]] My personal assessment, which is based not least on the expert opinion requested by the Public Prosecutor's Office, from which I have also quoted a part, is that the procedure should be terminated – for me, questions 45 and 46 are questions that do not arise.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-09-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e22619	We are now going into the debate. I would draw attention to the fact that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, no speaker/no speaker may speak for more than 10 minutes, each club has an overall speaking time of 25 minutes. First of all, Mr Magistrate. Kogler. I'll set the clock up to 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-09-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e22651	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! The German Chancellor's answer and the course of today's debate and negotiation here in Parliament prove two things that are inevitably necessary: First of all – this will still concern us here immediately afterwards –: The Committee of Inquiry must become a minority right. And second: Mr Bundeskanzler or, above all, representatives of ÖVP and SPÖ, it is also useful, necessary and urgent that Mr Bundeskanzler comment on the accusations in the investigation committee. It is a difference as far as television is concerned, but also as regards this answer here. Mr. Federal Chancellor, if you say, on questions 20 and 26, you can't say anything about these processes now, then you have to quickly read what's inside, what you and your employees have had to do in these processes. As head of government, you should now be able to take over the coordination function of the Federal Government and be responsible for all ministries, especially as regards advertising and public appearances, and perhaps also consult the Werner Faymann of 2007 and 2008. But because all of this does not help, it would really be better – including for you – in this committee of inquiry, for which we are still fighting at the hour. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] I don't understand at all. I have the impression that you are originally so I assume that you have to believe what you say on television, what you said on other occasion that you would like to say so that you get a charge, a “invitation” as you have expressed yourself. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Street@item incidence access is by owner only]] We will be coming to the representatives of ÖVP and SPÖ. Then who prevents you from doing so? Obviously, this whole list of SPÖs and also the ÖVPs, but at least as far as your sector is concerned, is a very strange one. I think you're surrounded by the wrong consultants. It may be necessary at SPÖ to return the term “spin doctors” to its original, possibly Germanic language meaning, because something is no longer going on. You've got it in your hand. Do you really want us to know now, Mr. Cap, Mr. Pendl, that it's not the chancellor? He says it's up to you. Yeah, what's in there? Maybe we could try mediation, or could you just do more via TV? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bitch.]] Does the Federal Chancellor in ORF 2 have to give a speech so that the SPÖ club can get anything from what is supposed to be here? – So with this you can really stop, the thing is completely clear, and now we come to the serious point. The audit mission to the Examining Committee – soon we have anniversary when this was negotiated, since I was still involved – was negotiated in several, completely different chapters, with agreement. You of the ÖVP rightly insisted on the advertisements, too. You of the SPÖ then said: yes, but then the one from the Ministry of the Environment. And that's also in this audit assignment to the investigative committee inside. That's the point! The investigative committee must be able to carry out its mission, which he has received here from all of us. It cannot be that, with your help, with the help of Mr SPÖ and Mr ÖVP, what we have agreed to, a work order will be carried out to the committee in the middle of the way – we are only there – just because it may not be with the SPÖ and your group that the chancellor wants to come to the committee and say anyway. That can't be true! Look, the difference is perfectly clear now. The audit task has rightly become, because, Mr Bundeskanzler, it is not possible to compare it with any private ad volumes, but rather the misuse of tax funds in the room. That's it. There have already been the Court of Auditors' audit reports, including those ads which expressly state that it is against the Court of Auditors' recommendations for what is happening. The Court of Auditors is an institution of this National Council. That was a reason why this was recorded. And now nothing or hardly anything should happen? – We will not let that happen to you, you will not wonder. But it is also proof that it makes a difference whether you have to make a statement before the committee of inquiry or take a position here. Nevertheless, it was useful and necessary because we can go through a few other points here. It must be the most common thing in the world that government responsibility is also exercised before a committee of inquiry in Parliament – in this case before this committee of inquiry. In Germany this is not an affair at all. Mrs. Federal Chancellor Merkel will soon declare that many years ago, at a time when she was, for example, an environmental minister – not a topic, in public! If it were to act only 10 percent the way your false advisers have suggested, Mr. Bundeskanzler, it would have been gone. But in Austria, is that supposed to happen – and that after an attempt to restart in spring with the transparency laws that you did not argue with wrongfully here?- Oh, my God! That is all you can do about the image of the National Council and, in particular, that of the government parties. I mean, that's really the highest point now that the decision of the media transparency law or the anti-corruption package of a statement is to stand in the way of the U-committee. Now everything is messing up, but obviously with intention, and we'll go right back to your story. Mr. Cap, television alone will not be enough, but that shows what spirit child the SPÖ Group and also the ÖVP Group has already become, in one system - admittedly - other, but Breschnew has always spoken only from the TV, and that had to be enough. Putin's gonna do it again. Meanwhile, Gorbachev and Yeltzin once left the house, out of the Kremlin, but from Perestroika and real glass nost you obviously don't want to know anything. This is the new doctrine that exists, and I do not understand it at all, because, because of the accusations, it should actually be useful for you to make statements before this committee. But no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Now we come to the method you used there, which makes the whole thing more transparent. Mr Cap has already said it today: You have had to put something in your hands, and you have not been afraid of it – and this is the same for the ÖVP – starting already in the summer to throw a impeccable committee president with completely untenable accusations. This has increased since, from your point of view, it has not been sufficiently successful to accuse it of still criminally relevant behaviour, protocol counterfeiting and so on. That's the low point in here, that's really the low point! Enjoy yourself! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] You know, in a woman's office as chairman, you have obviously trusted this very easily. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr Graf has not even been treated nearer – not even in homeopathic doses – as has Mrs President Moser. [[Abg. Neubauer: impeccable chairmanship!]] This also draws an image of the SPÖ Group and the ÖVP Group how you are doing here. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It fits into the picture again. It affords the opportunity to pass through corruption laws in June. Now I'm saying, Thank God we have all finished these, because now it would no longer be possible. Thank God we have negotiated so successfully. They can also be seen. But what is happening here is not recognizable and has to be rejected. Similar to the Hypo and Banking Investigation Committee, similar to the Eurofighter Committee, if it gets really serious, it should be turned off. How was it then at the Banking Investigation Committee when Raiffeisen came to the agenda when Hypo Carinthia came to the agenda? We could have saved many billions if you had intervened in good time. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] There you have turned off from the ÖVP and the SPÖ, as well as the Causa Sleep, BAWAG, Telekom East Shops, which are now known to be back on top. [[Call the SPÖ: That's wrong!]] [[further calls to the SPÖ]] Sleep never came to the committee, although he was invited because you already signaled, the committee has an end. And this time you do the same game again. And that's a lot, it's about millions and hundreds of millions where the taxpayer has been damaged - from Telekom, from the mobile phone with these East business. In a blue-black With the help of the red BAWAG, era has been committed a million fraud against the taxpayer, and you want to prevent the investigation again. But we will not let that happen to you either, and we will, at least, try to see that the truth is coming to light, because there is clear evidence that there have been brutal transactions around the Austrian Federal Government and with the help of a politically very involved bank with the Ostmafia, which have led to the fact that there has even been a mafia criminal murder in the vicinity of Vienna. Some of you know that, and now the information should be prevented. You have to be able – and now I am at the last point – to reconcile this with your conscience by ÖVP and SPÖ. How do you explain this? How do you explain that you do your own job assignment? [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] I apply on occasion for the pledge of your salaries, because you don't want to work at all. It's no longer serious to take. You have to go back to the way of the Enlightenment. Today there is still the chance that there are two to three hours left, and you should consider that well, otherwise you will get the bill presented for it yourself. We'll put you in any case.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-09-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e22757	Next, Mr. Dr. Kräuber. I'll set the clock up to 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-09-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e22778	Madam President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Mr Kogler, with all due respect for the heat of the fight, but Breschnew comparisons and coup accusations, this is not a contribution to the political culture that the Greens are so focused on, and I strongly reject that. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Book]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Oils: no scale either!]] Ladies and gentlemen! We have overall consensus that much has been achieved in the Committee of Inquiry – Telekom, BUWOG, Blue Light Radio – that there has been a moral picture here, systematic corruption. – So many times to this successful part. Unfortunately, there are many, many topics outside of the Committee of Inquiry: the hypo-intermediate deal, for example – how did this happen? –, indebtedness that I remember – Michaelis, the lawyer Hlawati at the ÖIAG – the Grasser accounts in Liechtenstein or the Eurofighter commissions. Unfortunately, there is still much to discover in Austria, and many studies will still be necessary because no one should somehow be in safety that a grip on the state fund or corruption is not suspected in any way. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ing. Hofer]] [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Petzner and Dr Pirklhuber]] To advertise, citizenship and the other still open things [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ing. Westenthal]] There's a schedule, there's witnesses, there's a program, and that's what you have to negotiate. We must find a compromise here, and, of course, the opposition must also be interested in doing this for as long as possible, pointing it out and being ready for consensus. What we definitely need – and I really agree with Mr Kogler: We need, according to Germany's model, the Committee of Inquiry as a minority law. We need clear rules of play, but it must not be a political arena, because at present – and there the population is already a picture – this is already a tribunal. [[Call:That's what the cap always says.]] This is partly really ugly polemics, and there are also qualifications from colleagues in the National Council who are not to be accepted. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr Pirklhuber]] It already has the character of an Inquisition, and one ad is hunting the other. That is not the case in Germany, that is the huge difference. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber.]] There is an objective atmosphere, there is fairness, there is a sense of responsibility for the whole, and there is respect for the image of politics and democracy. We are far from that, but we are all responsible for that. [[Abg. Petzner: Now at once!Unknown term type: "%s".?]] [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Is there in Germany?]] That is why, I believe, it is still a very important task to address this issue in this legislative period: a reform of the Committee of Inquiry in accordance with the German model. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Now to the urgent request and to the ads, to the relationships. The Federal Chancellor has already put the figures on the table: A total of billions in the advertising industry are invested by private individuals, by the public sector for good reasons. [[Abg. Grosz: Can the colleague of herbs actually speak freely?]] There are political, economic objectives. The federal government – so that it has a scale and does not believe that it would be constantly thrown around with summaries – for example, in the case of media circuits in total in 2007, a proportion of 0.6 percent; only so that we can really recognize the relationships here. There is already a very, very inaccurate argument here, because all the ministries apply, also the Federal Government as a whole, and the Federal Chancellor in fact, also as the then Minister of Transport, has an average volume at his disposal. – And now, just because of the announcement of Mr Vilimsky from FPÖ, should this always be the focus? It can't be! To the ÖBB, ladies and gentlemen. We remember, we discussed this again and again in this House. At the time, a real bashing – i.e. a slender step – was operated by the ÖBB. This has been very, very irresponsible and does not show any particular economic competence. Because if I systematically go about its own, 100% state-owned companies, this is not at all understandable. It is a matter of course that a Minister of Transport, who has responsibility for the department, is standing before the company. That's just the logical advertising carrier – that's an antithesis – and says: Yes, we are behind this state-owned company with its staff, with productivity, with the enormous importance of the ÖBB. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It is a classical misrepresentation in this context, as if it had been used by the then Minister of Transport Werner Faymann. The opposite is the case. This is clearly evident in the opinion, which is not a SPÖ opinion, but one that was written by government authorities. It has used the ÖBB massively. And honestly, If I look at the long-term effect, the ÖBB are today in an excellent water supply and after the dark season, after the year 2000, have caught themselves again. To the ASFINAG – and this also indignants me –: Again, this is another classical misrepresentation. It is thought, as it were, that the redundancies of the three managers at the time would have had to do with the fact that they were not willing to do with the Minister of Transport. I myself have not yet been a member of the government in opposition times – since the current Federal Chancellor and former Transport Minister was not yet a member of the government – at least 15 times the proceeds of all these managers in the ASFINAG – I am now saving you the names – because they were simply incapable. Finally, they have also been convened by a Supervisory Board chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, the Media Transparency Act. My God, I have been running from Pontius to Pilate for many years, so that we finally get guidelines – along the Court of Auditors’ guidelines – that define how ads and government advertising look. [[Abg. May. Kogler: And that's why we don't need an investigation committee now?- Oh, my God!]] At that time I tried to convince the ÖVP to convince the FPÖ to convince the BZÖ. The Federal Chancellor Faymann with the Secretary of State Ostermayer has succeeded! [[Abg. Head: There he shines!]] Now we have a media transparency law that was not possible before. [[Abg. Head: Thank you, herbs!]] [[Abg. Booker: Thank you, Mr. Herbs, great!]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: Thank you!]] In this respect, one must recognise that there has been a development and that it is a very, very positive one. One last thing: I hope there's an agreement. We need compromises in parliamentary control. I also very much hope that the situation, which has become so acute, will calm down in some way. We are all finally called on to work on matters, and I appeal to everyone to complete this project, this committee of inquiry, so that we can no longer get into such situations that this will be a joint project. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-09-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e23006	Mr Klubobmann's head is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-09-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e23028	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! Dear Josef Cap, dear Josef Ostermayer! We need to note, after Günther Herbs spoke, that he was the initiator of the Media Transparency Act. But paternity disputes do not bring anything at all and not at all in this place. [[Abg. Grosz: Mr. Klubobmann's head, how about the "thiebs" in the SPÖ? We'd like to know!]] Ladies and gentlemen, the Committee of Inquiry, which has been working for more than a year, has done a great deal of its job, as I mean, successfully. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: So four out of seven is more! Is four more than three?]] But it is still open, in addition to citizenship and the chapter of telecom business abroad, in the East – in concrete Bulgaria – above all a topic, namely the advertising activity of government and close-to-state companies. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: We would have liked to know this with the “Dieben” in the SPÖ!]] I think that the first part of this chapter, namely the one in which it concerns the general advertising activity of government agencies, is to say: Ministries – no more problematic – except when it comes to creating transparency regarding the way in which ministries – as well as other public authorities, such as the city of Vienna, can be involved – distribute their advertising activity to the various media and according to which criteria the distribution is carried out. And we've just tried to clarify this with the media transparency law. The Media Transparency Act will help to show how all this is handled by the individual ministries and by the various bodies, and, I am afraid, it will also show that this is happening very arbitraryly and in favour of some Boulevard media there and there, but I do not think that this will fall into an area with the ministries and the ministers responsible, which, I say now, is particularly important for a committee of inquiry, except to show it. Something else is already dealing with the whole issue of advertising by ÖBB and ASFINAG and the question of who commissioned it, and so on. I think that is a chapter that really needs to be informed by this committee of inquiry – that is why we have included it in the investigation commission. I believe that information is important here, and it has also been pledged by all sides to help and to participate in it. [[Abg. Bucher: And where is this information to take place?]] That is why, ladies and gentlemen, I, too, as I said in my speech on the Rules of Procedure, am not very happy about the development that this Committee of Inquiry has taken in recent weeks, starting before the summer. The best proof that the two government parties have not only actively participated in this investigation committee, but have at all enabled it to do so – yes, we have all decided together – is that until just before the summer there has been no or almost no problems in finding dates, in the decision of load lists, in decisions on file deliveries and much more. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: That's why it's not possible!]] The problems then started suddenly before the summer; I have already done it, I do not want to repeat again now. [[Abg. Oillinger: Who's started?]] We had reached an agreement on dates before the summer with four parties, over five dates for the settlement of the remaining negotiating points. These five dates were exactly the five that we proposed to the opposition parties today, of course, a little time-consuming, for a decision-making and the continuation of the committee. The two government parties at least agreed with an opposition party on a load list for the remaining meetings. So let us not pretend, as if there had not been constructive negotiations on the handling of the remaining points – and thank God, as I am now hearing from our speakers, is now again due to our present proposal! This proposal for a deadline, which we have tabled today, the proposal for the resolution of the remaining chapters which we have handed over to you, seems to be a move in the negotiations that have taken place, and I hear they are running relatively well now. But the time for the withdrawal of this deadline request is, of course, damn short, it will soon be voted here. However, I have already pointed out in my Rules of Procedure that, pursuant to Article 45 of the Rules of Procedure, even today's decision-making does not have to mean the end of this committee, but that, of course, in that meeting which follows the deadline, a majority of the House may decide to extend this period until the Committee has received a written report. That is, ladies and gentlemen: I think it will be very reasonable – by the way, the opposition has already announced this through the media – to be very quick so that we do not go until the plenary session on 16 May. October must wait to agree on a special meeting of this House. We'll be happy to apply for such a thing today. I would suggest that we make them the next Monday, after your BZÖ-clause on Friday, Saturday, and we have until then time to agree on a timetable, on cargo lists, on file delivery decisions and so on, best with all five parties. And then, in an orderly manner, the examination of all the outstanding points, including this advertising award at ÖBB and ASFINAG, can be studied jointly, cleanly and properly in the way the Committee worked until mid-July or early July. This is our proposal, and I think it is very constructive.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-09-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e23136	Mr. Dr. Rosenkranz is now speaking. I'll set the clock up to 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-09-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e23157	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Estimated members of the Federal Government! The Federal Chancellor, in his reply to the request for urgent request from the Greens, has requested one and one thing: a differentiated view. A differentiated view – we would like to see them too. We would like to see in the Committee of Inquiry, where all that we depend on paper reports, in discrepancies, on what you have said to us here, all this can be really differentiated, that what members of the Committee already know in full due to the file deliveries can actually be used in the public for a differentiated consideration. This, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, has nothing to do with the question of criminal responsibility. The Examining Committee – and this has already been said several times – is not a court, not a substitute court, but it is an instrument of Parliament, the elected representatives of the people who have the political responsibility to clarify, and that is what the citizens want. What the citizens of us parliamentarians as a whole, but also especially in the Committee of Inquiry, expect, this expectation is clear, as the survey values show, and we also have to fulfil them accordingly. That means: A turning away of the Committee cannot be done in the sense of the Austrians, and, I do not give up hope, will not take place because SPÖ and ÖVP cannot permit this in the eyes of the citizens. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This whole thing obviously is all about now: Is it now a “Faymann Investigation Committee” or not? - That's not true. It's an aspect. There are many other points of the seven that we have not worked on. Three points have already been mentioned. The Federal Managing Director of Herbs said: Much has been achieved in this Committee of Inquiry. – Much has been achieved, but it has not yet been achieved. That is why we need to see that the Committee's work continues. Mr Herbe also said: A moral image has occurred. – This is not yet complete, however, because it will be possible to clarify the political responsibility – and here I cannot release the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany from his responsibility as Minister of Infrastructure as part of his work – whether it is actually possible in Austria that a Ministry will issue orders to print media and without any previous question pay the invoice without commenting to a third party. It's not possible if that's not possible! There can't be that! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We have now heard the statements of the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany. It must also be possible to ask the public about things that the prosecutor has raised in a report. – Mr Bundeskanzler, you have not mentioned this either: The prosecutor says: What the Federal Chancellor said in his statement is a mere claim of protection. What does that mean, that's a safeguard claim? That it is not true what the Federal Chancellor said in his consent. That's what we want to clarify. But this place here is not the right one, Mr Bundeskanzler, because I am speaking in the direction of my fellow Members. In the Committee of Inquiry, it would be possible for you to face up to these questions, as politeness would be offered to you. There is the adequate possibility of a question and answer game, which will enable you to obtain a corresponding information. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We therefore believe that this investigation committee will have to meet further, including on citizenship and Telekom East business. This must not fall under the table just because now the question is whether Faymann is coming into the committee or not. There are many, many other things that the Austrians are also interested in. It has also fallen to the point that the impression is given that in Austria media are available for sale. I wouldn't say that's the case. The only thing I see – and there is evidence from the media and also through-thinked statements – is that it is possible – and that is precisely part of this moral image – that a ministerial cabinet orders something, buys what is not estimated in a budget of a subsidiary, for example, and then, if that doesn't work, people are practically put into the window of job loss. This would be a moral picture which I would like to clarify in a committee and which the people also want to clarify. The citizens want to know whether at the head of this republic is currently a German chancellor, where it is common if someone does not dance after his pipe, that then simply is threatened with job loss or other disadvantages. This is to be explained in a committee. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr. Federal Chancellor, because of the fact that you are being held here as accused, you have filed and have also mentioned this court opinion. A German expert has found the advertising value of this ad campaign and said that everything is fine. I would like to tell you from my experience that a court opinion, which has been prepared in writing, is usually not believed without criticism by each side, but there is something else, and that is what is called an opinion discussion. [[Abg. Dr. Herbs: You're making fun of yourself!]] Colleagues, if you believe that a targeted educational work in some form is ridiculous, then think of what you spread about the media yesterday: [[Abg. Dr. Herbs: You're ridiculous!]] The Federal Chancellor will only come to the Committee if all the other ministers have been in the 2-hour rhythm since 2000. Take note of which members of the Federal Government are currently subject to criminal proceedings and which are not! - Because you indicated it! [[New call for tender of the Abg. Dr. Herbs.]] That's the funny one. That's your tactic because you're dirty. What you're doing is anonymous ads, always against the liberals, because you believe that you can beat capital. You don't even have the mumm that you put yourself behind it. This is your tactic: hide cowardly in anonymity and then “smooth out”. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] No, no, no, my colleague, herbs! I would like to ask these experts in the Committee on Inquiry, which I would like to ask: What is the advertising value of this advertisement for a minister? He did not say anything about that at all. And then I would also like to ask him about the advertising value of some personal things, which advertising value should have for the ÖBB, which the then Minister Faymann may have eaten for breakfast.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-09-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e23249	Mr Klubobmann Bucher is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-09-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e23270	Ladies and gentlemen! If it is necessary to speak out to defend the Federal Chancellor of the SP-Federal Managing Directors, then it is quite clear how the wind blows, where the decisions are taken: not here in Parliament, not in the SPÖ's Group Chairman in the Investigation Committee, but in the SP Party's headquarters, what needs to be done. Otherwise herbs would not have been stiff enough to demand things that the SPÖ Clubobmann has promised to the SPÖ for many years in this embarrassing attack, which he received at the speaker's desk. This always comes when the decision is to be made: Is an investigation committee now set up or not? or the decision is to be made: Is an investigation committee being turned off or not? So the SPÖ always comes with this glorious idea: Yes, we now have to consider procedural techniques, procedural law in the investigation committee and minority law in order to set up a committee of inquiry – in order to divert from the actual plan. And the actual plan is completely transparent, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ: They have pursued the goal from the very beginning, if it comes so far as to invite the Federal Chancellor, then we turn off. Then let's turn off! SPÖ and ÖVP will end. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] We had just these fears from the very beginning. At every stage of the Committee of Inquiry, we were cooperative in order to find out without compromise, of course to invite the former own or close-up people, and also – as far as Mr Petzner's survey is concerned – to question and then to clarify them. There was the greatest possible respect and recognition from all sides of the House. Everyone has seen the intensity of the BZÖ working in. At the beginning, we dealt with the issues of evidence of the FPÖ, including those of the BZÖ. And then it comes to those blatant evidence themes where the SPÖ is in the row – and then it's over. It was seen that this was so properly staged by the party headquarters. The demand was clear. There was an error from Mrs. Moser. Yeah, she got it more or less. And you used this mistake shamelessly and uncompromisingly by saying: So, now Mrs President Moser has to resign; if she does not resign, there is a committee of inquiry! We have tried to communicate and say at this stage: We shall then make a change in the Presidency, and the Obfrau representatives shall take over the Presidency in stages. These have also been praised by the President; that would not be a problem. They have also repeatedly proved at the last meetings that they can do very well for the Presidency. It would have been open to us, no matter who made the presidency. Ms Moser could have opened the Committee of Inquiry and then simply handed it over to her alternate. - No, they didn't want to do that on the part of the government parties. They wanted Mrs. Moser to resign and thus to be confused. Even since Ms. Moser resigned after the opposition parties – all of them together – met the government parties, you basically showed no understanding and wanted to turn off immediately. And this plan, ladies and gentlemen, you had from the beginning. That is what I am going to put to you, the Red and Black Members, straight ahead. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] They had the plan from the beginning, if it's so far that German Chancellor Faymann has to declare the truth in the Investigation Committee, then we'll close the door so that no one comes in and comes to the microphone. And that's exactly what we blame you. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, especially from the ÖVP, it is clear to you that you are asking the Foreign Minister and that this Foreign Minister and now his State Secretary, who is supposed to provide good wind at European level for Austria, will of course be asked the question: What's going on inside the ÖVP? Its own members of the EU are very much under fire – Strasser case. And in your own country, you have banned and turned away the investigation committee. In this democratic party, there is not the need for the actual need to clarify everything, but rather the desire to put everything under the carpet. That, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, you will have to endure at European level – and that the reputation of Austria and the politics of Austria is at stake. We have all agreed together to set up a committee of inquiry, all parties, when we made the decision, that we are doing a pure table, because our own reputation is at stake, from each of us! That is why I do not understand that we are now turning away from this line and trying again to cover up everything and turn it all off, not taking a unique opportunity to continue, namely now, and to continue this investigation committee in this successful phase in which it was. – This is what we want from the BZÖ: do not turn off, but continue to negotiate and, of course, do not apply for a deadline. We know from the Banking Investigation Committee what that means. Under the word "witness of a witness", all persons will apologize because they know that the U-committee will be turned off in October. That means you can pack up now if you agree to this deadline request. Then this research committee is history, because every person who receives an invitation in the future will project something else, will apologise or apologise, and then you only have quite no opportunity to question the witnesses. This, ladies and gentlemen, is our call for red and black to continue the investigation committee, not to vote on this request for deadlines today and to return to the negotiating table at the same time to decide on the dates, to decide the load of the persons in charge, to allow the invitations to be received and not to set a time limit so that they can be determined quickly and also detected.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-09-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e23364	Mr Brosz is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-09-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e23386	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Mein Ladies and gentlemen! In this urgent question and in its reply some points have become very clear why this statement by Federal Chancellor Faymann needs to be made in the investigation committee. I can't give any details of the procedures, it was said. – The questions that can be read about the ÖBB were very specific and have been very specific about whether you or your staff have become active in your cabinet in order to take certain steps. This flat-rate answer, however, does not help us exactly. A committee of inquiry would have the opportunity to consult employees, to consult people from both sides and to make comparisons when different representations appear. It is the sense of a committee of inquiry to find out step by step where the truth lies. And this very point has so far been prevented. By the way, in a committee of inquiry – which is always the wonderful – there is also an opinion that says: This does not have any meaning under criminal law. – Parliament’s Committee of Inquiry has the task of clarifying political responsibility. There will be no court in the world that will condemn you if you, as Minister of Transport, make comprehensive campaigns on transport safety, which says: In winter it can snow. – The question is whether this is useful. And this question of political relevance, the sense of meaning is political clarification and not criminal law. This is always mixed here. The last point. This has now been so often liked: Ads also turn others, which are useful, everywhere is advertised. – It may be. The difference is that ads are usually paid themselves. And in the moment when ads are not paid themselves, but ordered and the bill goes elsewhere, there is a political need for clarification, Federal Chancellor. You should face this one. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] That was an aha experience for me: As long as Mr Jarolim from SPÖ has sat in the investigation committee and Peter Pilz and Gabi Moser have always told me that there is quite an intensive participation of SPÖ in the investigation work, I thought: Interesting, something may have changed. And then came the day on which John Jarolim was known to leave the committee of inquiry and is replaced by the leader of the political groups Otto Pendl. Now Otto Pendl is not only a coincidence mayor in the community I live in, but also a member of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. In this we conducted negotiations for two years on the question of the Committee of Inquiry as a minority law. By the way: This one time Federal Chancellor Faymann said: I'd come if I were loaded. The other time, Mr Cap said: I signed: Committee of Inquiry as a minority law. – And both cases had a commonness: Negotiations came not Cap and not Faymann, but Otto Pendl. Otto Pendl also came to negotiate the minority right to set up an investigation committee. The impression was already obvious: Pendl had an order from above. It's not supposed to come out. In the debate, it was exciting that the issue had been debated: Who decides if there are ambiguities? We have not really agreed on the question: Should there be a procedure, should there be an arbitration body? There was a crucial situation. I can well remember these, because it was such an argument: ÖVP, BZÖ, Greens were tending to set up a judicial arbitration agency. FPÖ and SPÖ have said no, they rather want an arbitration court. Then Mr Fichtenbauer took a step and said: Okay, I'm gonna break through this standstill now. I can imagine, on important questions, that there is also a judicial decision there. And right from this meeting it was over. At the end of this meeting, the seeming battle that Otto Pendl had waged was over and the SPÖ closed. All the other four political groups have said, okay, judicial arbitration. But the SPÖ was out of the negotiations right now. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Whenever it comes to the SPÖ,!]] Thus it was clear that Otto Pendlist was a signal – and this signal is also radiating. Mr Pilz has just been talking again. To the extent that the information is correct, the agreement on the request that can be clarified today depends on a political group, and that is the SPÖ Group. There seems to be a broad agreement between four political groups that it is possible to take another three days in the U Committee so that the outstanding issues can be dealt with. There's a group on which it hangs. Now, apparently, the answer is: Otto Pendlentscheidet. He's out right now and he's making this decision. As a clubman, Josef Cap said at lunch, if there is this joint request, the deadline application will be withdrawn. There is now the clarity that there can be a decision that this request can be there even before the end of this emergency. It is therefore exclusively up to the SPÖ whether an agreement is now reached and so that this deadline is in default. Maybe you should consider: If this agreement does not exist, there will be an oral report at the next meeting of the Committee of Inquiry. And after Gabriela Moser's resignation, the first vice-president to hold the face of political Enlightenment in Austria, his name is Otto Pendl. I'm asking you if You really want this committee of inquiry to be ended with a report by Otto Pendlben and whether you believe that this can regain confidence in politics in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-09-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e23468	Mrs Mag. Lapp is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-09-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e23500	Madam President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Thank you, Mrs. Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! You have just heard the frustration that Mr Brosz has in Trumau, because the Greens are not very strong and Otto Pendlal's successful mayor is concerned about the concerns of the population. Mr Brosz presented this. [[Abg. May. Kogler: My God!]] - I'm glad you could talk. Let's go to the Investigation Committee! [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, you see here the request made by the government groups to the other political groups regarding the continuation of the Committee of Inquiry. It has always been focused by Mr Pilz on the fact that only German Chancellor Faymann has to be invited, which is the most important thing for the Committee of Inquiry. And that's what we're meeting. Why do we face this? – When Werner Faymannim came as Minister of Transport in 2007, he was the first minister to actively care for ÖBB. [[Abg. Ing. Hofer: He's not on the list at all!]] The previous Transport Ministers and State Secretarys have filed, locked up, convict the workers as tachinians and lazy people and have not taken care of the company ÖBB at all. [[Abg. May. Kogler: He's not on the list at all! You've got the wrong excuse again!]] Media cooperation was set up by the new Minister of Transport in 2007. These media cooperations are important. Here is the comparison with Telekom course manipulations and BUWOG painting and gambling payments, where people have managed their own pockets and put the money from taxpayers into their own pockets, which, ladies and gentlemen, is a groundless monsterry, is in no relation and is opposed! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Bookbooker: You decided that yourself!]] There are legislative changes in media cooperation. There have been changes here, everything is done. But my colleague, Pilz, does not remember these days. Ladies and gentlemen! One thing I noticed in the Committee of Inquiry: that President Moser had the most to do with her colleague, Dr. Peter Pilz, because he did not follow any rules, was always not in agreement with her presidency and did not address arguments. [[Abg. Oils: Why did you say that you were distrustful?- Oh, my God!]] – Karl Oellinger, I am glad that you are doing this for your group colleagues, but in my opinion – you were not there. [[Abg. Ollinger: This is absurd!]] [[Abg. Oils: No, thank God!]] - That's why you're talking to me now, okay. It is also true that, yesterday, Mrs Moser said in the media that she had not resigned, but she had set the way free. She should have said this best to Dr. Peter Pilzsagen, because he talked about Gabriela Moser's resignation in the early days. [[Abg. May. Kogler: We didn't do what fungus wanted! That is why the Committee is being turned off!]] – So please, talk more about each other, that would also improve the climate here in the House. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Hörl.]] I would now like to start at this meeting of the Committee of Inquiry, which we had in the summer. For me, that was a situation that I considered to be a very big parliamentary failure, and where I see that we still have to fight with it now. A request, a four-party application was not approved by the presidents and not voted on as unlawful. Then there were various discussions between the leaders of the political groups and the President. And then there was another meeting of the Examining Committee, and the chairman has said concerning this request that, although she now allows him to do so, he is still illegal in his opinion. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Yes and?! That's incredible!]] And I don't think that's reasonable. It has also been true that at this Committee of Inquiry the chairman made a statement, and we were then able to read this statement in a word-identifiably in the APA. [[Abg. May. Kogler: So what?- Oh, my God!]] And this, ladies and gentlemen, is really a desavowing of the colleagues in a committee of inquiry! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] You can see here our schedule, our suggestions. [[Keeping an application up to date]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: May we book you for our election campaign?]] I think it is important that it is now being further discussed that further efforts are being made to fight a compromise. I know that all the leaders of the political groups are trying very hard to find a compromise and are now fighting for further work on this committee in hours of negotiations. But, ladies and gentlemen, at the nose ring of Dr. Peter Pilz, we do not like to be led through Parliament.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-09-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e23739	Mrs Fürntrath-Moretti is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-09-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e23760	Madam President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! In one point I really have to agree with my previous speaker: I am also the main member of the Committee of Inquiry, and I also note, Mrs Moser: I am so sorry, but with a competent and independent presidency, we would really have saved this debate today. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Kogler.]] Until recently, I had hoped that the Greens, in particular, would still be moving and that reason would prevail. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: We moved!]] But it's known that hope lasts to die, maybe something comes about. [[Abg. Ing. Hofer: But she has made the way clear!]] [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Does she have to nail to the cross?]] Regrettably, it is true that Mrs Moser is very strongly influenced by Mr Pilz – my previous speaker said it. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Your predecessor claimed the opposite! You can't even listen meaningfully!]] I understand, of course, that Mr Pilz is interested in the fact that there is a vertebra, because it is really bitter when he loses his stage. But now on the essential issue, the issue of advertising of members of the government. Of course, it is legitimate for a Federal Chancellor or a Minister or a State Secretary to communicate his work, which he does for the Austrians, accordingly. Of course, it is also necessary to advertise in media. And that these ads are not free, that's probably clear to all of us. What is not all right, however, is the switching of ads in the same media, permanently using only a preferred boulevard and thus creating a court report. This, ladies and gentlemen, can and must not be! Nor should it be, ladies and gentlemen, that ads of state or semi-state companies benefit a person more than the company itself. I am also very, very glad that we have passed the media law. And not you, Mr Bundeskanzler, have decided, but we Members have decided to do so – only to clarify. The copyright on it has almost Karlheinz Kopf, our clubman. So I'm scattering Klubobmann Karlheinz KopfRosen and a few gooseflowers to Mr. State Secretary Ostermayer. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] As Mr Pirklhuber said this morning that today is a black day for Austrian parliamentarianism: I cannot understand this at all, because the Greens always want their minority to determine the majority. [[Abg. May. Kogler: The Pirklhuber is guilty of why the Investigation Committee cannot continue to work?]] And please, there really can't be that in a democracy. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: The Pirklhuber must resign!]] Please calm down, colleague. I'm a bully, don't get upset! Ladies and gentlemen, we do not want to bring the public behind the light. We want to clarify, we stand for enlightenment, but we want serious information. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Only the Pirklhuber will stop you!]] And I really ask you, jump over your shadow! Our clubman said there are proposals on the table. Negotiating with us, and we will work together!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-09-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e23932	Next speaker: Mr Vilimsky. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-09-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e23954	Madam President. High house! I really don't understand the ÖVP. [[Abg. Wheeler: Ah? That's something new!]] There will be in this Committee of Inquiry Their representatives over half a year, three-quarters of a year as the dancers have been showing, over a long period of time, the ÖVP is misrepresented as the corruption party – partly not quite incorrect – but then, if for the first time there is a chance to convey the values that you have put, namely transparency, openness and trust – they have formed their own “honorate” that is to watch over your policy – then you make the ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ the the wall and form with this a cover-up coalition red-black embossed. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] There you should actually get used to, take yourself at the nose ring and ask yourself the question of how much more you want to ride into this debacle, where you're already stuck inside. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the Lord behind me, the Federal Chancellor Faymann, is probably very mad at me, and I do not rule out that sometime a revenge action is coming because I just sent this article on the journey in 2011, and this is not to drive me out of a Justament situation with it for a few hours, but because I have observed these actions over many years. Let's go back to the time when the Lord was now German Chancellor Faymann Town Councillor in the municipality of Vienna, with his employee Ostermayer, and at that time was already known that there were huge volumes of advertisements to various newspapers. [[Abg. May. Lapp: Good work done!]] Unfortunately, it was not possible to find a majority to set up a committee of inquiry at the Vienna level to clarify the question of the extent to which undertakings in public ownership or influence were also used at that time to advertise on foreign account. I mention that – and this is the basis of my case-law – because it was never my intention to operate general media bashing or to put it somewhere that the media would be bought. This was not the subject of my presentation of the matter, and it was never the subject of my case, whether the ads of the then Minister of Transport Faymann were beautiful or were less beautiful, whether they were effective from a commercial point of view or whether they were less effective, whether it was better to advertise in the newspaper A or in the newspaper B. That's why it never happened. What it was about is advertising on a foreign account. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] What it was about is to put pressure on public companies such as the ÖBB and the ASFINAG to be pressured as Transport Minister and current SPÖ chiefs to advertise to the Lord at that time's Minister of Transport and without involving the Board of Directors by smuggling the whole thing past the board of directors or perhaps even requiring the board of directors to sanction it. In my view, there has been clear abuse of power and infidelity, and that was also a basis for the prosecutor's office, the basis on which it has determined, and it is also the basis on which we are discussing today whether or not Mr. Federal Chancellor Faymann should be invited to the Investigation Committee in future. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haberzetl.]] And please stop saying ads are good! – I accept that, it is necessary on a small Austrian reader market that newspapers receive advertisements. That's all right, and there should be a competition. But what cannot be done is to misuse its ministerial function with an abuse of office, to stop, to advertise public companies, and then de facto to advertise at the expense of railway customers and the vignette payer on his own account. That's the disgrace that belongs to the derisory. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I would like to ask Mr Cap – whom I have greatly appreciated until recently, because of a single circumstance, namely because I have taken him away from his commitment to parliamentaryism – how to proceed. It has advocated minority rights and has established research committees as minority rights. Only: Today, a majority of this committee of inquiry, which you, Mr Herbe, wherever you may be, are to end yesterday as a minority law. At times, burlesque arguments are chosen, such as: Federal Chancellor Faymann does not need to come to the investigation committee anyway, because he had already said everything in the ORF. I would really like to have a serious discussion on how to proceed. Are we going to make such a kind of judge-barbara-salesch show in Austria, to which people, if you want to know something, will be invited to television in the afternoon and then the Parliament is de facto disabled? – The main difference between a plauder hour in public and public law Television or wherever, or answering a urgent request and an investigation committee, are up to three years in prison unless the truth is said. And there are documents, because of which much more can be asked in detail, and there is a duty of truth. What else does everything have to happen?, I ask the ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP. It is obvious what has happened, namely that a person, using his ministerial function, is suspected of being commissioned to advertise on his own account. And after your people have been presented for half a year, a three-quarters of a year like the dancer bears, and you have laughed over there, you are now taking action where more or less four parties could say: [[towards SPÖ]] Yes, let's invite this Federal Chancellor!- Oh, my God! - I don't think that's all right. But it is not only the causa of the Federal Chancellor who employs this SPÖ, there are many more cases in the area of the Social Democrats. We have had the Minister of Defence to visit this morning, and he is still doing so in a different way. If you look at Mr. Darabos as a defence minister not making individual ads at all, but buying an entire magazine at the same time, with 150 000 € from the budget of his house, then I say that there is really a purchase of opinion – not with the investment policy, since I don't assume a purchase of opinion, but if Mr Darabos uses 150 000 € from his budget to establish a magazine that does nothing but apply for his “professional” then it is highly inappropriate. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] On the basis of this statement of facts, we are discussing today whether we can go into the depths, whether we can explain political responsibility, whether, in future, there are really criminal precepts against Chancellor Faymann who gain even more substance. I cannot predict this, but one thing I can already say today: that, on the basis of these facts, the subsequent surveys, the subsequent investigations, the intervention of the Supreme Prosecutor's Office, one could be achieved here, namely that this practice is really discontinued. I do not believe that any minister still dares to copy this model once more and to be advertised for his own purposes on a foreign account. There – and this is what I am writing to us, the Freedom Party – has been achieved something good: something good for the taxpayer, something good for parliamentarianism and something good for democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-09-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e24049	Mr Petzner is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-09-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e24070	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! In the first place, I should like to make a fundamental comment on this Committee of Inquiry on the Enlightenment of Corruption. Günther Kräub, Federal Managing Director of SPÖ, has made statements here today, such as: this investigation committee is comparable to an inquisition, which is a tribunal, where the criminalisation of the Federal Chancellor is carried out. Mr Klubobmann Cap has explained that this is all the task of the judicial authorities to investigate this, we did not need to address the issue of advertising in the investigation committee and so on and so on. Do you know what I notice in this regard? – As long as the investigation committee concerned the other parties, especially the FPÖ and BZÖ, you did not bring all these arguments, as everything did not matter to you. But now, when it comes to the SPÖ itself, you are bringing these very arguments into the meeting. And this maneuver is very, very transparent: As long as it's about the other parties, you're for full investigation, you're full, but as soon as it's about you, ladies and gentlemen of the Social Democrats, you don't want to know anything about Enlightenment. That's just the point: You do not want to know anything more about information, so that you even go so far and are willing to turn off and end this investigation committee by deadline. That's your strategy you're pursuing. In contrast, look at how the BZÖ behaved: We behaved exactly the other way round. We have known ourselves offensively for information. Together with our Allianceman and Klubobmann Josef Bucher, we have also arranged for order in our own ranks. We have said that the people who are to be uploaded are to be loaded – point, out, end – whether that is the Telekom affair, whether it concerns gambling or other topics. This distinguishes these two parties, and it is also important that the Austrians know this. We have the secretaries sitting here, we have the blockers sitting here, we have the objectors sitting here – and we have here sitting the group who reveal, who clears up the consequences, and who takes care of order in their own ranks. [[towards SPÖ]] [[Abg. Haberzettl: Mr Petzner, this is a joke!]] [[towards BZÖ]] That's the difference you need to know. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] And even now – I can confirm what Mr Brosz said – even now in these minutes the SPÖ – Mr Pendl, is building, look at me! - Obstacles to obstacles. Obstacles for obstacles! The opposition parties are now ready also to negotiate this government proposal, which was presented here in the early days, to discuss it, to take this request seriously into consideration and to try to reach a solution on the basis of this SPÖ and ÖVP request, because we say: Before this investigative committee is turned off today by deadline, we choose the second way, because we say every additional day in the investigative committee is a won day for this country, is a won day in the fight against corruption, is a won day in the fight for political cleanliness. – That’s what is developing right now. They're all there: The FPÖ is ready for this, the BZÖ is ready for it, the Greens are ready for it and the Austrian People's Party is also ready to do so. The only ones who are now starting to cross-border against their own request are the Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ. You're blocking your own request and now you don't want to know anything about it. And that's just this plausible maneuver. You say: We do not want to ask a single witness about the advertisement in the investigation committee at all. - That's the truth. In fact, there is a large rescue operation, which is primarily dedicated to the Secretary of State Ostermayer, because he has a much bigger problem than the Chancellor. – Quote: I need €7 million for the Werner. - Quote. So I come to this ad affair, too. Mr Herb has accused us of an advertisement that has come from the political opponent, the FPÖ. – To this end, it should be said: The ad was not the trigger, the ad has only summarized what a high-ranking ÖBB manager anonymously compared to the “Kurier” on 5 May. ==References== That is, an own, red ÖBB manager is straining the red German chancellor. This triggered the entire ad affair, because this ÖBB manager was on 5 May. In May 2011, the German Chancellor Faymann, as the Minister of Transport, had freely received the advertising of the Austrian Federal Railways. Quote: “The train had to turn in selected boulevard media advertisements ordered by the ministry.” On the basis of these statements by this ÖBB manager, FPÖ Secretary-General Vilimsky then took place on 9 October. June a statement of the facts – if I say so correctly, as I believe – was sent to the prosecutor's office, and subsequent investigations were started. That triggered the whole ad affair. That is to say, this is not a criminalization by the political opponent, but it is a scandalous wave that was launched by the ÖBB, by a courageous manager himself. And that's also true that this ÖBB manager did it, ladies and gentlemen. I can also add that you have to look at what Mr Fay-mann, as Minister of Transport, has actually turned on in the “Kronen Zeitung” in the series “Our Bahn”: 24 double pages where people, train drivers, ÖBB customers could sue abuses – that the toilet doesn't work, that cell phone reception doesn't work, that trains come too late that there is no Internet connection. This was criticized and condemned on 24 double pages in the “Kronen Zeitung”, and the Minister, then Minister Faymann, was the one who then promised improvements. Now I ask you: Where is the advertising value for the Austrian Federal Railways – logically thought – to be when the Austrian Federal Railways are poured on 24 double sides in the strongest daily newspaper in this country? This advertising value cannot plausibly explain to you any advertising expert in this country, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Kickl: I’m looking forward to the SPÖ listing in the upcoming election campaign!]] It is therefore also necessary for us to highlight and examine this series and other advertisements in the Investigation Committee. I should also like to extend to Mr Cap: The Committee of Inquiry is not concerned with legal information – that is the responsibility of the judiciary – but with political information. And when it comes to political information, the question must be whether Mr Faymann has dealt correctly with taxpayers within close-to-state businesses or not. And in order to clarify this question, it would also be appropriate for Federal Chancellor Faymann to give the courage to give a witness to the investigation committee, ladies and gentlemen. A last sentence also in the direction of the President of the Federal Republic, because he may be watching: Mr President, you can leave Hofburg, the Hofburg-Klo again. The political storm is passing. [[Abg. Neugebauer: Respect for the Office?]] – Because: The President-in-Office of the Council was once again too bold to take a clear position, and I would also like to have criticised this. [[Congratulations on the part of BZÖ representatives.]] One thing is already obvious: The President of the Federal Government is very quick, very loud in the media when it comes to blue or orange, when it comes to cartoons or a Facebook posting. He'll be there soon. But when it comes to the government parties wanting to turn off the largest and most important investigation committee in this country that has ever existed, this Federal President is silent. [[BZÖ and FPÖ are welcome.]] Every Austrian can imagine for himself whether such a Federal President is the right President for this country. I don't think it's because I think that a corruption committee and the investigation of corruption are still more important than a cartoon. I would therefore have expected the President of the Federal Republic to make his position quite clear. But we know him now, ladies and gentlemen: Whenever it comes to his own former party members, he becomes very, very quickly, very quiet, the President of the Federal Republic of Germany. Finally, my appeal, especially to the SPÖ – this is now – summarizes: The opposition – all three opposition parties – is ready to negotiate this proposal by SPÖ itself and the ÖVP and find a solution here. It is possible to ensure the continuation of this committee of inquiry today. It is still possible to continue the investigation of corruption in this country today. It is all, ladies and gentlemen, now only the chancellor party SPÖ, which has to give it green light. I would ask you, ladies and gentlemen of the Social Democrats, to do so very explicitly.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-09-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e24165	Mrs Magnette has now come to speak. Musiol. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-09-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e24188	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, listeners! Today, I have expected a number of bizarre speeches, and I have to say that my expectations have been exceeded. Skurril, therefore, because what the government parties, but also BZÖ and FPÖ have delivered here in recent weeks and days, can not be rationally explained. Therefore, it was clear that, above all, those of the government parties who speak today can either only admit that they have been running but have been properly running, or have to find any bizarre reasons why what they have done, or what their colleagues have done, or colleagues in that case, might have been useful. [[President Neugebauer shall take over the chairmanship.]] Mrs Lap and Mrs Fürntrath-Moretti, I am horrified at your contributions. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. May. Lap: That was, unfortunately, the truth!]] They were really incredibly sexistic. I can also explain why. I was at the group leader's meeting of the Committee of Inquiry last week and was already horrified at the way Members Amon, Member of Parliament, Mr Pendl, but also Petzner and Rosary talked to the committee of inquiry of Moser and spread out statements that cannot really be surpassed by sexism – subtle sexism, that must be said. A committee president, who has done excellent work for months, even recognized by the large political groups who announced the media themselves in early July, which excellent committee chairman is at work here, who would only hang on to the band of her colleague Pilz, was truly incredible. This would not have happened to a man in this situation, all of which has happened only because it is a female chairman. [[Call the ÖVP:Hello!]] [[Intervocations at ÖVP and SPÖ.]] And you should have understood this in the SPÖ, Mrs. Wurm, because I see you there, and against this background I don't understand that you cover it and put it on it. Mrs Lapp, you have opposed yourself. If you prove that Mr Moser has fought most with Mr Pilz in the presidency, this is only proof that she has proved independence and has shown that she opposes anyone who, in her opinion, is bothering the committee's work, and so has she. [[Congratulation with the Greens]] And if you tell my colleague, Ollinger, he wasn't there: I was there. I was in many committee meetings, you know, as a listener, as an acturist, as a member, you know, Mrs Tamandl, and I have seen what has happened, and it was quite exactly the presidency of colleague Moser, who has enabled so much to be seen at all. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] In one I have to contradict my colleague Pirklhuber: It is not a black day for Austrian parliamentarianism, for what has happened in the last days and hours, and many journalists have already noticed and written this, is that the fog, namely the fog of the great parties who have been talking about democratic reform for months, has been talking about the fact that we have to change the right to vote, parliamentarianism, direct democracy, and then, when it really comes to giving answers to the so-called political indifference, by allowing for Enlightenment by allowing independent Enlightenment, suddenly block. [[Abg. Wheelers: Complexly loaded!]] I already have to take FPÖ and BZÖ to duty now, because you have been there until yesterday. You have exerted just as much pressure, you have also insisted that further work is possible only if Moser resigns. While you want to stand up as the cleaners, it is emotionally understandable, it does not correspond to the truth. Now it is so that apparently everyone is ready to continue working and there could be an agreement if not to block the SPÖ again, and I just don't understand that. I don't understand how you can believe you're going to get through with this. You can't be so sloppy and disintegrated that you don't think your own voters, but all the others don't see through it. I'm sorry, people on the street know: If you have nothing to hide, Mr Bundeskanzler, then you can simply go and say in this committee of inquiry. Why you are building these blocks, Mr Pendl, I do not understand, I do not want to understand and I will not understand. What it is about now is to make the deadline application. Leave your blockade, let us reach an agreement and let this committee continue to work in the sense of democracy!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-09-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e24282	Next speaker: Mr Dipl.-Ing. Deimek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-09-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e24303	Mr President. Gentlemen on the government bank! Today we have a urgent question by the Greens on the topics of the Committee of Inquiry and subsequently on the Committee of Inquiry itself, and I am all the while wondering: Why is the SP fighting against Mr Faymann's appearance in front of the committee of inquiry here and today? Why is the SP Group fighting again today a Mrs Moser or a Mr Pilz, who is not the chairman at all. Both are not the subject. Mrs Moser, who has been a wonderful leader of the committee for half a year and then has done a few things, has suffered the consequences. We all don't need to think about it and talk about it anymore. Come now However, at once with these old waves, they draw them out and thus justify something for which this does not even give you a hint of support or provides physical relief. I have only one answer: Behind this advertising scandal of Mr. Faymann must put such a terrible, so great thing that you give your character and mandate, your free mandate on the wardrobe and do something more in party force. Shame for it, too, for this page! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: What does this have to do with the character?]] This 19. September 2012 will be a day of shame if you go through what you are currently planning! You can expect that this one time public opinion and published opinion are not the same. There are enough people out there coming to a flash mob from 6 p.m. on. I am almost convinced that some of the WKRs will also be taking part in a stroll there, and we will support it the same way. Journalists support this, and a very, very renowned journalist, an honorable man has written today, he cannot eat as much as he can – point, point, point. You can only understand this if you know what you're doing here. Mr. Faymann! As always, it is this mixture of truths, half-truths, and untruths, and that is what stirs people so much and what they know more and more. They know what the untruths are, they come upon it, and thus the truth suffers. For example, you have been led by you, and Mr Cap has also said this: That's what you delivered at the summer meeting, as in the investigation committee. You said the seven-year hole was easy to explain, because they drove taxi. Mr. Faymann! With 18 Matura and then taxi driving – you can only do that at 20. So the seven-year-log chancellor has become the two-year-log chancellor. Shame on it! Or a second story: You told me in your so-called question answer that Marc Zimmermann would have taken everything back anyway. – Please, the man from ASFINAG is inside your own red media realm. What will remain of the other than to deny everything? Or: You compare your image listing with the rescue route campaign. It's a horrific thing! The ads that BMVIT and ASFINAG have made for the introduction of the completely new rescue lane measure compare with any image insects from which you limit. That must not be true! It can't be that you're mocking the drivers! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Or: You told us again today with the image for the ÖBB. However, you have forgotten that Mr. Beacher mentioned that the actual image gain was not recognizable. I also wonder how this should go. The ÖBB, which everyone knows, whether with good or bad signs, the ÖBB, which is supported and who lives on the fact that their employees work properly, should have an advantage through the image of an unknown Vienna city council?! - Please go! You don't even think that's the last SPÖ officer. You don't know anything yet. You don't know how organs work. You can't know how organs work in a stock company either. You didn't work! You didn't work in a private company, you didn't work in the public sector, you went to school and then you were a political officer right away. How to know what a Supervisory Board is doing, how to know what a Board of Directors is doing? I'm sorry, but you came in over that slide. I'm telling you today, on the day of shame, one: You have the political responsibility to take over! She's not taking over justice, colleague Cap. This also does not make the “crone”, Mr. Faymann, or the family Digand. You will have to take note of the political responsibility if you punish the electorate on the election day! I can only say that, and this is my appeal to the SP fraction: Just do it like the President of the Federal Republic of Fischer! Either in two years a bold opinion on the point, or go out today, anything, but show you a little bit of character. I know so many people inside, honest, decent, decent people. Ask your officials at home, ask your members at home what they think about the story today! That's where people run from you. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I know, and Kurt Gartlehner from our district knows this too: People don't blame that. That's just more of the Lord behind me who pulls off his show. And I can guarantee you one thing: If you end this day with this monsterity today, then all of us will tell the story in the evening – and also the Urenkerls, of course –: [[Abg. Riepl: Urenkerln, too, gel?]] So and so it came that Strache became Federal Chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-09-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e24378	Next speaker: Mr Grosz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-09-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e24399	High house! Since there seems to have been some agreement on the Committee of Inquiry, the last weeks have been covered by the motto of Hornberger Schießen, and also the government parties seem to be again aware that information and transparency in politics might be something more important than the constant cover-up they have been maintaining for years and decades, I can show my astonishment at the beginning of my speech. I've been surprised, and I've been surprised with humour. From the summer I had a spiritual picture before me, on which Mrs. Klubobfrau Glavischnig Händchen holding with Federal Chancellor Faymann wandering through the alpine world, which was proclaimed as honeymoon in St. Veit im Pongau. The Federal Chancellor is the Holden unheard-of 300 km required to room a red-green coalition in any form. And today the evil mother-in-law suddenly comes in the form of the Lord Pilz, and the whole young love that has developed between red and green will be destroyed here at the pult of the Republic with the proposal hammer. Mr Pilz – he is not here now – with all understanding of your criticism and the accuracy of your criticism: [[Call:How often]] If this Mr Faymann is such a bad person at the head, I will never do a coalition with such a person and with such a party. We know only the Austrian People's Party, which wrote two weeks ago to the SPÖ, that they would continue to rule thieves, but still on the dock, Vulgo Regierungsbank. That the Greens now judge Mr. Faymann that he is almost the most illustrious politician in the Republic, but we have three weeks ago pictures, as said, with sticks and Ausseer gingerbread heart between red and green in St. Veit in Pongau, which somehow does not fit together, ladies and gentlemen of the Greens. Now from the humorous view with the grain of truth to what is behind the advertising affair of the so-called inserator Faymann. ==References== Au-gust 2008, which is now more than four years ago, I have submitted an advertisement to the public prosecutor's office in Vienna, in a strength of 40, 50 pages, with all the decision protocols, with all the Supervisory Board protocols, with all these internal notes about talks between Ostermayer, ÖBB and ASFINAG, de facto the entire convolut. I'll take it on 21. August 2008 together with the invoices. At that time, the so-called boulevard, which has been much stressed today, seemed to be of no interest to anyone that Grosz introduced this ad one and a half months before the National Council election in October 2008. A few days before the appointment of the Federal Chancellor and former Minister of Transport, the German Chancellor Werner Faymann, this procedure was terminated by the Public Prosecutor's Office in Vienna. The same case-law, the same investigation procedure, the same documents in copy, the same decision-making protocols: In 2008 under Minister of Justice Berger – which is likely to be known to you, which is also from Social Democracy – has been recruited, for two years now and has led to an investigation committee. On the basis of this example, I wonder what to think of it if today a Member of Parliament, I think it was Klubobmann's head, and Klubobmann Cap asked: What do you need the investigation committee so urgently? We already have a good functioning justice! That was the reason for the mediocre turn-on, this new attack, of turning off this committee of inquiry. We've got justice! And now I prove to you that in 2008 exactly in this affair, justice did not attack. The then prosecutor, a certain Mr. Kronawetter, carried out a judicial courtlock in front of the new Chancellor a few days before the new Chancellor took office and terminated this procedure. That is why this committee of inquiry is so important to clarify political responsibility, as we see from this example that the judiciary has become a member of the government and political community in this area. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] And the Austrian judicial system, with its red and black prosecutors, ladies and gentlemen, who hopefully don't believe in the Christkind anymore, and with their judicial body, that they are firmly in control, will of course never allow the proper identification and the proper prosecution of red or black members of the government. In which republic we live, in which four members of the government in office of an Austrian government are determined and which are, by the way, also accepted without the Austrian media. If my colleague, Mr Petzner, has to act as a witness somewhere in court and is heard as a witness, or if a third President of the National Council, by the way, without extradition by this House, is consulted, then BBC and CNN are reported for arms at the doorstep and then around the clock. But then it is reported in a sense that the so-called accused is not in an investigation procedure, but is actually just before the death penalty. Condemned! Witch Process! A pariah of society! You can't touch him anymore, an untouchable man! – This happens when a colleague, Petzner, is agreed as a witness in court, et cetera. Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen of all parliamentary groups! Have you seen media pictures of them when, a few weeks ago, Minister Schmied, who had been slid with the municipal credit, was accepted as the main responsibility for this, by the way, because of fraud? [[Abg. Dr. Graf: A sentence in the ORF!]] Did you know? Have you seen pictures of Mr Ostermayer's State Secretary or Mr Faymann's chancellor, as they have just been consulted before the prosecutor because of this affair? Have you seen ORF cameras and the media organ that Mr Media State Secretary serves every day, also against the opposition and against those free spirits in the country who like to tell the truth? Or have you experienced that, because of the Listeria scandal, which has killed 14 people in that country, for which political responsibility lies perfectly and definitely with that minister, there is a media coverage if it has been agreed, if it has already been agreed? We have an Austrian health minister who is suspected of being responsible for the death of 14 people in the Listeria scandal. [[Abg. Dr. Oberhauser: That's not true at all! - That's not normal!]] That's this federal government! That's this justice! And that is this media pre-condemnification, ladies and gentlemen! And that is why these examples are also a plea for the Committee of Inquiry, in which all parties of the Austrian National Council are informed after years and decades of this scandalous republic. And not only will we provide for information in the painful affair of a Federal Chancellor who buys his opinion with tax money, but there is also a need to inform the Austrian People's Party, whose representatives and former leading representatives have been involved in Telekom's eastern business. That's why I'm saying: If the Committee of Inquiry continues, it is a victory for democracy, otherwise it is a shame to Parliament.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-09-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e24473	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Höbart. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-09-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e24495	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! What are you supposed to do in the way of this most successful committee of inquiry so far – I remember: Some laws have already been passed, we have already clarified a few points here – in fact, to the best? That in a committee of inquiry, which now threatens a bad end due to the red and black system! This is a system of coverage, which is a system of privilege and vetting, and this is a system that is constantly at the feet of the media, the system media due to the millions of funding, which is why the Committee now threatens the premature end. Ladies and gentlemen of Red and Black, it is a real scandal, it is an increase in parliamentarism that you think only of a committee of inquiry, without finalizing the points we have jointly decided where we have been sitting for hours in this building at joint meetings! This is an increase in parliamentarism and the people in front of this building who demand clarification and who want to know how these points continue! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In view of this, ladies and gentlemen of Red and Black, you can only ask the question: Do you want to paper us? Do you really want to paper us?- Oh, my God! I remember. August there was the following situation: The former chairman, Moser, did not behave properly and gladly. We wanted to decide a timetable, we wanted to decide on lists of witnesses, and at once it did not put this request to the vote. That wasn't all right! Then red and black immediately felt like they needed to know: The chairman must resign, otherwise there will be no continuation! I love the former chairman of Moser, she has resigned – but now red and black continue to do so. Explain Once again to this Parliament, explain this to people outside! Nobody understands that! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The reasons why we want to turn this investigation committee off so quickly are obvious. I would like to remind you once again of what this committee has so far brought to light: Sub-State Telekom Austria served as a financial campaign engine for the parties ÖVP, BZÖ, SPÖ. Casinos Austria AG sponsored an evening with Wilhelm Molterer and BZÖ €300 000 for a study that would probably not have been worth even a tenth of that. And what does it look like now? – The rest of the research items are no longer wanted to look at. I come to the issue of "inserate affairs". – Mr. Federal Chancellor Faymann, you can’t seriously believe that a pure image application, which was ultimately paid by ÖBB and ASFINAG, has also brought anything to the company! Remember: The customer asks, the minister answers! It was a purely negative campaign – a negative campaign that cost the Austrian Federal Railways and thus the taxpayer €500 000. The Executive Board did not take the decision until a three-quarters later, and in the end even the Federal Railways, according to the former Executive Director, Goldmann, took six employees to answer the questions, the so-called questions of the customers for you, Mr. Bundeskanzler. So a pure negative campaigning that didn't help the company ÖBB – and if you were a bit concerned with advertising, you would also be my opinion –. ASFINAG has also been mentioned more often today. 2006: no ads! 2007: At once, there were 470,000 for the newspaper “ÖsterREICH, ” without informing the board of directors! So all in all, it's a scandal that it finally needs to be clarified. We must continue the investigation committee! For this, the Freedom Party is under our Federal Party Minister H.-C. Strache.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-09-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e24568	Next speaker: Mrs Dr. Moser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-09-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e24589	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen here and now also on the observation bench, you can say, or so to speak on the demonstration balustrade! Well, we have now observed for a whole day here in the plenary room how negotiations are being conducted, namely how negotiations are being conducted on a very serious subject: If the Committee of Inquiry is broken over the knee, the day after tomorrow, on 21 March. ==References====External links== October? This tumbling has now taken place behind the scenes, partly also in front of the scenes, and it is likely that in perhaps three, four minutes, perhaps also in five minutes, the deadline which has been requested in the morning, will be withdrawn. I say it carefully: It should be! And then what is the result? – It is marked by: until 16. October 18 Negotiations days. Sorry: 8, not 18! I'm optimistic again. I've been looking up in the calendar once more. In concrete terms, this means: probably 26. and 27. September, and then, in two October weeks, three negotiating days each. Imagine what that's like when you load information people who know exactly that on 16 September. October is over! [[Call the FPÖ: There's no one coming!]] – They only need to suffer a middle flu attack and manage to blacken it once a week. And: You just need to have a post-treatment, then they're gone the second week. This is the Crux – and in front of the other committee of inquiry – which is now fully aware of the specification 16. ==References====External links== I have heard that now is the deadline which is essential for the government parties that they still accept, and they force the opposition parties on this deadline, otherwise the next morning will be over. I mean, that's just a transparent game. I know since July that probably everything had to end in mid-October. “Must” I have to say now. This is completely paradoxical, but it must now be formulated so to speak for the future in the past. And now this turn is about to happen. And, Mr. Federal Chancellor or Mrs. Transport Minister, the reason why all of this is now done so and in the pig galop – although I have to say that I see pigs as very intelligent animals – is hunted across the parliamentary stage lies in the striking political issues of advertising and media cooperation. I know it is a high qualitative difference, a very high qualitative difference between economies in their own pockets, corruption and bribery and an advertising policy that can then somehow be booked on the political account, where it will be politically beneficial, where one has no personal advantage, but where one gains a political start-up advantage or overall a political sympathy. That's the big qualitative difference! Only: The main task of the Committee of Inquiry, namely the holding of political responsibility and the establishment of political responsibility, is precisely this, where it is not a matter of its own, but a political pole position, political image politics, a central question. That's – how did you say it today, Federal Chancellor? – an actual asset. I do not like to speak in the mouth, but it is a real asset of parliamentary control, political responsibility. And this asset of Parliament is now the reason why everything is taken away and why we really have to rinse everything in the fast-washing process. Once again to the core: You, Mr Bundeskanzler, and you too, Mrs Verkehrsminister, have certainly been the patron – you, Mr Bundeskanzler; You, Mrs Verkehrsminister, are still now – for these ASFINAG advertising waves in various media, which I do not want to mention in particular now. But your argument as to why the companies have to turn ads on is indeed something of cockbucks, because: Normally, a company advertises so it gets customers or customers. The ASFINAG advertises that more drivers are on the road and therefore has the advertising wave: ASFINAG introduces projects, ASFINAG tells something about traffic safety, ASINAG shows where noise protection walls are going to last in the future, et cetera. Does that have the effect that more people are getting to the car now? – Then the advertising would be argumentable. But this cannot be argued, because it should be traffic policy, Mrs Minister, not driving more cars on the motorway, but actually less. I'm sure you'll be right. They're always talking about moving traffic from road to rail, and so on. And the second element: A company is recruiting so that it has an advantage over competition. – Question: Tell me, Federal Chancellor, Mrs Verkehrsminister, who is the competition of the ASFINAG? I only know one: the federal states with the federal roads. This is the actual competition of the ASFINAG. Is it necessary for ASFINAG to advertise people on the highway and not on the federal road? - No, I'm sure not! I'm not a driver, but I also understand that you're moving forward on the highway better and faster than usual on the federal road. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] So in that respect, this whole representation is about acceptance and the asset of the ASFINAG and therefore the ASFINAG had to advertise, but really in the front and back a mega humbug. The background is the: All this should only serve to ensure that certain media receive advertising millions, that certain media are, so to speak, better on a budget basis and that salaries can be paid on time. That's the true background! In my opinion, the political scandal is also the fact that so much pressure was exerted on the old management in the ASFINAG, which resisted this waste of money by advertising – it is about driver money at the ASFINAG, it is about the pickerl’s revenue – that for the first time those who refused to carry this economic nonsense, this communicative nonsense, had to go. We've known that since 2007. ‘Profile’ revealed this for the first time. I would like to point out to you that I have then stylized further advertisements with facsimile on the subject of questions and have sent telephone calls to the Secretary of State Ostermayer. I can also be an informer at any time in front of the committee of inquiry on this causa, the problem is only, active Members should not be allowed to do so. But I'm sitting in there, I can say it inside. It's all clear. Now away from the detail – that's the background why everything should go so fast now – go to the basics, and you can read all the basics in your emails. Look at your emails today! I printed one more. [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign.]] - I'll be at the end of the sentence. I have printed an extra one that has gone to all the Members of this House, namely a citizen, and that says: “Dear National Councillors! Austria is a democratic republic. Their right goes from the people. The people want information. The examination committee’s turning off is a scandal.” Also – I say – the quick-washing process of an investigation committee, as it appears today, is a democratic scandal! That's really my closing point: What really hurts me personally – and I deliberately say it: hurt! . is that, because of your style, after this investigation committee, political starkness is greater and you are dealing with Parliament's control instrument with military boots as a whole. I still do not accept that, so I also give the way free!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-09-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e24663	Next speaker: Mr Pendl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-09-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e24701	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Actually, it would be interesting – I think we listened to everyone. [[Inter-calls at the BZÖ.]] It might be very good to listen to me in what I'm trying to articulate here now. I think it has not deserved this committee of inquiry such a discussion as it was today, because I think it is the most successful committee of inquiry in the history of our house. [[Call to the FPÖ: My God!]] First point. Second point: I would like to thank some fellow Members, but also the employees of this House and the clubs very much. The Committee's situations were not always easy. Nevertheless, we have tried in the interest of the matter a really neat and, I would think, to bring first-class work over the stage until summer. Mrs Moser, I do not agree to tell you that the work done before the summer - I congratulated you on it - was first-class. I have also given you respect for your step, which is due to you, no question. I remember how you stood with me and told me I could choose it. Only: There is no reason to pour oil into the fire here, if you have been trying for days to find a common solution – I'm just saying it – because it's actually an elementary right of every Member to make requests, and if you stand up and say: [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: That's the top grudge!]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: First, build ten problems so that you can solve problems afterwards!]] I do not allow this request to happen, then everyone should consider what that means. This could make school and replace versa in other areas as well. I believe that this is not in the sense of parliamentaryism. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] I also note that the lawyer has clearly positioned himself on this issue. He does his work well, no question at all. He said: If I'm confronted with two legal opinions, I'll vote! Not: I won't let you vote! And that was one of the cracks that were legally erased. But we can save everything. I really invite you to think about what it means to simply not allow requests here in the House, whether in the committees or here in the plenary. I don't think we all need that. There are a number of Members who are chairmen in the committees. We do not like much content, but it is not the job of a chairman to say: I'm qualifying it now, I'm allowing it or I won't allow it because it has an impact on the whole house. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: It is certainly the duty of a chairman to allow an application or not!]] Yeah, yeah, it's so, you don't want to hear this: If you asked me, we could have saved everything! In reality, we could have continued to work with the timetable that was agreed and clarified. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: This is smooth untruth!]] There was also clarity about the prospect of further days. It was not a question of turning off, but it was not allowed to do so at all. In reality, we could have completed our then planned meetings all the time – without any excitement! In the In the meantime, we have tried everything we can to take into account in the matter, the decision or the mandate of this House. In the early days, at least in the core, we have proposed the same request, just with time-consuming dates, because the days have gone by, and we are trying to reach agreement with the political groups. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: Including file vendor stopper!]] We would have been able to do what we are going to do or what we are going to do now – it will not be better, Mrs Colleague – at 8 p.m. [[New call for tender Dr Moser]] Now it's a little later, it's 5:39. Good thing needs to be here and there, even over the summer. I'd just ask you: If we are already discussing here, you should be at least so fair that you do not simply call millions of damage in the same breath and an advertisement story or try to criminalise representatives of the state exclusively. It's meated me from where they are, and it's also meated for me, which organs or if they are organs of the state. That is not what we all need here, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. We all know, we're all professionals. I would only think that we might have saved so many things if we had given more attention to the opinion of the other. I say very consciously once again: It has been very objectively worked by many in the Committee. But we know this from the past: Then there are always points where the emotions go up. But it can't be – and I say that quite consciously – that one has leased the wisdom and the right for himself and all the others have to understand what he says. That can't be! [[Abg. Dr. Moser: On 6th everything was clear!]] I believe that we should all be so far as to negotiate together that we take decisions together to carry out our mission together. I would therefore suggest that, Mr President, we – I have now spoken to the leaders of the political groups – interrupt the meeting after the urgent session, hold a meeting of the Rules of Procedure and see whether we can also take a decision on what is now the final status of the negotiations. I believe that both the House and the Members of Parliament and the Austrians have an advantage of this. The proposal is agreed with the other leaders of the political groups. I hope he's being picked up.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-09-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e24846	Next speaker: Mr Amon. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-09-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e24867	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Estimated members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Then I confirm to my colleagues Otto Pendldarf that it has succeeded in signing a five-party request right now in these minutes, which will enable the Committee of Inquiry to continue, on the basis of the proposals we submitted in August. [[Call:]] These are such that, on the one hand, those issues which are still open and which the Committee of Inquiry has always wanted to deal with are dealt with, namely the issues relating to the award of ads, the issue of citizenship and that of the Telekom East business. On the other hand, however, it is also tried to deal with this in a framework which, I believe, is reasonable and serious. This is also true of the criticism that accompanies the entire committee of inquiry, namely the parallel investigation, that is, on the one hand, the judicial system, on the other hand Parliament. This always leads to difficulties – so honest you have to be – and to rejections. This is not quite easy, it is also seen on the basis of the fact that it is a major problem to take into account, on the one hand, in a cooperation with the Public Prosecutor's Office on Witness loads, but on the other hand to be faced with the situation of being bound to this agreement, but to not be able to load the most important “witnesses” – under quotation marks – of the telecoms, Mr Schieszler. This shows how difficult these parallel studies are. Then, of course, I would also like to address the question that we have seen in the last few days very fiercely in discussion, the question of the Presidency. In any case, I would like to reject an accusation – in all peace, but also in all clarity – and I hope that Mrs. Moser gives me the right. All the criticism we have practiced – at least I use it for myself – was factual, but it was certainly not sexistic. I would like to reject this in all clarity. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Wenninger.]] You didn't say that, but one of your club colleagues suggested this, and I really don't think that's okay. [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: clearly said!]] Nothing else lies to me! I think, and I have said this several times in the Committee, that we have had an impeccable relationship so far. [[Intrusions of the Abg. Oils.]] We have talked directly with each other, and I find this accusation quite unheard of – I really want to say that. So we are now trying to establish this agreement, there will be a meeting of the Rules of Procedure immediately after the interruption, in which we take the relevant decisions. I am glad that this is possible because I believe that it is also good for Parliament, a task which it has set itself, to carry out a task that it has done itself, so that we can do this task in all its matters and in all its rest.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-09-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e24931	No one is reported in the word anymore. I therefore conclude the debate. In order to give the Committee of Inquiry the opportunity to start its deliberations – the Committee is duly convened – I am now interrupting the plenary session for about 25 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-09-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e24962	Ladies and gentlemen. I'll start the interrupted session again. I announce that Mr Pendl, Mr Amon, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, and my colleague, as well as his desire for debate have been withdrawn. I therefore succeeded in further communications. [[18:32:03]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2012-09-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e25001	I am still announcing that in today's session the self-employed applications were submitted by 2060/A to 2079/A. Questions 12575/J to 12657/J were also raised. [[18:32:20]] Request within the meaning of § 99(2) GOG
ParlaMint-AT_2012-09-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00169_d7e25025	I also announce that, in the context of the Self-employed Request 2079/A, the Court of Auditors' special file on the conduct of a programme of conduct, concerning the review of the circuit of advertisements by, on behalf of, or in the interest of, Federal Ministries, a request of 20 delegates within the meaning of § 99 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. As the legal requirements are met, this examination must also be carried out without the decision of the National Council. The next meeting of the National Council, which will concern business communications and allocations, will be convened at 6.33 p.m. – that is immediately after this meeting. This meeting is closed.
