ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e3230	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen! I'll open the meeting. The Official Protocol of 178. Meeting of 8. In November 2012, the Parliament's Directorate remained unanswered and undisputed. As prevented, the MEPs are reported Clickovits and Themessl. Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e3261	For this meeting, the Federal Chancellery on the representation of members of the Federal Government made the following statement: The Federal Minister for European and International Affairs Dr. Michael Spindelegger is represented by the Federal Minister for Economic Affairs, Family and Youth Dr. Reinhold Mitterlehner. I announce that this meeting will be transferred to ORF 2 to expected 11.30 a.m. and to ORF III in full length. [[09:06:22]] Current hour
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e3302	We arrive at the current hour with the theme: ‘Perspectives of civil service in Austria’ First of all, Mr Wöginger. 10 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e3329	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! Today's current hour of the EIA is concerned with civil service, especially with the prospects of civil service. Why is this topic up-to-date? - Because it's on the 20th. In January 2013, there is a public survey in Austria on whether the military service is maintained and, therefore, civil service, or whether a professional army is introduced and a paid, voluntary social year. It is important that the population and people in Austria know: If military service fails, there is no civil service anymore. Civil service is enshrined in the Constitution as a military service, that is, no civil service without obligation. Civil service, ladies and gentlemen, has become a cornerstone of social and health policy since the introduction of 1975, which can no longer be thought away. It is true that, especially in the first years of civil service, not always had the best reputation in the population, but since the last ten, 15 years, this question has not been raised. [[Abg. Riepl: Thanks to the ÖVP!]] [[Abg. Dr. Cap: With the help of the ÖVP!]] At present, some 14,000 young men a year, especially in the rescue sector, in the assistance of the disabled, in the nursing homes and in the hospitals. They make an indispensable contribution in our society to people in need or dependent on help. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Civil service, ladies and gentlemen, is undisputed in society today and enjoys a high degree of recognition. Civil service has proved successful. We have a functioning system. I would like to make a few quotes on the current occasion, where the Red Cross asked former civil servants if they were satisfied with their service. 1 300 have reported back, and I would like to present three quotations of that. One of them said: For me, civil service was primarily a means of mediation and teaching, values being imparted, gratitude, respect, cohesion. - Quote. Another wrote back: I was a learned car mechanic. Now, as a nurse, I'm running an intensive care unit. - Quote. A third party reported: Without civil service I would never have gone to the Red Cross or become a volunteer employee. - Quote. Ladies and gentlemen, these three examples are all about the importance of civil service in our society, and that is why we want to maintain this success model in Austria. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Inter-calls at the BZÖ.]] I can only confirm that myself. I was a 17-year-old civil servant at the Red Cross, then became head of staff in this important organization and is still a staff there today. The question, ladies and gentlemen, is as follows: Why do you want to abolish a functioning system without having a suitable alternative? In the private sector, the question would never be asked, because if you do not have an alternative, you will not remove a proven system. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Schickhofer: We have a clear!]] This leads me to the SPÖ model, ladies and gentlemen. As an alternative, a paid, voluntary social year is offered. This is a contradiction in itself. Honorary and paid just doesn't fit together, that's a blow to the face of the volunteer employees who work for thousands of people in Austria. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Schickhofer: Eminence is also based on voluntaryness!]] I would also like to give you an example, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] A volunteer red-crust-sanite, who for ten or 15 years is really volunteering, free of charge at the Red Cross in the rescue service, what will he think if someone sits next to him who is paid €1 400 14 times a year? [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] – He will be confounded, ladies and gentlemen, he will ask himself: Why have I been doing free of charge for 20 years, volunteering a service to our society? [[Congratulations with the ÖVP as well as with the representatives of the FPÖ.]] That doesn't fit in in the back and in the front. This is the beginning of the end of the honorary office, and I would like to stress: Civil service is a formwork for the honorary office. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinzl.]] In Upper Austria at the Red Cross, about 80 percent remain volunteer after civil service. In addition, this model of dog torfer has many open questions. How many are reporting? No human can answer that. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] The SPÖ model only assumes 6 500 so-called volunteers, but we would need 9 500. That is, 3,000 are missing in this system. Where are they saved? That should be known to the people, ladies and gentlemen. They are saved in civil protection, fire and civil protection. They are saved in youth work, they are saved in childcare, they are saved in memorial service, they are saved in school way security, to protect our children, and they are finally saved in agriculture. [[Call the SPÖ: Who says that? Lie!]] Ladies and gentlemen, that can't be it. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scheibner.]] And what if, for example, only 4,000 and not 6 500 are reported at all? When we look at the system in Germany, 40,000 have reported themselves there after the suspension of the military obligation for the so-called Federal Voluntary Service, “Bufdi” is called that shortened. There is the famous Zehner rule with Germany and Austria. Germany is ten times the size of Austria, so if it has reported 40 000 in Germany, it is expected that no more than 4,000 will report in Austria. That means that we also get bigger problems in the rescue system. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Lap.]] As an employee of the Red Cross and as an Innviertler we maintain good contacts with our Bavarian friends. I asked myself at the Red Cross in Bavaria how they're doing with the Bufdis. The Red Cross of Bavaria used to have 1,600 civilian servants, now they have 600 so-called Bufdis. [[Further call to the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, there the transport of disabled people was stopped and they have hours of waiting in hospitals. We certainly don't want that in Austria! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP as well as with the representatives of the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Schickhofer: Civil service relevant for treatment time in hospitals!]] We must not put a functioning system at risk easily. And if we do not get this required number of so-called volunteers, then this also poses a risk of delays even in rescue operations and rescue weights can no longer be in the patient in ten or 15 minutes, but after 30 or 40 minutes. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] This is a quote from the Upper Austrian Red Cross President Walter Aichinger. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP as well as with the representatives of the FPÖ.]] This SPÖ proposal, ladies and gentlemen, is not an alternative to civil service and will not work in practice. That's what the rescue organizations say. [[Call the SPÖ: This is embarrassing!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bitch.]] Now you try to adorn this system with sugars to attract it. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Head: This is caries!]] - Yeah, it's Karies, it's true. That's too many sugars, they're unhealthy. It is now a matter of charging training times. On Thursday, the Minister of Social Affairs will propose that training periods should now be taken into account for the future election of the profession. Ladies and gentlemen, this can also be done in the existing system, and there is no need for a voluntary volunteer service, which we can handle in civil service as well. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Right!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] Our Minister of the Interior is responsible for civil service, and he's in good hands there. The second point is that mediation should now be done through an agency – quite great. This is the summit in this debate. So now, hire workers are introduced so that you can get a civilian replacement. And do you know what the main reason for this agency is? – That collective agreements can be bypassed. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Lap.]] So this, ladies and gentlemen, is not worthy of a former ÖGB President Hundstorfer to circumvent the collective agreements on a temporary employment agency. That will never find our approval. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] A word also about the so-called loss of birth. Ladies and gentlemen, has not occurred in the last ten years of the decline in birth? - I think so. That's an absolute panic. Over the last ten years, the number of civil servants in Austria has doubled from 7 000 to 14 000. That is, the decline in birth is simply not an argument. That is not going to happen in practice either. Why is this supposed to be a problem now? Ladies and gentlemen, I conclude by saying: Civil service is a success story, there is no alternative to this proven system. A paid volunteer service is a danger to the honorary ministry and will not work. Civil service is often also crucial for further professional choice. Many young men opt for a profession in the health, social or care sectors after civil service. Civil service also means gaining experience, teamwork and great human development, as well as cooperation within generations, between young and old. Civil service, ladies and gentlemen, is also building bridges. In particular, between civil service and subsequent voluntary, voluntary activity in the organisations. The question of maintaining compulsory military service and civil service is above all a matter of social policy. This is not a party policy issue, it is a social policy issue. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] We also need civil service in the future, civil service is a profit for all – therefore, yes to military service and yes to civil service.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e3637	Ms Mag. Federal Minister for Agriculture, Federal Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development, asked for an introductory opinion. Mikl's head of business. The speaking time should not exceed 10 minutes. - Please, Mrs. Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e3659	Madam President. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear ladies and gentlemen at the audience gallery! Appreciate spectators in front of the TV screens! [[Call the FPÖ:Dear SPÖ!]] Yes, this success story began in 1975, and if we let the last decades of Revue happen, we quickly note that civil service is a success story in the truest sense of the word. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] I admit that there were initially problems. Yes, I admit there were concerns in 1975. Yes, I admit that some young people have just been referred to as blackmailers because they have opted for civil service. [[Abg. Riepl: ÖVP!]] Yeah, and I also admit that this was just an experiment, an experiment where no one knew how it turned out. It was an experiment where, in 1975, young men were sent to nursing homes in disabled organizations, to the hospital, without knowing whether these young men were accepted and respected, whether they could take on real responsibility there and whether they were also help and support. And we know today: Yeah, they've proved themselves. You just can't think away today – and: This civil service has, above all, changed the role of the man. Today, it is a matter of course that men engage in social professions and health professions. And we owe this success to civil service. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Neugebauer: Very important aspect!]] Yes, my venerations. Ladies and gentlemen, the allocation figures speak a completely clear language, and civil service is very popular. What am I talking about? . I am referring to the fact that in 1975 344 young men did civil service, that in 2004 the number was already over 10,000 young men, and that in 2011, we already landed with 13,500 young men, i.e. 13,500 young men in civil service. We can say that was an assignment record. We managed to meet 97 percent of the needs, especially in 2011, and this was achieved only because of the civil service. When we look into the future: We know that this trend will continue as far as civil servants are concerned. The fact that we continue to need civilian servants is quite obvious. Think only of the increasing number of rescue trips, where one is increasingly going from stationary treatment to outpatient treatment, where the number of rescues will continue to increase in the future; remember that civil servants are especially needed in our nursing homes, in support of our staff in the nursing homes; or just remember that they are especially urgently needed to give time, especially in the disabled homes. [[Abg. May. Lapp: driving around with the truck?- Oh, my God!]] [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Bitch.]] Mr Wöginger has already mentioned that in recent weeks, some have tried to put fear and anxiety on the table – pardon: to shove! – with regard to the declining birth rates. [[Rejoicing at the SPÖ]] [[Abg. Neugebauer: Who feels affected?]] Based on the statements of the Central Statistical Office, we know very well that the number of under 19 years of age will increase again from 2021 onwards. Statistics Austria also clearly states that there will be even more than 19-year-olds in 2030 than there are today. That is to say, the figures speak a very clear language in which the civilians will not go out to us. On the other hand, I would also like to stress that even if there were a drop in birth, the paid voluntary social year would probably have to fight more with it than civil service. That is, there would be a much greater concern. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP as well as with the representatives of the FPÖ.]] In particular, it would be much, much more difficult to find young people in competition with the economy who opt for the paid voluntary social year – except in this concept, in the truest sense of the word, for unemployment, which means: The higher unemployment, the more reported for the paid social year. But that can't be our intention, it can't be a strategy that we support! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP as well as with the representatives of the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! High house! The condolences to the model of Mr Hundstorfer, which I would otherwise very much appreciate, are extremely limited, yes, that goes to rejection. And that's right! Why? – The answer is quite clear: Because this paid model is the beginning of the end of honoraryness because this model is an attack on the motivation of thousands of dedicated volunteers in Austria, because it is precisely not a reliable model, it cannot guarantee serious planning for our institutions and our organizations, because we do not want to count on a model based on unemployment and because we do not want to put a well-proven model at risk due to a SPÖ election campaign in Vienna. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ]] [[Abg. May. Schickhofer: Is there a civil servant who is volunteering?]] [[Abg. Silhavy: Civil servant is not an honorary office!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: To servus! Are you still with those in the government?]] It is important for us to present this very clearly. This system of civil service has developed well in recent years, and we certainly do not want to give up on it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! August Wöginger has already documented in his speech some concerns of experts and experts, and especially the experts know what they are talking about, know why they are rejecting the model to be presented by Minister Hundstorfer in detail this week. [[Abg. Silhavy: But unfortunately no professional!]] [[Abg. May. Schickhofer: They already know that before they know it!]] The fact is – no matter how you calculate this model –: This model will in all cases become more expensive. No matter from which perspective you look at this model, there will be extensive reductions in performance. Why will there be a reduction in performance? – Because it is assumed that in the future only 6 500 people are employed in the social field within the framework of the paid voluntary social year, while we have an average of 9 700 civilian servants in use today. In the last year, in 2011, 13 500 civilians were in service. And this account alone shows that there must be a reduction in performance of one third of the benefits. This is mathematically quite clear and it is obvious that there are reductions in performance. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP as well as with the representatives of the FPÖ.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! You only need to look at Germany, you only need to look at Bavaria: There are already reductions in performance. There the transport of disabled persons was already saved, there the waiting times for a transport to the hospital with the Red Cross were already extended by double or triple. These are facts which cannot be rejected by hand, these are facts which are quite clear to prove. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP as well as with the representatives of the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Heinzl: Who is that there? The Social Democrats? - That's the CDU!]] In particular, many helping hands will be missing, and many organisations that are currently in service will not have civilian servants in the future, or paid volunteers who choose the social year. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! It is always important to me to speak of very concrete figures, data and facts. That is why the question is also important to me: What about the social and economic benefits of civil service? For this reason, I had already given a very clear mandate to the University of Economics in Vienna in spring 2011 to prepare a study in this regard. It was important to me at the time to order an independent institute to do so. [[Abg. Wenninger: commissioned work! For taxpayers!]] The results are available in a few weeks, and these results will also be presented in a few weeks, as it looks forward to the social and economic benefits of civil service in order to make figures and facts speak quite clearly. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, even if you do not want to hear: Civil service was a success story and a success story. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] And if I may wish for something for all of us, for all Austrians, then it is that we can continue to build on civil service and build that civil service remains, above all, this important role in the social and social system. We know that civil service works well, is highly praised by the civil service organisations, is praised by the people who are cared for by civil servants, civil service is the best witness nationally, but also internationally. We know, of course, that civil service can also be further developed, and we have, of course, already made many considerations in this regard. The ideas are here on the table, ideas you can quickly implement, ideas that make civil service even more attractive. I think we need to be able to use civil servants even more in the future according to their abilities, their talents and their qualifications and, above all, to assign them to those institutions where they can really fully live out their talents. Yes, it is also thought that the knowledge acquired by civil servants during their civil service period can, of course, be taken into account in certain vocational training courses, in certain internships, and that one should have an advantage in certain tests, in certain reception tests. And we also want to consider the fact that women, but also men who have already done military duty, are able to take up and experience civil service there. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Heinzl: Listen, hear!]] Of course, it is also important in the field of civil service and it is necessary to continue administrative activities and to simplify them. It is also intended to make the working hours of civil servants more flexible and according to individual possibilities and personal wishes. Yes, there are many proposals, and I am grateful for each proposal. We will examine each individual proposal, and each proposal will be made after the 20th century. ==References====External links== January 2013 is a principle decision as to whether there will continue to be civil service. I do not want to say quite clearly here that I am not only a minister, but also, above all, a citizen and mother of two children, very clearly for the maintenance of military service and the maintenance of civil service, because it is not only a security issue but also, in the end, a social policy issue. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ]] [[Abg. Wenninger: As ÖVP Functionary!]] ==References== January 2013 concerns the question: Which way do we want to go? Let's keep raising our children in the direction that they continue to engage without asking: What do I get paid for?, or do we want to take a direction, which means: What can and must the state do for me, what do I get paid for it? – I tell you, that’s not our way, that everyone in the future, when he puts his hand on, will eventually be holding his hand. This is not the way we represent. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I ask all Austrians: Go on 20th. Mr President, I would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. It's about a lot.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e3959	I draw attention to the fact that the speaking time of all other participants at the current hour according to § 97a Abs. 6 of the Rules of Procedure shall not exceed 5 minutes. First of all, Mr Pendl.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e3997	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I think those who are longer in politics have experienced a lot. It would be the time frame to quote everything that has already been said in this regard. After all, you can read everything yourself, and you will still know which grandeurs of the two parties were for a professional army, how you have made the civilians despicable for years, yes, for decades. Let's not pretend it didn't exist! But let me start by saying: Yes, it is time, and every state makes it always time to think about and discuss the organization of a army accordingly. It should be a clean solution, and you can have different access to it, but this discussion must not be relocated to secondary questions. These are not the primary tasks of the military, and in particular understanding of the social field, especially understanding of the protection of disasters: We have a discussion about our military exclusively about civil service or about civil protection! [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Scheibner.]] This, ladies and gentlemen, is not the case. I think it's time for a lot of things to be reorganised in the state; no question. But you also have to ask: What time are we in? What challenges, which threat scenarios are there? How can we deal with this, and what can we change organizationally and legally here? That's a clean discussion. The problem in the social field, August Wöginger, and here I am with you, but has a different background: Because we've had a cover everywhere for years. It's that simple. And it's not a question of whether you're waiting a long time for the rescue in the hospital or not – that's a system problem, and we really need to discuss it. And, ladies and gentlemen, if it is Christian-social – I say so very consciously now – that you are drawn from the leather or against an income against a proper employment relationship here, then I no longer understand the world! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Explain to me why, on all the services of all rescue organizations, the main professionals have been doing next to the voluntary service for many years, without any problem! Explain it to me! [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Scheibner.]] That is living reality in all the federal states. And they do excellent work. All of you, from the military to this field of civil servants, deserve our common thanks and respect, no question. [[I should like to thank the rapporteur, Dr Moser and Mr Scheibner.]] But this is being discussed in a wrong way, I say that clearly. We know the problem of all those who work volunteering, including in NGOs. And there's no question at all, my dear ones. Ladies and gentlemen, we all have our problems with the current systems. Technology continues to develop, stress is growing. If we look at how these areas, where civil servants are in use today, are under a mega-stress, in the truest sense of the word, we must consider whether this is really necessary. Introduced and so legally determined to this day, it is a military sentence, a “compulsory obligation” – under quotation marks – almost. It's a forced service, whether we're happy or not, and I wonder if that's what we're doing in 21. ==References====External links== [[Abg. Kickl: How's that in the drawer? Is that what this is, or what is it?]] – If we compare education with that now, my colleague, then it gets its own touch. I don't want to go there right now. The military is absolutely valuable to this republic, it is absolutely valuable to the social sector for this republic, and I believe that we must work together in an objective manner to deal with these issues without one being against the other or playing out one area against the other. I believe that these systems belong to adapted systems, adapted to today's times, and we do not provide good service to employees, no matter in any field, if we are to conduct the discussion as it is at present. I believe that the people of our country have a right to bring about a proper organisational reform, where people are at the heart of it. But let us not forget that we also have a responsibility for those young people who expect politics to find fair, just, socially balanced rules! And there we are on the side of fairness, of justice, and we are trying to deal with these issues objectively.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e4062	The next item is the vote on the report by Mrs Lamassoure. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e4083	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! I would like to comment on the subject because of personal experience from my professional context. I founded a health education kindergarten in Steyr with a club 20 years ago, and a group of this two-group kindergarten was equipped with children with partly very severe disabilities. Ten years later, I founded a day care center with a colleague, i.e. a day care for the elderly in need of care. Together, these two very different institutions were that they mostly involved two civilian servants in the team from the beginning, and that was a classic win-win situation for both sides: On the one hand, for the young men who have come into contact with an area of life who would otherwise have remained with them with certainty. They have learned to deal with very difficult situations, even with difficult people. For example, they have learned to wrap and feed heavily handicapped children. They have come to know the experiences of life, but, of course, they have also come to know the self-wills of old people. On the other hand, the children themselves have had great joy with the young men, because they come from a very women's-possessed life with mothers, early promoters, kindergarten teachers, therapists, and they have experienced the young men as a great enrichment because they simply played differently with them. The same applies to the old people who have loved this intergenerative aspect very much. Another aspect that I could observe positively was the integration aspect. There were both on the side of civil servants as well as on the side of the cared for people with and without migration background, and the mutual and mutual learning has worked well. Many of the civil servants – that has already been said by August Wöginger – have changed their professional plans after civil service. They have sometimes been in social professions, and in many personal discussions they have also told me that they would not have done so if they had not met the field of social work at all. Since we still have a very large women's overhang in social professions, this aspect should be very important for us. As the aspect of volunteering was addressed: Many of these civil servants remained faithful to the institutions and continued to cooperate voluntarily there. If now Minister Hundstorfer introduces the model of a paid volunteer social year with a salary of at least €1,386, I have a little abdominal pain when at the same time considering what kindergarten pedagogists or skilled social workers/supervisors deserve in the field of old work, for example. I have to say quite honestly that I do not like this very small gap particularly – apart from, of course, the question of whether enough volunteers will find themselves working in the disabled area or also in the elderly, because that is, if we are quite honest, areas that do not have such a high social prestige as the rescue service. A subject is also very important to me, namely commemorative service. The memorial service must not be a victim of the abolition of compulsory military service. With this commemorative service – and these are currently 48 young men sent there – we give these young men, who are committed, historically conscious people, the opportunity to act in the sense of the process of history. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Every year the begs must go!]] As the Republic of Austria, we cannot afford to let that fall through the rust. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The obligation to reform is in need of reform, I believe that we are in principle all agreed. But the need for reform is far from that of breaking a well-proven and good system and thus pouring out the child with the bath. Honoraryness – and this too has been mentioned more often – is a very essential kitt of our society, and civil servants, after the service has been paid, by remaining connected to the institutions and continuing to do volunteer work there, a very great contribution to it, they are a very essential support. We simply must not destroy that.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e4135	Mr Klubobmann Strache is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e4156	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! If Mr Wöginger spoke today about the need to consider retirement periods for voluntary service, I can remind you of the many requests for freedom, where we have called for this here in the High House, where we wanted to make sure that all those who today provide a volunteer service in our society, whether in the case of the fire brigade, or wherever, that they receive their retirement periods and also take a preferred position when they take up the public service. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] But unfortunately God has all rejected these requests. It's just a memory. Why do we even have the debate on civil service today within this current hour? Of course, this is inseparable from the question of military service, because it will only be maintained. – This was, of course, the campaign of Mayor Michael Häupl, who did not use him at all in 2010. In fact, he has received a clear rejection from young people, not only because of This is a gag, but due to its sustainable political failure in many areas, and the SPÖ has played clearly in it. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] If we take this current debate on civil service and also on the subject of military service today, we can sum up in total that, on this issue, Mr. Werner Faymann, but also Mr. Darabos, in the truest sense of the word, endangers our national defence, seriously endangers civil protection and social security, because on the one hand, the model of the SPÖ professional army is far too expensive and on the other hand, the aid for natural disasters, but also for rescue operations, for blue light organizations, for disability services will no longer be maintained. This means that your model would be a failure of civilian servants, and this, of course, threatens the rescue and relief organizations. In addition to the 13,500 civil servants, there are also basic defense servants in use for the Red Cross, for the purpose of health services, in use also for hospital services. At the time, I myself had the training as a sanitizer for the surgical department or as a station assistant at the time, was in the Rudolfs Foundation in the Surgical Department for four weeks, and after weeks I also went for the Red Cross as a basic defense officer with civilian servants, where we saved life. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] These are indispensable and recognised benefits that we want to maintain in a well-functioning system, while ultimately you want to implement more money, more tax money for less performance on the one hand at all levels. That's really unimaginable. But this is exactly your principle in a well-proven system that needs to be reformed both in the service of the ground and in the civil service, of course, but where the basic structure is a good one and is a proven system. The current 13 500 civil servants per year are, of course, an integral part of the Blue Light Organisations and Social Services. If their departure had to be compensated, this would cost at least one billion euros per year for all calculations. We have the examples in the Federal Republic of Germany, which you are always trying to do, but which are not really correct. They were presented today. There are in the meantime this voluntary model – and 40,000 voluntarily reported. That would mean 4,000 in Austria. Let's be optimistic, it's supposed to be 5,000. But we still lack 9 000 to 10 000 people in this important area. In other words, your bill is not right from the front to the back, and the comparison examples are not true either. There is therefore no alternative. I say that only if we guarantee a yes to military service will this also mean security and a yes for civil service, because the human rights convention in Article 4 provides exactly that and there will also be the further safeguarding of civil service only if military service is maintained. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] Who else will ensure this performance in the field of disabled transport? Who will ensure that in the case of rescue operations, in the case of medical transport, on wheels, in all these necessary areas, if these thousands of people are missing? I say that this is a massive threat to our social and health systems if you drive it forward. Of course, the state of the federal army, which one must briefly mention, is worrying. But, please, you must not forget how many ÖVP ministers are finally in there. Flickwerk continued and were not ready to make such reforms. And of course, if you're talking about the perspectives of civil service today – coming to the end – then it's quite simple: ==References====External links== Yes is not said for military service! Yes to compulsory military service means Yes to civil service, but also to maintain our security and our neutrality, because we no longer want to have a mercenary army, no more professional army from historical experience. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP]] That should be better known to the SPÖ.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e4271	Next speaker: Mrs. Klubobfrau Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e4292	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) The topic of the current hour was justified by the ÖVP today by the fact that it was about a discussion on the public survey on the 20th century. Let's go. Now I have listened very interested, but I am missing a very essential argument. This survey is about the abolition of general military service. I have not heard any argument from the EIA for maintaining general military service, for why young men at the age of 18 should continue to steal six months of life – this on the basis of a development in Europe, where 17 EU countries have abolished general military service since 2000. Such an intervention into the freedom of young people must be well argued. And taking only the argument of a well-functioning civil service is a bit cheap. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] You should also trust to find once again a military argument for this immense intervention into young men's lives, rather than misuse civil service as the only argument for this. You don't have any more! [[Abg. There are many!]] The abolition of general military service has now taken place quickly in Europe, since we have been able to watch over the last ten years. In addition to Austria, there are only more countries that are at the edge of the EU's external borders, such as Greece, Estonia, Finland, which continue to maintain this model. And I would really like to ask you if you are seriously taking up civil service exclusively in order to continue to argue the general obligation in the current form, which is no longer necessary, in the light of the fact that the first task of the Austrian federal army, namely military defence, is no longer justified. I would like to read to you what the Federal Force Reform Commission established many, many years ago: “There is no conventional military threat to our territory for the foreseeable future.” – By the way, that was unanimous. This is what all parties have signed in this form. And now you continue to argue for the maintenance of general military service! – We argue against that. We are definitely in favour of the abolition of general military service, for very good reasons. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] And that's not just what I'm saying as a two-fold boys' mother. A sentence from the colleague Wöginger at the beginning was also wrong. He meant that this poll was also about the introduction of a professional force. You have to be very precise. It is not about the introduction of a professional force, but Austria already has a professional army! There are already 21 000 plans in the army for professional soldiers. [[Congratulation with greens, SPÖ and BZÖ.]] It is only a single question, whether we continue to steal 22,000 presenters every year six months of their time. That is the only question to be answered. And now to the civil service and to the partially curled attacks you are trying to continue to defend the military duty. They say, a voluntary social, ecological year, a voluntary voluntary year is an attack on volunteering. So if I imagine it this way: I bring my bigger son to school every day. There's a children's lot there. He's doing this on a voluntary basis. And just because there's a police officer who makes this pay, the student lot doesn't stop bringing the kids over the street, because it just makes him happy, because it's just important to him. [[Congratulation with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ]] That's an absurd argument. Secondly, We have 45 percent of the Austrian population in volunteer activities, men and women, young and old, at clubs, in the church, at the Caritas, at the fire brigade, everywhere. 45 percent! And one thing I can really predict to you: They weren't all in civil service, they certainly weren't. That's just part of our society. That should be better supported. Especially in the event of disasters, we have always argued here for better security, especially for the protection of disasters, in terms of vacation and so on. You've always rejected that. So come on. You don't have any arguments like that, that would be an attack on the Honorary Office! Even now sitting in rescue vehicles side by side with each other Main official and honorary. [[Assembly with the Greens and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] If your argument were to apply, it wouldn't be all that at all. To Germany. Again and again, the whole system breaks down in Germany, and in Bavaria you have to wait three hours for the rescue. – So that’s the worst horror propaganda! If you don't believe it, maybe you believe it to your party colleague Angela Merkel. Angela Merkel praises the model as an absolute success model. Chancellor Merkel considers the Federal Volunteer Service to be a true success model. “We have become a lot richer, more humane in our society,” said the government chief” on the occasion of the second year in Berlin. The figures also speak a very clear language. The German Red Cross says we could occupy the double place because demand is so high. So now I wonder what argument remains with you in order not to go a step into a more modern, new future that is now a standard throughout Europe, not only with the ÖVP and the FPÖ.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e4360	Next speaker: Mr Grosz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e4381	I would like to say something about the members of the ÖVP club at the outset. In contrast to the servants and the impotents in your series who give you an expertise on a federal army here today, I have completed my presence in the Enlightenment Battalion 1 of Hackher-Kaserne Gratkorn and therefore, unlike many of you, I know from the ÖVP – a bunker who was unable to serve, a minister of defence who was unsuitable – which is spoken of here, if one fulfils his service, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] For what is happening in this debate today is indeed the perversion of Andreas Khol's quote: “The truth is a daughter of the time.” I would also like to tell the parties the truth. The SPÖ, who has always been the advocate of military service and civil service, and who has now become bitterly opposed to these two institutions, ÖVP and the Freedom Party of Austria, who in recent years and decades have always been opponents of civil service and called for NATO accession, and, and, and, now, to the bitter supporters of civil service here mutate, the metamorphosis we are experiencing here. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. That's where you agreed. That was the oranges!]] And the Greens who were always against the Austrian federal army, while now their clubwoman Glawischnig stands for a professional army in this country. Only, ladies and gentlemen, when it comes to the state of these parties' weak state in Austria, is the question on 20 October. Januaryen a poverty certificate for democracy and the freedom of choice of the Austrians. They don't agree themselves, party-politicize a security question for Austria and want to do so on 20 June. In January 2013, the Austrians surveyed the Austrians who have long seen through this party-political game on the back of civil service, civil servants, as well as the members of the German army. What do you think, ladies and gentlemen, what an added value, a security added value after six months of basic defence service in Austria, which contributes to our security policy? - Zero! What do you believe, then, is the personal added value that this brings to those civil servants who practice civil service for nine months? Do you get a study place at the Faculty of Medicine faster? - No! Do they have tax advantages? - No! Do they get in the Federal Service faster? - No! But these proposals do not bring you, ladies and gentlemen, from the parties here today. [[Abg. Street: Our applications!]] They do not discuss a military orientation, a security policy orientation of Austria. They do not discuss the strengthening of the office of honor and of those who put themselves in the service of the matter. No, you exchange your party policy arguments on the back of those people who make security policy in Austria and who live in Austria for the honorary office, and I do not allow that. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] We do not allow young people to become useful idiots of party politics in this country. That's what you did on 20 July. They want to: young people, who are taken out of their working lives for months, from their training lives, and are then surprised that youth unemployment is rising. For civil service in this country, we pay € 142 million in the year and € 800 million for the military service, just under € 1 billion a year for bringing people out of their training, young people from their entry into work. That is where we say, ladies and gentlemen, 1 billion euros, enough paid for this forced service both in the Federal Army and in the Civil Service. I want to clean up today with a Mar. In this debate, the ÖVP is acting as if there were Members who wanted to abolish the German army. - No! ==References====External links== And all those who are concerned about the further development of the Austrian federal army and who use their brainsmalts to stand for the Austrian federal army. And the introduction or expansion of a professional army in Austria is not the abolition of the Austrian federal army, but is the upgrading and improvement of the Austrian federal army, security policy, but also from the point of view of disaster protection, if we have professionals in Austria who are concerned about security, the protection of disasters in our country. [[OBJECTIVES]] We therefore want a strong federal army, and we also want strong civil assistance, as the BZÖ has proposed, where there are bonuses, where there are better conditions of access to medical studies, for example – it is a mistake that civil servants have to wait one, two years until they get a study place at the MedUni – where there are tax benefits where there are also opportunities for access to the Federal Service for those people, women and men who provide assistance. This is a willingness to do so, and that is the opposite of the forced service that you want to impose on the Austrians, the young people without responsibility over the next few years.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e4460	Next speaker: Mr Hagen. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e4481	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Let's talk about clear text! We are not talking about civil service here, but we are holding a debate on the question of public opinion, in principle of compulsory military service. Nothing else is on the agenda here. This poll is a clear alibi action from the perspective of the Stronach team. We believe that the citizens can decide between Pest and Cholera in this poll. They have managed to leave this open after this popular survey. I am also excited how many citizens will participate in whether it will be 10 percent, 20 percent or 30 percent. I think that if one assumes that, as you say here, this poll is supposed to be binding, then you should have done your homework here in advance. It's always talking about the costs. Ladies and gentlemen! Security costs money. And this security in the federal army has not cost much money at the moment, because you're letting the federal army paralyze. So there must be a possibility here that the federal army can act and work wisely again and has a decent equipment and payment. Ladies and gentlemen, I now have the question: What does – depending on how it goes out – really come after this popular survey? Do you already have a plan B, should the military service be abolished, and will it work? What's the federal army supposed to look like? Do you just want a disaster relief force like the Technical Relief Agency in Germany? Or what exactly do you want? If you don't want a civil protection force, I think you should start with civil protection a little! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grosz.]] The competence of civil protection is at present at the Ministry of the Interior, and the German army is only in favour of assistance in the case of disasters. So that's what you'd have to take care of. Speak clearly about what you really want! What do the Austrians want? And what do the parties want? What is this really about? Which are the future tasks of the Federal Government: Is it an EU protection force? Or is it a purely disaster protection activity? We already have 13 000 professional soldiers in Austria – it has been addressed here – plus additional administrative staff. – I think we should also consider how civil service substitutes look, if this poll is to be conducted for a professional force. The Stronach team has a clear position in this regard in that we want to reward long-term unemployed, who receive the minimum guarantee, with €500 in addition if they provide assistance services to rescue organizations or in areas where they are needed. That means that this should then be designed for about two years. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grosz.]] Another consideration of the Stronach team: I don't know if you know that, but in France, the military is involved in the rescue. That means: The rescue organizations have professional soldiers in their ranks, as well as the fire brigade. We need to consider how we can meet all the requirements here. – We imagine that support points of rescue organizations and fire brigade in agglomerations, where there is voluntaryity, are supported in so far as professional soldiers who are trained for the respective area and who are members of the federal army – such as emergency ananimists who were trained by the Federal Army – are provided with services to these rescue organizations, such as the Red Cross or the Workers' Samaritan Association, if, on the grounds of voluntaryness, too few personnel can be provided. I think that would be a reasonable thing. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] We could imagine the same in the area of fire brigades. In the rural areas, people are mostly commuting to the agglomerations, and therefore there is the problem that the fire brigade cannot provide sufficient personnel for smaller operations or for a sudden alarm or similar. There, too, the German army could help with professional soldiers, who then serve in fire brigades and receive a proper payment. – I think that would be reasonable. Of course, the volunteers are still very welcome for large-scale operations, but this could relieve voluntaryness in this area and help rescue organisations. We from the Stronach team are for these voluntary services, but also for equal treatment in this area. That means: It is not just men who are supposed to do this service, but also women. – I think that would be a service to the state that would be necessary and right when it comes to willingness. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] We don't want any compulsion, we don't want to force anyone. We from the Stronach team want a working professional army with a fair and decent payment.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e4561	Mrs Mag. Christine Lappgeangt is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e4585	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! High house! Many Austrians are currently dealing with the question: Where is the orientation to go in our state? Should we have voluntary access to national defence and voluntary access to the social sector? Or do we want a forced service? Minister Hundstorfer has achieved a very good model for the social sector. Voluntaryness brings more motivation to people, and this possibility is now available – new – for men and women from 18 years to retirement. That's a big, important offer. The civil service, as we now have it, is a compulsory obligation, and young men are stolen from professional and training paths for months of their life. [[Abg. Marek: Please go!]] In this area we have to come to the new century, because in the 21st century. At the end of the century, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, it is a question of being able to do much more with motivation and voluntaryness! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The ÖVP had a different position in previous years, which must also be represented here: If she is now acting as a rescuer of civil service, I believe that this is really a mockery with regard to the history and questions of civil service! For example, ministers Fassleven and Lichal as well as State Secretary Kukacka have always talked about the fact that the civil service of young men is performed only for “comfortable reasons” and that there are Drückeberger there. Minister Lichal even went up to the question of what the civil servants are doing, to say that these would only wash stone goats in the Alpine zoo. – You really have to look at the history and show here how to switch the hats in the ÖVP! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The very excellent model of Minister Hundstorfer foresees that there are employment conditions for 12 months and that for 6,500 people 1,386 € are regulated grossly 14 times a year. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP! I assume that Mr Wöginger is not voluntary in the Red Cross, but is employed professionally. You always say you want the “helping hands ” of society. But the idea of the “helping hands” is linked to you that there is a forced obligation that there be exploitation and that one does not look at the fact that there is a professionalization and a just payment. – We Socialists want the path of voluntaryness, professionalization and just payment. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Civil servants currently work 43.9 percent, and civil servants are also employed in the field of disability and social assistance. These place nine months of their life in the service of society, a pocket money and not a fair reward, and they lose training opportunities and career opportunities in their life course. Due to the excellent model of Minister Hundstorfer, there will also be accountability for further education in the paid volunteer social year, for example access to medical studies. The interest in social and health professions is very high. At present we have 250,000 employees, and 90 000 people per year are new to this area. That means: Civil servants represent only a very small proportion and cannot maintain the system. Rather, we must insist that we find additional voluntary, motivated and professionally committed employees. To be well prepared for the next decades, it is important that we say: A paid voluntary social year is in 21. A good condition for those men and women who are voluntarily interested in working in the social and health sector at the age of 18 to 60 years. ==References== January 2013 is an important future decision. Values Austrians, choose the future!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e4647	Next speaker: Mr Gahr. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e4670	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! High house! Austria still needs reliable, powerful, durable security systems and structures in the future. It is about internal, external, civil, social and general security. For many years, the German army has done a great deal because of military service and military service, civil service. That is why I would like to thank all those who have provided service to this State for peacekeeping operations, for the use of disasters, for the protection of people and for the protection of infrastructure, but also, of course, for border protection. I thank these young people! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The fact is: We will also make great demands and demands on security in the future. This requires answers and offers to young people, but also to society. The ÖVP has a very clear offer here: We are building on three strong pillars, first of all on a slender military service to cope with peacekeeping efforts. Secondly, we are also very much building on disaster service. We experience weekly that there are emergencies and people need our support. Especially with regard to Alpine security, it is a great concern to me as a Tyrolean that we can continue to ensure effective disaster protection in the future. Thirdly, over many years of civil service in Austria, the Federal Minister has already mentioned it today, has grown into a viable and powerful pillar, and from my point of view it would be irrational and even almost negligent to endanger this pillar. We need this civil service system, by the way, through many reforms by the civil service administration Ges.m.b.H. In the case of an accident, the Court of First Instance held that the Court of Justice of the European Communities had failed to fulfil its obligations under the law of the Court of Justice of the European Communities. Today, civil service can be organised efficiently with little administrative burden, and I believe that this model could not be built more efficiently and cost-effectively! – For that, too: Thank you! In the future, as I have already said, we will continue to rely on three strong pillars. It is also a matter of providing young people with access to health, care and disability professions, and I believe it is important to ensure who can best guarantee and guarantee this system. There are quite different approaches, and I think we should discuss them. Now is the right time for that, and until the 20th century. In the future, we should propose a way forward with social security in Austria. – I think the orientation is quite clear. I myself have experienced the federal army, and it was not so easy at the time to be civil servants, but I do not want to remove that from my balance of life, and I have been active in civil service for 22 years. In agriculture, 1 per cent of civil servants are employed when an accident, a disease, and deaths have occurred. This allowed many fates to be accompanied and dealt with. I would also like to say the following: If today's talk is about stealing time for young people, you have to talk to young people! – Anyone who has performed civil service can, I believe, take with him for himself that he has done a valuable service for society at that time, but also personally learned a lot. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It is precisely the experience of these young people that proves that civil service is not a military service, but that we can now decide between federal army and civil service, and in the future a third variant should be added, namely the use of disasters. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scheibner.]] Today, it is always argued that there have been different opinions and that, for example, civil servants have been referred to as blackmailers. [[Abg. Windbüchler-Sushill: You always said that!]] – I claim today: There's never been any civil service press. The image used to be difficult, but today the image has changed and civil servants are recognized in society. That is why, I believe, we should open up, and we should try to win young people for social responsibility in this state. Young people need opportunities. The need for health care staff and the disabled will increase. It is therefore very much about social and social responsibility. 37 years of civil service from today to tomorrow would be irresponsible. That is why, I believe, it is important that civil service has developed in this way. This also reflects the development of society over these years, and I therefore believe that it is in line with the requirements that we should continue to shape civil service in the future. Our Minister of State is responsible for this, and I thank him for that. We know what we have in civil service, and we will continue to be the guardians and custodians of civil service in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e4725	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Fichtenbauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e4746	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! But above all: Dear spectators at home in front of the TV screens! The state belongs to all of us. So how are we going to have to experience that the Austrian structure of security policy and social security is being overthrown from a failed political mood? [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] As mayor Häupl realizes that he is losing the election in Vienna, he runs into a daily political medium that the general military obligation would be lifted. And the Minister of Defense, as the successor of a ‘boomed-out great political mind-construction’, turns from the in-stone-mealling to the opposite in a week. – This is the nature that determines today’s debate. I am very glad that, in the face of the forthcoming debate on 20 February, January which is also presented by the ÖVP and postulate and state clearly: Civil service is military service! Of course, we do not argue civil service instead of the need to maintain general military service. For a while, the Austrian population has had to accept absurd numbering games with regard to the abolition of the general obligation of military service, the willingness by volunteers and an equally qualified army, which is at most as expensive as the current one. The absurdity of these claims is already widely known. It is clear, however, that the population – at least on this point, but also in general, why we are rightly calling for the strengthening of direct democracy – is smarter than the apportions of political confusion. [[Accompaniment with the FPÖ and the Abg. Fürntrath-Moretti.]] It is true, of course, that when civil service was introduced, there was a certain lack of affection for those who were still reported with the claim to civil service at the time, their conscience forbidding military service because it is related to military service. It was good that this examination of conscience was abolished, and it is fact that civil service has now become an indispensable pillar for the supply of the Austrian population with necessary social benefits for decades. Although, for the sake of appetite for political absurdity, Minister Hundstorfer is waiting with number players, these are, of course, no better than the number absurdities of the Minister of Defence. We will be talking to these in these days. – If, at least, it is claimed that 6 500 people can be filled with the same as currently about 13 000 or 14 000 people, also in view of the fact that today’s civil servants of the young population, the group of 18 to 20-year-olds, can make it easier for the associated physical burden in the field of transport services et cetera more difficult than a unemployed 55-year-old who is not yet receiving a pension, this is an absurdity which is not exorbitant! Who can claim such a thing with responsibility?- Oh, my God! [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Of course, the fact that the number of necessary staff would fall is also nonsense. When civil service was introduced in 1975, the average life expectancy in men was 67 and in women was 74 years. Life expectancy has now increased by ten years and will continue to rise. This means that the need to provide older people and, of course, more disease-sensitive people will rise. It's not going to be like it's going to be a green patient, but it won't be a rescue service if it takes 30 minutes. It will not be possible to choose colors, just as today's ground defense minister does not choose colors, which he stands by in case of floods. In this regard, there is a need not to use the "compulsory service" decommissioning cable. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] This is, of course, a classic agitprop vocabulary, which will be applied if the basic ethical principle of being available free of charge, which is essential as a basic element of the functioning of civil society and of Austrian security policy, is to be devalued. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I can only call from this point on: Austrian! ==References== January for general military service in favour of the Austrian State!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e4824	Mrs Windbüchler-Souschill has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e4846	Mrs. Minister! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! The advocates and advocates, first and foremost the EIA and the minister responsible for social peace, play clearly with the fears and concerns of people. [[Assembly with the Greens and with representatives of SPÖ and BZÖ.]] The question: Who cares about my grandmother?, is also essential to me, as for so many people in the population in Austria, and the supposed simple response of the ÖVP is exclusively: They will be cared for by the civil servants. And on the question: Who protects my apartment from the flood?, according to ÖVP, it is equally that there is apparently, in the first sight, a simple answer: Civil servants will protect and help them. [[Abg. Amon: You have no idea!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] These responses by the EIA to complex issues in social policy, complex issues of social policy and civil protection have only a single background, namely the old traditional system of the Cold War, simply to maintain the old system of civil service and basic defence. This is social policy à la ÖVP, and I think that is simply moral and political wrong. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This old system is based on convocations, on sampling, on standing orders, on punishments, on degradations, on forced obligations, and all this not only needs to be renewed, which actually requires the abolition and restructuring of the entire social system into a system in which existence is rewarded and, above all, accessible to women and men alike. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Let me, ladies and gentlemen, clean up with a few myths. First: The basic defence service costs taxpayers €200 million, the civil service costs taxpayers and taxpayers a total of €140 million per year. [[Abg. Großruck: And what does he bring?]] That means 340 million euros. I do not understand what is supposed to be cheap on this, and no one can explain it to me until now, because if these 340 million euros actually flow into active labour market policies if they were actually available to support the social system, then the debate on civil service would not be an essential one at all, and it would not be so much at all at all. Myth Number Two: If civil service falls, there is no reliable replacement for the work now done. – The ÖVP and also the minister behind me assume that the civil servants are the only support of the social system; in childcare, as we have heard, in the care of the elderly, but also in the blue light organizations. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, you assume that if military service and civil service are actually abolished, these 340 million € seem to disappear somewhere but not land in the social system. In my view, this is the completely wrong assumption and proves only once again that the campaign of the EIA goes in the completely wrong direction, namely to maintain the traditional system, rather than to ensure proper labour market policies for the social sector. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] To grant equal access to a social system for women and men, in which there is a secure wage, social security and open to all 18-year-olds: What about this idea, ladies and gentlemen, is so difficult not only to see as a vision, but actually to implement it? I am convinced that it can work to really put a social system on paid feet. Also with myth number three it is still to be cleaned up. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, it is an exasperating fact that you stand here and say, if the civil service falls, so important memorial service also falls. This is outrageous and actually wrong. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] If the ÖVP does not even secure the memorial servants now, while the Minister of the Interior is still responsible for the so important services, it is more than wrong and empathetic to present himself here and to say that the memorial services are also abolished with civil service. Put commemorative services on their own legal legs, open commemorative services to women, settle them best at the Federal Chancellor's Office, and actually secure them with at least one million euros a year: This is the future of memorial services and not civil service. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The perspective of civil service is renewal and restructuring, and, ladies and gentlemen, it is also at home in front of the screens, the abolition of compulsory military service and thus also the polling of the people are an opportunity to put the social system on new feet. That's why: Say “Yes ” to the abolition of obligation to do so!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e4941	Mr Scheibner has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e4962	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I do not need to repeat what I said last time, namely that, from our point of view alone, the question of this popular survey is wrong, because it should not be voted on in de facto by a military system, because the government has agreed on nothing, but it should be clarified once again the fundamental tasks which the Austrian federal army should fulfil, and then one can consider what military system these tasks are best achieved. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] But today it is about civil service, and this is also grotesque – it has already been said – that civil service is brought here as justification for the general military obligation. The colleague, Mr Wöginger, is right: There is no civil service without compulsory military service. Why not? You should think about that. In fact, there is the Convention on Human Rights, and after the Convention on Human Rights – I believe that it is not entirely irrelevant for us as parliamentarians of the democratic Republic of Austria – it is only possible and permissible for forced services, state-ordered services, in two areas: in the context of the general military obligation, in other words, for the defence of the military, and in the event of immediate disasters. There are immediate events of disaster, but not one, as it stands in the room, of general social service. This is illegal to human rights and also contradicts our Austrian federal constitution. That is, the general obligation to do so, if it is necessary to maintain our security, then also requires the service of military service. There too, ladies and gentlemen of the Austrian People's Party, one should read the Austrian Constitution. The Austrian Federal Constitution states the general obligation and the possibility of a military service if there are grounds for conscience. That is to say, a civilian servant has to show reasons for conscience today – they are no longer being checked, but in the federal constitution this is a clear requirement – which makes the service with the weapon impossible. We all know today that this is not at all discussed at all, but it is presented in this way: It is an important pillar of the state, and without this civil service everything breaks down. Mrs. Federal Minister Mikl- Leitner, if it were so - I think so - and this is not good for you to say that you say that without civil servants we should wait an hour for salvation, but if it were so that the Austrian Federal Government and therefore also you build the social system in Austria on civilian servants, then you would all be ready for resignation, because the would be unconstitutional and illegal. That's a supplement, but it can't be a replacement. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Similarly, the Austrian German army has no core task of “Catastrophic Protection”. This is the task of the countries. 350 000 firemen are in the service of the Austrian Civil Protection Service. The German army has an important complementary task, but to do so, as if 5 000 soldiers who can now be provided would fall away, the whole disaster protection would collapse in Austria, is just as irresponsible and insidious and panic-making. This is not the discussion that Austrians have also earned in terms of the security of their country. [[As a result of the accident at BZÖ and the SPÖ representatives.]] I would also like to say the following: - I am now surprised by the honourable Member, Mr Fichtenbauer, who has still argued that 13 000 civilians must be received: Ladies and gentlemen, it is now possible to talk about who is where for or against the military service, but there is no doubt that over the last ten years there has been an incontrovertible attempt to expand the areas of use for civilians. This was because there would otherwise have been many years of waiting for civilian servants, because more and more have been reported for this military service. No one can explain to me that in 2000 there were still 6 000 civil service places, and now it has to be 13 000. Look You're looking at this list for the areas of use! I believe that GLOBAL 2000 and WWF and the Lower Austrian state government and all possible people like to have such cheap labour, but it is certainly not necessary to maintain the social system. And that must be traced back to the true core. [[As a result of the accident at BZÖ and the SPÖ representatives.]] It also says that civil servants are not allowed to take on qualified activities at all. It's inside. Auxiliary care, cleaning, maintenance, gardening, administrative assistance. This is going through all areas. So stay. You're by the truth! Let us seriously talk about how we put the country's security on a better basis, as we, if possible on a voluntary basis, improve the social system accordingly, but please really, especially you from the government parties, this Party-politically motivated discussion on the back of the Austrians.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e5041	Now comes Mr. Klubobmann Ing. Lugar speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e5063	Madam President. High house! My very dear television viewers! I find the discussion very interesting. This is a debate today, because we all know that we will soon have a referendum, but we do not call the debate here today compulsory debate, but we call it a civil service debate which is being held here. [[Abg. Bucher: People's survey!]] [[Abg. Bucher: People's survey, not referendum!]] Now I wonder why. We have heard from the Minister today that civil service is a success story, and I wonder: Why? Why is this a success story in Austria? Why is civil service a success story? A few years ago, civil service was even classified as morally worrying. I remember when Mr Darabos was praised, it said: How can only one civil servant be condoned as the chief army leader or as a minister for the defence of the state? How could that be? [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Strache: He's not a defense minister anyway!]] That is to say, it has been very, very negatively argued because he was a civil servant. Civil service is a military service, we know that. That is, there are people who have said that they want to start something meaningful with their time, which they have had to lead, and they just haven't gone to the federal army, but they have said they want to do something meaningful for society. That's the background. And if it is said today that civil service is a success story, I wonder: For whom? Is it a success story for those who have had to do this, or for those who have provided cheap labor? This is the background: It is not a question of the civil servants providing such great services, because, as we have already heard from Mr Scheibner, it is mainly relief services that are being provided there. This is not about highly qualified work, it is about auxiliary services. The background is: It's cheap, it's just cheap. These 13 000 forced responsibilities do the most cheap work in Austria. That's the background, that's what it's all about, and we should talk about it. That is, we should talk about whether there are other ways to provide cheap workers to these organisations, or – which is also a possible way – they are financially supported so that they have decent workers at their disposal. This would also be a good approach, instead of arguing, we need the general pressure to provide these organisations with cheap workers. That would be an honest discussion. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Now let's talk about what's really important, what the federal army needs! The federal army doesn't need any compulsion. We don't need any forced responsibilities. It is also not necessary to re-train 30 000 Austrians each year for something that no one needs. [[Abg. May. Gaßner: Right!]] The general obligation comes from a time when we had to expect great battles, where we had to expect large tank battles in the heart of Europe. Therefore, there is a general obligation: to have as many semi-trained people as possible available in order to have relatively uneducated cannon feed in the case of war. [[Abg. Amon: You don't know what you're saying!]] If you look at this historically, that's it. Now we're making a detour: Every year, we make up 30,000 people who have forgotten what they have learned after two years at the latest, are unlikely to put a lot of money into it for nothing. That doesn't make any sense. It would be a hundred times better if we put the power, the energy and, above all, the money in there where we need it. We need it with well-trained soldiers. But you can't do that in six months. One cannot generate a well-trained soldier in six months. I can't. That means we have to make it possible for someone to be trained voluntarily for at least two years – but then voluntarily. And as far as civil service is concerned: We do not have to force people to abuse them as cheap workers – I say now – but we could go a different way here. We could introduce a voluntary social service, including two-year-olds, or – and this is also an approach that we have to consider – something else: There are very, very many long-term unemployed people in Austria, and if you have read “The unemployed of Marienthal” – I would recommend this to you – then you can see how terrible it is if you are long-term unemployed and have no perspective. Why don't we go here and offer these people an alternative, a perspective? We cannot force these people, of course, but we can motivate them by giving them a little more pressure to accept this civil service until they have found adequate work. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] That would once be a progressive model, that would be a good thing. Because one thing is also safe: If someone is one, two, three years unemployed and does not find work, he needs a perspective. Here we could do something positive. We don't need any compulsion! What we need is a voluntary service, and above all we need a powerful army. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e5172	No one is reporting on this. That concludes the debate. [[10:36:38]] Current European hour
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e5194	We're now coming to the current one. European hours on the subject: “No to higher EU contributions with Faymann’s approval – Austria has paid enough!” Mr Klubobmann Bucher spoke as the first speaker. The speaking time is up to 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e5221	Madam President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Above all, Mr. Bundeskanzler! We have therefore chosen this urgent issue for this current hour, namely the “No to higher EU contributions”, because we see that we are now negotiating and thinking about how we can extort more money from the net contributors, especially tax money. We are therefore saying that the Austrian taxpayers are self-confident and self-confident: Paid enough for what is happening at European level! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] It is therefore also an appeal to you, Mr Bundeskanzler, to take seriously the mood of the Austrian people and to realize that it is no longer an understanding of how the funds are wasted at European level. I also appeal to you, Mr Bundeskanzler, and above all to your home mind, perhaps also to your own feelings and to your own dealings with money. If you bought a car that costs 30 000 €, would you also tell the car dealer from the outset, I will pay 35 000 €? Would you do that, Mr. Federal Chancellor? Or do you therefore behave so rewardingly when it comes to the money of the Austrian taxpayers because it is not your own money that you celebrate at European level? – I suspect that you show far too little seriousness and far too little care when it comes to using the Austrians’ hard-earned money as efficiently as possible at European level. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Just this week we are discussing the budget for the coming financial year, and we see that you are making debt again, that Austria is heading to a record level of debt and you do not know at the level of the Federal Government how we want to finance all these expenditures. And yet, Mr Bundeskanzler, in an “Kurier” interview on the EU contributions we have to make: They have already risen and will continue to rise. – In other words, you will issue a free letter stating that the net contributions for the EU budget will continue to be increased by 2020 in the coming years. That's what we want to prevent from BZÖ. We want you to think about what money it is and what this money is used for. We are in favour of having to make a contribution as a member of the European Union, and we from the BZÖ are not an EU-enemy party – no, that is not our decision! – but we believe that every EU Member State has the duty to take care, and we also have the obligation to ensure that taxpayers’ resources are best managed. And we miss that on the side of the Federal Government. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Therefore, we have a great understanding of the behaviour of the UK that they are primarily fighting for their country and not putting up an understanding of what the funds are used for. We also call for the right to veto, which Austria has, to cut down on the table, when it comes to extending the funds at European level, for which many have no understanding. How do the Austrians get into this? – Austria needs to be saved, there are zero wage rounds for officials, but not for politicians. For government politicians, 1.8 percent will be doubled next year. The population has no understanding of this. And why? – Because in Austria we earn less and less, because net wage growth is falling, ladies and gentlemen, and we are also falling back in the wealth ranking. Of course, this is a consequence of a wrong EU budgetary policy, which is going to be devastating here! Ladies and gentlemen! No one understands that EU officials will earn more by 8.8 percent in the future. One sees and reads, even in reports from the First German Television, for example, that an EU secretary today deserves €8 000, not grossly like every Member here in the House, but net. Net €8 000 is worth an EU secretary in Brussels today! [[Call the BZÖ: A madness!]] In addition, as 16 percent of the foreign allowance is that a budget allowance is that, when a child is studying, 500 € are paid. Ladies and gentlemen! This is a wealth of allowances and privileges that you will find here in a catalogue of vouchers that nobody understands, basically, where an EU official, when he adopts a child, gets 20 days off, of course can retire at 55 years of age and has 85 days of vacation a year. I really wonder, ladies and gentlemen, what do you say to the workers in Austria? How do you explain that? How does this explain the Federal Chancellor, the chief representative of the working party in Austria? [[BZÖ's condolences.]] How do you argue about this to your comrades who have to work hard, I don't know, earn €1 300 a month? A EU secretary has 8 000 € net, 85 days off a year and goes into retirement without supplements of 55 years. How do you explain that? No one understands! This is completely absurd and dissociated, which is happening in Brussels. 45 000 officials are fed by European taxpayers, ladies and gentlemen. This costs €65 billion, which is no longer portable and financeable. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] This has nothing to do with EU hostility, so that this is said once and for all, but that is no longer serious. It has nothing more to do with house mind. It's pure prank! EU technicians take European taxpayers off and pick where they can only work. This is reality and you support it by issuing a free letter to these technocrats, Mr. Bundeskanzler. That's what we want to prevent. We want to stop that. That means: Enoughly paid, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Since you are also so proud of the financial transaction tax, I expect, Federal Chancellor, that you will also achieve in the negotiations that Austria's net contributions will fall and will not remain unchanged in the future. They must be reduced, because if additional funds are collected via the financial transaction tax, then this must also be felt by taxpayers in Austria by reducing net contributions. We expect that from you, Federal Chancellor! This would be a success in the negotiations. [[New condolences with BZÖ.]] It has long been that way – and you know this – that all these measures at European level do not produce results – whether this is the net contribution to the prosperity balance at European level, whether it concerns the rescue shields or Greece's aid, now the third aid package for Greece. There is a third aid package with €30 billion, while the Greeks really suffer, have nothing of it, and only the banks benefit. Mr. Bundeskanzler, also as the chief comrade, how can you support the fact that all the banks, only the banks benefit, receive credit ratings and are the actual profiters of this crisis? How can you sell that to the population as a “save ”? This is not a rescue you are operating here, but you are selling the taxpayers of Austria! That, ladies and gentlemen, is the reality! And you should think about that. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] So it is very wrong in the European Union. This has nothing to do with EU resistance, but it has to do with the home mind. The Greeks are not helped, even the Spaniards are not helped. Where is solidarity with 350 000 Spaniards, my honour Ladies and gentlemen of the Social Democracy, who have to leave their homes because the banks are making the rents due? Where's your solidarity? Where are these good people who are always against everything in this world, which is unjust? This is pure injustice! The banks benefit – and they are the biggest supporters of the bank mafia.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e5338	Mr Faymann spoke on a preliminary opinion. The speaking time should not exceed 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e5359	Madam President. Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to say very briefly on the development of the European Union, on the financial framework and thus on the contribution of Austria, that we have today received a report from the Social Minister in the Federal Government, according to which the level of employment, the number of employees is still increasing. [[Abg. Street: But not with Austrian workers!]] As regards unemployment, there are individual groups that are quite concerned about us, including Austria, it is clear from the European comparison that Austria is still one of the countries with the lowest unemployment and the lowest youth unemployment. [[Abg. May. Honey: What about the growing number of part-times?]] But why do I say this with the increase in employment? – Because the increase in employment not only has something to do with products that we produce in Austria and sell in Austria, or with services we provide exclusively in Austria and for Austrians, but also because, of course, this economic performance – and, Mr Bucher, we must say this to people, if they are to be fair, together – because these products we produce and export also need someone who buys them, and because the services we provide in tourism and elsewhere also depend on whether this can be done by people in Europe or not. [[Abg. Bucher: I didn't talk about that!]] Therefore, I wanted to say, we get a lot back when we participate in a Europe in which unemployment no longer increases, but goes back and where people can live properly, also have purchasing power, can also afford something. [[Abg. Kickl: Do you want to promote this with our member contributions?- Oh, my God!]] This will ultimately benefit the Austrian economy and the young people who sit on the visitor gallery once they find work in an area that has to do with export. After all, every fourth job in Austria is either directly or indirectly related to export. We shouldn't keep this to the people. On the contrary! We must communicate this context much more clearly that a strong Europe also benefits the Austrian economy. You and I all praise the small and medium-sized enterprises. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] However, the small and medium-sized enterprises also have a strong dependence in Austria on how industrial enterprises develop because many of these small and medium-sized enterprises work directly or indirectly with industrial enterprises or for industrial enterprises. The industry in particular has made it quite clear on a number of occasions that a strong economic location in Europe is the only way to create a framework for a strong industrial location in Europe. This strong industrial location in Europe does not come about by reducing the European level, but by increasing the European level. And of course this also applies to the financial framework. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Why, ladies and gentlemen, is a financial framework that goes over seven years better than a financial framework that may be provisionally extended by one year each? . I think you will agree that someone who thinks a little more medium-term and sustainable cannot agree that we move from year to year with some shady budget, with a commission to the next year, for example, to projects such as the Brenner Base Tunnel, which for Austria is more dependent on payments from the European Union and is to be more targeted from planning performance to construction performance in the next period. Why should we benefit from only a provisional budget? [[Abg. Dr. Moser: That's why he's problematic, the Brenner Base Tunnel!]] On the contrary! We then have to see if this is still in the budget every year, and I would like to know who breaks down in a tunnel construction, in an infrastructure project. That is, predictability, reliability, admissibility for economic developments in all areas, including teaching workshops, is necessary. A financing for one year for a workshop to get, that's too little. You need a longer breath in such a project. Therefore, it must be the top objective of this financial framework – that is the first priority – and not a veto of Austria. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] That is why I did not understand what you meant by ‘ the demand of Veto’. We, like everyone else in the European Union, have a veto right. [[Abg. Bucher: I requested it from you!]] - Yes, I asked. – That is why you do not need this because every country and every head of government involved in the negotiations has the opportunity to conclude: So, because of my claims that are not fulfilled, I can't take part in this. But what is supposed to be so positive about that? – You presented it as if it were a question of courage. But what is so courageous about that when, at the end, nothing comes to pass? Who actually benefits from it? Let us take the question of the provisional budget! The only ones who have their discount in primary law, and thus a high amount, is UK. So, well, they have a discount in primary law available and have also fixed it in a provisional budget. But what about our return flows? – We have a number of return flows for which legal bases are necessary. And then we create a provisional budget and hope that, especially for rural areas, the second pillar, which is so important to us, the laws will be extended, or those laws that run out at all, will affect a large part of our discount? Why are we so sure that, if nothing comes about, precisely these laws that will benefit us will be supported by the others? In fact, it is true that no country – including Austria, including me as the head of government – gives out the possibility not to agree. But the interest – and this needs to be made even more clear – must be that something comes about. Unemployment is rising in Europe. If what I would like to do is increase measures, particularly in employment, infrastructure, research, development, or, see vocational training, even create something new, then this will need at least a seven-year period – and not an annual visit. That is why I firmly believe that our demands, the discount for Austria, which has disappeared from the Commission proposal, are entitled to come back to life – it can no longer be found in the present proposal. [[Abg. Bucher: Strangely!]] And we want to explain why we want this discount for Austria. [[Abg. Bucher: But not a Commissioner!]] However, we want to be the second priority, especially in that point, where there are so few advocates, namely for rural areas, as Austrians, especially for this so-called second pillar. And I'd like to tell you why: There is, after all, support for the price in agriculture – and we are talking about around 40 percent of the budget. There are so many large countries that defend this pillar at all costs. There is a strong locomotive in Europe. But in the second area, where our miners and our organic farmers are concerned, we are quite alone. There are few allies, there is hardly anyone who defends it as we do. I am convinced that in the negotiations we should say that the miners in Austria do violent things, the rural area is crucial for Austria, for political and economic development, for the soul of Austria. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] And organic farming is not only the future of Austria, but organic farming is also the future of Europe. It is therefore a European concern to make massive progress towards this development. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP as well as by Dr. Moser and Dr. Pirklhuber.]] So these negotiations will become tough because, on the one hand, the pan-European interests have to be discussed and discussed, there is also much to be achieved, and, on the other hand, the respective national, where it is finally counted together, who does as much of his GDP or of what he can afford due to the data situation. It's clear: Austria stands well – of the employment situation, of the economic data, of what we produce, of what we do together in this country. [[Abg. Bucher: From debt?- Oh, my God!]] We are the best, and therefore, of course, it must be assumed that the weak get more than the strongest in this budget. But I am still glad to be the head of government of a strong country in these negotiations. I prefer to have the troubles and the struggles over the next few weeks or maybe months – nobody knows when the financial framework is actually being concluded – I prefer the conflicts and the discussions about the fact that a strong country like Austria of course does not have so many supporters who want to give us something in addition that we will also fight for our interests there, that is all better than we would go into the negotiations as a country that somehow exudes from the euro zone or is speculation object for many, as some parties also represent in this House. Therefore: A strong representation of Austria for a strong Europe benefits both – the development in our country and the development of Europe.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e5539	I would draw attention to the fact that the speaking time of all other participants in the current European hour according to § 74b para. 2 in conjunction with § 97a para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure shall not exceed 5 minutes. The first is Mrs Mag. Muttons. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e5563	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Bundeskanzler, thank you for the clear and objective return to the facts. We need this here, we have to say it again and again and again and again, clearly and loudly, because there are very different opinions here, as we have heard. The BZÖ's motto today seems to be: Everyone for themselves. Selfishism and island thinking, ladies and gentlemen, have always been bad advisers. Austria is one of the most modern, prosperous and powerful countries in the world today. And why? – Because we have taken advantage of the opportunity offered by the European integration process. A simple bill is enough to prove that. The Federal Chancellor has already said: The majority of our EU contribution goes back to Austria, namely agriculture, education, infrastructure projects, research and the like. So net, we pay 0.2 percent of our GDP to the EU. [[President Neugebauer shall take over the chairmanship.]] However, regardless of that, our EU membership makes the Austrian economy grow by five times a year – five times a year. So if you compare net to gross, it simply calculates wrong and thinks far too short. As an export-oriented country, Austria benefits from the EU as hardly any other country in Europe. The EU secures us a huge internal market, which we need for the sale of our products, the EU stabilises and democratises our eastern and southern neighbours, and provides Europe-wide minimum standards on environmental and social issues. Those who honestly want to calculate costs and benefits of the EU must also take these factors into account, including these factors. Then it will be recognized that the profit is much higher than the contribution we make. But one thing is clear: Austria is willing to make an appropriate contribution, but the budget in which we pay must meet certain conditions and standards. The new EU financial framework must be set up in such a way that the funds are effectively and effectively used to address these major challenges that we face. This means that research and education are promoted, the same applies to trans-European infrastructure projects and, of course, to sustainable work and employment measures. I am particularly thinking about the Youth Guarantee, which we have often talked about. Austria is an example in this regard. We should promise young people in Europe that they will receive a job four months after completion of their schooling. This will certainly cost money in the short term, but this money will save us from a social disaster in the long term. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I believe that this would be a strong sign of solidarity if all the Member States refrain from their discounts and devote this money, for example, to the fight against youth unemployment, just as the Federal Chancellor has already proposed. [[Abg. Kickl: Can it be that you're contrasting the chancellor's line?]] [[New applause at the SPÖ.]] To the rural area. – The rural area – which the Federal Chancellor has already said – has to be promoted. We need a broad supply system for rural areas. This involves extending childcare to the broadband internet in rural areas. That means it must benefit all people, be it those who live in the city, or those in the countryside. Nevertheless, the EU budget must also contribute to reducing public debt. One way, for example, would also be to cover the large farmers' funding. This could save millions without endangering a single job. I think we could also work together again on the financial transaction tax. Eleven countries are ready to introduce them. [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign.]] If we continue to fight, so that more countries participate if more countries introduce this financial transaction tax, then this would be a constructive and inclusive policy, which is good for Austria and good for the renovation of our budgets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e5624	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Ikrath. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e5645	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen. Mr Bucher, despite my real personal appreciation that I still have for you, I must say: I am not surprised that what you have said today is confusing and illogical and populist, not only the voters, but also your own mandates run away from it. [[Call the BZÖ:Well, well, na!]] Austria, the Austrians are among those who benefit most from EU membership. We are among the winners, and I will try to present this now by means of a simple calculation example – just so that the BZÖ can understand it too. Because of our EU membership, the economy has grown by 0.4 to 0.6 percent of gross national product annually. That's about 10 percent throughout the membership period. These 10 percent, totalled on a gross national product of roughly 300 billion, are 30 billion. If we put a 40 percent tax and tax rate on these 30 billions – which is now very conservative and very reserved – this means additional revenue for the state and therefore for the Austrians of 12 billion per year by EU membership. If I deduct what we netly pay into the EU budget, on average, by 700 million, that means, we can use about 11.3 billion more every year because of membership of the EU for Austrian concerns – that is already a decent batch. Now I'm asking you, colleague Bucher: If you have 500 € to install, where can you do this to get back 11 300 € at the end of the year? – Not even at my bank! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] [[Abg. Bookbooker: The invoice is not right!]] In EU membership. [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: This is inconceivable!]] [[Abg. Kickl: Mr Colleague, with the argument you still need the 700 million!]] That is the reason, dear colleague – just to calculate!, to write down, to calculate and to give me the right, it is no different – that is the reason why we want more EU, that we are also willing to pay more, if necessary, because Austria benefits more because the Austrians are especially benefiting. [[Abg. May. Stefan: We already have that! It's wrong!]] This is very important for young people. It's not about it, and you have to understand that – you understand it, you just don't want to admit it out of populism – it's not about whether we pay more, but about what these means are used for. [[Abg. Booker: A secretary gets 8,000 net!]] Mr Bucher, yes, I listened, it wasn't right, but what I'm saying now may be illustrious, even for you. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mr Bucher, what we demand from the EU institutions, is that they budget sparingly and cost-consciously, on the one hand, and on the other hand, in line with the principle of Better Donation, that is, that the funds should be used wisely and correctly. What does “smart and proper use” mean? – to give impetus for growth and employment! The European Union is based on the 2020 strategy, which I hope is known to everyone. The focus of this strategy is on supporting small and medium-sized enterprises, ensuring youth employment, including young people with migration backgrounds – an important topic in Europe – and also on ensuring investment in education and research and innovation. We want a knowledge-based and innovation-oriented economy that is capable of two things: firstly, to compete between the USA and Asia – one of the major challenges – and secondly to handle those necessary social benefits that we can be quite proud of in Europe. [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign.]] What do we want from our economy in Austria? – We want the EU budget to support rural development – the German Chancellor has said this very clearly – and I also think much of the Federal Chancellor’s and Government’s idea that we will bring all the discounts we have now into a fund – that would be 7 billion – and that it will provide powerful impetus for youth employment. [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign again.]] With one word [[Abg. Stache: Maybe another final sentence, Mr. Ikrath!]] We want a Europe that ensures growth, employment and competitiveness. What we don't need is BZÖ's populism, and we won't need a veto either.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e5785	I would just like to draw attention to this: These are not block times, but the speaking time of each individual speaker is limited to 5 minutes. Next speaker: Mr. Klubobmann Strache. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e5809	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr State Secretary! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In the course of his statement today, the Federal Chancellor has explained that we have new, additional jobs in Austria. – Yes, absolutely right, but talk to your party friend and country captain Niessl in Burgenland, who will confirm to you that all new jobs in Burgenland have unfortunately been occupied by God last year by no Austrian, but to 100 percent of Eastern European workers who also work cheaper and cheaper! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Vilimsky: Right!]] There is an eviction process, which leads to more and more work being done to increase unemployment and, unfortunately, more and more Austrians are landing in unemployment. You also said today that Austria would be good at it. So I have to say, with all due respect: Record state debt, record tax burden in Austria, an unemployment which unfortunately rises dramatically to God, when you add all the areas, including the training areas and, of course, the early pensioners who are necessarily sent to retirement and therefore stand there without work, and a recession that stands at the door – all this obviously doesn't concern you. Everything you've been trying to do today. It must also be said, Mr Bundeskanzler, that in the last few days you have announced that Austria's EU contributions will increase, that we must expect that we will have to pay higher contributions in the future. This is the way in which we are Once again, it clearly shows which side you are on. Whenever any desire comes from the European Union to the detriment of the Austrian population, You are the first one to jump into it, instead of finally doing what the Austrian people have to expect and expect from you, namely that the Chancellor is finally standing on his back and representing the Austrian interests, that he at last also notes that this high tax burden that we in Austria have to face today, which the citizens have to pay, that these Austrian taxpayers are being used for the people in Austria, for the compatriots! [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] We need in so many areas. Here in the country must be invested, in education where we need to create sustainability and improvements, in innovation, in research, in labour market initiatives, everywhere there would be an investment necessary, in construction projects that are in place, in infrastructure areas et cetera. But no! On the high contributions we make annually – and it is, with all appreciation, more than €3.6 billion that we Austrians pay grossly to the European Union – you just say we get a little bit back. That's a milkmaid bill! The €800 million we pay net – net! – would be better off in Austria. We need them, for example, in the field of agriculture or elsewhere. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Last Saturday, ÖVP Vice-Chairman Spindelegger at least took the term ‘veto’ against the budget. This would be important, and of course it takes courage and character to fight against such desires of EU bureaucracy. Unfortunately, I cannot take this announcement seriously, because every time Mr. Vice-Chancellor has once shown a little courage, he has been put together immediately, just recently again by Mr. Juncker and others. He was actually back on track and worked well again. Ladies and gentlemen! It is not surprising, however, that Mr Spindelegger cannot prevail at the level of the European Union, but he has enough difficulties in his own party to look at how, in truth, Erwin Pröll gives the line. But one thing is clear: The Austrians expect you, Mr. Bundeskanzler, to see the net contributions or gross contributions falling significantly! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] There is no reason to pay such high contributions to this construction in the event of a record debt, in the event of a record tax burden, in the case of problems in the labour market with rising unemployment, in the event of a threatening recession development, especially since we know that an EU Tintenburg is sitting in Brussels, that incredible bureaucratic processes are taking place, that even the European Court of Auditors has stated that more than 20 percent of these contributions are misused, in dark channels. Thus, there is no sign of “efficiency” – a term that is constantly being tried in this context. That is exactly what people expect, and we liberals are in the word of the Austrians. We do not want us to continue to get rid of Austrians and continue to have disadvantages that billions of Austrian taxpayers continue to flow towards the bank speculators. That is exactly what you are responsible for, you are the Hampelmann of the bank speculators, Mr Bundeskanzler! Today, they represent the interests of those who have caused this crisis rather than finally having the consequences of ensuring a bank bankruptcy order, rather than finally ensuring that those managers who have done this damage to the financial market as a brand-makers are held accountable. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] They live in solidarity with the bank speculators who have done this damage, not with their own citizens, nor with the Greek or Portuguese citizens at all. I would therefore like to conclude by saying: After you have also given us the ESM with red-black-green approval, we will always come out clearly and clearly what people expect: Reduce net contributions to enforce Austrian interests in Europe, finally release Greece from the euro area, instead of driving forward the development towards debt union as you did! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign.]] People expect this because they want to see a peaceful future in Europe and not an unsatisfying development that has now arrived through the debt union.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e5891	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Rossmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e5912	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr State Secretary! High house! Mr Klubobmann Strache, please stick to the truth! The contribution of Austria to the European Union was €2.7 billion in 2011. There can be no talk of over €3 billion. The net contributions from Austria – I have it here, I can show it to you – amounted to € 560 million on average in recent years. [[Abg. Street: 3,6!]] If you compare now, because you've shuddered at the banks like this, and also Mr. Bucher has shuddered at the banks like this: In any case, in Austria we have already put five and a half billion € in sand for Austrian banks, one tenth of which makes up the net contribution of Austria to the European Union with high added value each year. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I would like to call for this House to finally hold an objective debate on the EU budget. [[New condolences with the greens.]] I know that the EU budget is a hateful forced levy, it is at least seen. I don't see it like that. He is also seen as a festival of national interests, and that is exactly what we can follow in this debate here in this House. If Mr Bundeskanzler meant that he could imagine higher contributions, I see this as a step in the right direction. On the other hand, we have to see that, on the other hand, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr Lopatka has left immediately and has said that, first of all, the British rebate must be maintained, secondly, there must be no cuts in rural development resources, and thirdly, we must save more than what the Cypriot Presidency provides, namely 50 billion. I read from the Austrian position: Austria welcomes the Presidency's approach to making reductions compared to the EC proposal. However, the proposed 50 billion can only be a first step in the right direction. - Quote. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: That's how it looks!]] You, Mr Bundeskanzler, and also you, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, want to reach a total financial framework of about €1,000 billion along with the net payers in the order of €100 billion. The total financial framework is only € 130 billion each year. This is a drop on a hot stone for the Europe 2020 strategy to set itself a number of objectives in the field of environmental, social and employment; For example, reducing poverty by 20 million people. That's where we see a rise! You already have to explain to me how this is to be done, Mr Bundeskanzler or ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, if you say you want to pay less and have more. This is the square of the circle. Yes, that won't go! This is no longer a pitiful attitude to the EU budget, as we have been told and presented by Mr Strache on the one hand and Mr Bucher on the other. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] There is no reference to the fact that, in order to comply with the Europe 2020 strategy, more resources must be available in the European budget: to combat unemployment, to achieve the ecological objectives, but also to get out of recession. There is no mention that within the EU budget we need substantial redundancies. A significant proportion – currently around 40 percent – is still available for the agricultural sector. As we do, direct payments are to an unbearable extent included in the agricultural industry. That must be an end! The European Social Fund, which has not had any more money since October, must be reformed to combat poverty, unemployment, education, research, sustainable growth, but also rural areas, but not just rural agricultural policy, no, for all rural people. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] That also means: Use of old-age care, childcare and the like. Efficiency gains – of course, not a question, but we also need to look at the funding side. We really have a means with the financial transaction tax, where we could create our own EU contribution. I would very much welcome the introduction of parts of the financial transaction tax into the EU budget. And then we would come to a win-win situation together with the retranslations. But if you, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, swing the Vetoceules, go to a page with David Cameron and the FPÖ; They are making themselves the agents of the FPÖ, and this is a shame. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e6002	Next speaker: Mr Scheibner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e6023	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! If my previous speaker of the Greens for more payments Austria's entry into the EU and now also wants to Europeanise childcare, then this may sound a bit strange, but it's not really relevant. [[Abg. May. Rossmann: I didn't say that!]] Mr Ikrath is now coming in, which is why: I just hope, my dear colleague, that no one from the EU Commission has heard your speech, because then we do not have to negotiate at all. We have just heard a small plant of Austrian self-confidence in the European Union, namely, from Secretary of State Lopatka, then from Foreign Minister Spindelegger – I believe these are still party colleagues of yours – who have at least put a veto into space. This means that we want our discount and also some additional support for Austria, otherwise, at least possibly – that is already very relative – one will not agree to the EU budget. So far, so good. This could be supported, because you need a negotiating position first. Whether you like to do this in the end or not is something else, but you have to go into negotiations to put the plows down if you want to achieve something. But then Mr Ikrath comes out here – from the same party as Mr. Foreign Minister – and says: Well, not a talk about Veto, but – I quote –: We want to or should pay more, and this money should only be used well. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] So how is that now? What's the negotiating position? The Federal Chancellor has already said a little: What about the veto? – I ask You really are: They are going into important negotiations in which the interests of Austria are best represented. We already have an EU Commissioner who voted in favour of the Austrian discount. But now the Austrian Federal Government is coming, the government representatives are coming, and a delicate plant appears by saying that we might want to negotiate properly. But no, Ikrath has already come out of here and says that we do not want to pay less, we want to pay more. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Ikrath.]] So, what's that? Are you going to negotiate with the bank in the same way when it comes to the bank's interests? I have experienced you differently, Mr President, also in the committees. When it comes to your interests, you're negotiating hard. When it comes to the interests of Austria, you want to give up everything that is being done in the European Union. And I'll tell you: That's the wrong approach! Mr Bundeskanzler, you say: Nobody wants to give us something in addition, because we're so rich. – No one needs to give us anything in addition. We don't want to pay any more extra for the mismanagement that happens everywhere and is now being exposed again and again. Mr Ikrath, we no longer want to assume liability for European banks, which then “thank you” – that is, for the banks – quite different from what we would imagine. I also say this in the sense of solidarity with the European population. A few weeks ago, I criticised here from this speaker's desk that the Spanish banks have also received €100 billion in liability from Austria to cover their own mismanagement. How do these Spanish banks thank for €100 billion of liabilities? [[Abg. May. Ikrath: Not at all!]] – By removing their own population from the apartments, which, as we have now seen, has led to suicide. And now, in Spain, we are trying hard to clean this up. This is European policy, and this is the lobbying policy that we are criticising here. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] That is why there is no longer any euro for this mismanagement, Mr President. You'd have to agree. Solidarity yes, also with the European population, but not at our expense so that the speculators can continue to make their money here. [[Abg. May. Ikrath: But that's cheap now!]] And if we're already with the speculators, Mr. Cot – No, that's not cheap, that's expensive! [[Abg. May. Ikrath: Go ahead, that's so cheap!]] Cheap are your milkmaid bills, Mr. Ikrath, in which you are fictitiously reading out any profits! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] We have enough of that, Mr President, because we have heard that every time. [[New call for tender of the Abg. May. Ikrath.]] Every time it's been about rescue packages when it came to liability packages – you can't challenge me, I remember to answer you enough! – we have heard from the government: It's all a business. – No, this is not a business, we have to pay! If it is necessary, if it makes sense, you are also ready to do so, but lead Don't tell us behind the light, and don't say the untruth! I am now hearing about the financial transaction tax again, which should also be brought into a fund. Since, from this government bank, the Minister for Finance has said: This is supposed to flow into the Austrian budget. [[BZÖ and Abg. Bitch.]] Where's all this? [[Abg. That's how it is! That is the decisive thing: it must flow into the Austrian budget!]] That's the problem. We confess to Europe. We are also committed to the idea of a common European Union. But there is a need to discuss openly and honestly, in the sense of the citizens and not in the sense of the bureaucracies and the institutions. If you finally wanted to represent Austria optimally and offensively, you would also have us by your side. But with these bills you make here, and with this misinformation you will stay alone.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e6173	Next speaker: Mr Klubobmann Ing. Lugar. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e6195	Mr President. High house! My very dear television viewers! We have already heard from the Federal Chancellor today that there are many positive effects – including economics – as far as the European Union is concerned. Unfortunately, this is not quite right now. If you look at a country like Switzerland and compare it with Austria, you can see that we have not benefited too much from the EU – by the way, other countries have not. That means you can't see the absolute numbers. Of course, we have had stronger economic growth in recent years. But if you compare this with countries that are not with the EU, you can see that they have had even stronger economic growth than we have. That is, if you compare something, you can't compare apples to pears, but you must keep a close eye on the numbers. But we are – and I must say that – for a strong European Union. That's what we're for. But we see the benefits more in peacekeeping. That means that for us Europe is a peace project – you must not lose sight of that. Of course, it is also an economic project, but not the way you represent it in terms of employment and so on, but there are also merits in the area of the outbreak of monopolies; we have also had some benefits through the EU. We have also had some advantages in terms of competition. That's how we see it. But for us, the peace project is always in the center. Now is the question of whether we should increase the EU budget or our share that we pay: What do we get for it? That's the central question. Now it is argued that there is an investment in education that fights unemployment. Now I'm wondering, Why does the EU have to do this? Why do we have to change the way we send our money to the EU and then hopefully get back again via detours to solve the educational problem in Austria or to provide employment here? That doesn't make sense. And if you look at what the EU is doing with its money, you know that this is the wrong way. There has been a discussion about four months ago in the context of a close look at the promotions in the field of wine-growing. The EU is making a real abstraction Things: On the one hand, the EU is promoting wine growers who shut down their fields. That is, vines that are not used accordingly are promoted – which is supposed to be good in principle, because we seem to have too much wine in Europe. On the other hand, the EU is promoting wine growers who produce more wine. That's what she does. And what has this led to in the past? There has been a report on this by the European Court of Auditors. It has led to the fact that we spent twenty million and have ultimately achieved nothing but that the status quo has remained the same. That means it was produced much more, but we spent millions. And that's not what I'm talking about. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] A second example: this “wander circus” in Europe. We have for decades had a “walling circus” between Brussels and Strasbourg. [[Abg. Brosz: That's what the right one is talking!]] This must be broken on the tongue: There is a permanent spending of money just to satisfy the vanity of the French. And everyone who addresses this is immediately accused of being non-European and other. We also need to talk about this: Do We Need This “Wander Circus ”? And now we're right where we have to go. Now we are where the EU demands a greater contribution from us and we would be in a very good negotiating position. We have a good negotiating position. You want something from us. It's not obvious that we just pay more where we already pay enough. Now you want something from us. And now the Federal Chancellor could go here and say, yes, we are ready to talk about it, but we want finally the homework done, we want the money not to be thrown away in the EU, we want this "wander circus" to finally stop where billions are put in the sand. We could talk to you about that. [[Abg. Haubner: We could already start with this in Parliament!]] We could finally break up this promotion jungle. We need to talk about it! If we don't talk about it, if you want money from us, then why don't we? We are never in such a good position again as now where we could negotiate and really move good things. And what happens? - Nothing! And that's the problem. This is symptomatic, not only in the EU: It is always taken into the taxpayer's wallet. That's what the Federal Government is doing. [[Abg. Dolinschek: You in your club too!]] That doesn't do the homework either and always gets into the taxpayer's wallet because it's easier. It's easier to get into the taxpayer's wallet than finally doing homework. [[Abg. Petzner: What are you doing? 2 million!]] That is why, Federal Chancellor: If you are in a good position, then carry out these negotiations in such a way that, in the end, an advantage to the taxpayer comes!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e6283	Next speaker: Mr. Klubobmann Dr. Cap. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e6304	Mr President. High house! In-depth on individual points from the various previous speakers: Of course, it is the task of every country and therefore of Austria to ensure that the funds going to Brussels are handled responsibly that there is the appropriate control. There is the anti-corruption authority that takes up its fight against the misuse of these funds, and there is an initiative by individual countries, at the head of Austria, introduced on 12 July. July 2012, which calls for a proper consideration of how to save up to €15 billion in the area of administration and administration for the period from 2014 to 2020. That is to say, within the budget, it is very important that there be savings here as regards payment et cetera, and that one is opposed to privileges. Austria is at the forefront of this initiative and will ensure that it is implemented. [[Abg. Booker: The opposite is the case: 8.8 percent get their salary increased! Do the red secretaries also earn €8,000 net?]] However, we still have to take account of this debate, and this leads us to the principle debate: Why even a member of the European Union and the Eurozone? – And this is quite easy to answer: In times when there is increased competition between the Greater Asia region, especially China and its economy, the USA and many emerging countries, such as India and others, the European continent must be otherwise organised, i.e. economically and politically competitive. Because we want the location Europe and, of course, in particular – I am now saying as an Austrian – to be assured of the location Austria. And if Austria's location is insured, that means that the employment, growth, our health and social system, the pensions are also insured. There is a distribution system in the European Union where priorities are set. And the priorities are at the moment in the area of infrastructure and, of course, also in the field of rural areas. And there you have to see how the money is then handled there, that this is not only done according to the casting pot principle. This is a very controversial area. Other priorities are employment, growth – this is increasingly at the centre – youth employment, research, innovation and education. So, and now we're trying to control that. Moreover, this control also has the purpose of achieving a more balanced development of the regions in Europe. Why is that supposed to be so? – Look, especially those parties that are always very critical of migration flows, where irregular migration flows occur, should know: If people see a sense of living, working, staying there in the European peripheries, then there will be no such migration pressure, which no one wants, if, so to speak, it leads to a pressure on the European labour markets to an overwhelming extent. That's so simple. You then have to weigh everything, and then you also depend on what contributions you pay, what happens with how this is controlled – and what flows back. Austria is one of the richest countries, one of the most successful countries, and is also an optimal source of funding in Brussels. That is why we are now entering the discussion. And I have to say that the Commission's contribution should not have stood in that Austria does not receive its discount. We have an Austrian Commissioner, and I wonder what the Austrian Commissioner actually did in the European Commission, as it was about whether this request was raised or not. [[I should like to say a few words on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.]] And now in retrospect to say that the army is supposed to wipe out the Federal Chancellor, that's a bit too easy. You already have to look at the whole story. Another thing if we're already on the numbers: Since 1995, we have received a total of €26.6 billion in grants for Austria. This was used very specifically in Austria, including regional specifics. And it is because we are in the euro area, at least 500 000, if not more, jobs in the export sector. According to Wifo, 0.9 percent of Austria's GDP growth is attributable to Austria's membership. There are back-flows used for regional development, for agriculture, but also for the employment of workers, for the promotion of bio- and mining workers and so on. To that end, we should confess that this is important. You have to calculate all of this in this balance. And since, I believe, it is still an extremely high profit for us, that we are members of the euro area, that we have a common currency that is competitive with the dollar and with other currencies, and that we are in the European Union and benefit from the compensation of the regions, including within Austria. As a result, Austria is even richer, even more competitive and has even more secure social and health systems – and all the achievements we want to keep. To conclude, I would like to say: I have always been very skeptical about this transfer of sovereignty and decision-making skills to Brussels. I remain skeptical, because, I say, we want to ensure that the Austrian model remains secure at this high, yes highest level. And that's our job here in the National Council.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e6349	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Schools. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e6370	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Federal Chancellor! Mr State Secretary! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Europe is a success story for all of us, including those who like to criticize it. We enjoy every day that we live in a peaceful environment, that democracy and freedom in Europe are an objective of common political efforts. Since the founding of the European Union – which was still different at the time – the common administration of agricultural policy has been a central intention for all Member States. This is a big difference to many other areas that we have to decide here, and that is why the budget for agriculture of all the countries in Europe will be decided. That is why our Federal Chancellor is now the negotiator of the agricultural budget in Europe for all of us. Mr Bundeskanzler, I am very grateful to you for the clear commitment you have just expressed, because it is indeed true that in Austria, with our previous agricultural policy, we are exemplary for Europe in the effect of people. What we all enjoy – a country with a high recovery value, a production with a high quality, food that withstands every control, food in a quality that corresponds to our culture – we have created this together. We have created this on the basis of European regulations, sometimes also restrictions and restrictions. The area of rural development has been renewed. Commissioner Fischler has enforced this idea in Europe, because agriculture is not only cheap market and competitive production, as many would like to see, agriculture is quality and vitality in rural areas. This Austrian position is exemplaryly developed. Today, we are top-ranking in this area when it comes to maintaining less favoured areas, developing environmental programmes, supporting organic farmers when it comes to promoting nature conservation, financing educational measures and, most importantly, supporting farmers' investments, because the risk to agriculture in Europe is greater than ever before and without public support can hardly be accounted for. Young people in Austria have so far seen a perspective in agriculture, and now it is about securing these prospects in the negotiations for European budgets. The €4 billion was available in the last period. Our Federal Government, the Federal Chancellor, has agreed to negotiate €3.8 billion to allow the programmes to continue. Mr Bundeskanzler, this is very important for us, and it is crucial for the regions that you now negotiate hard – and I am glad that you have agreed on a hard negotiating line. It is important that you succeed in these negotiations. And it is not so much about whether net payers or not net payers, it is about the effect that what we can develop and offer for people is good and positive for Austria. And the effects are there: Our soils are healthy, our humus household is fine. If you fly out of Austria by plane and look down, then you will see that the Austrian state border is recognizable because the fields are now green with us; they are green again, for the fertility of the soils. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr Pirklhuber]] In other countries, you will see white black earth, and you will even see the effect of the environmental programme in Austria from the aircraft. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: a lot of black earth!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Gaßner.]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is almost incredible what Austrian farmers are doing. The burden that the Federal Chancellor now has on his shoulders will probably not scare him because he is in fact always standing for Austria and has to stand for Austria. Now it's about: You do not negotiate for any envy, you negotiate for Austria, for all Austrians, for farmers as well as for our consumers, for tourists, for all those who live in tourism from our landscape, for all who simply want to enjoy good food at home, are proud of Austrian quality. They negotiate that with our agriculture we create a basis for a food export economy, which becomes better and more successful from year to year and is ultimately part of Austrian prosperity and progress. Mr Bundeskanzler, during these negotiations we will be working with you, with you, and I wish you all the best in your and in our sense.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e6438	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Hübner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e6460	Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Mr Vorsprechner Schultes! Just what you described at the beginning of your statement, the Agricultural Budget, is just the best example of the failure of the central – please, what do you want? [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] [[Call the SPÖ:Are you on Safari?]] [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Ing. Westenthaler.]] Mr. colleague, would you like to have a fashion discussion or discuss the EU budget? Let's have a fashion discussion afterwards! But as far as the agricultural budget is concerned, you will even agree with me, as you can take a short look at it. This is an example of the failure of central EU administration. There is no worse result than the last 30 years of centralisation of the EU budget. There is nothing more bureaucratic, there is nothing more real than anything else, and there is nothing more dangerous for the Austrian peasantry than this out-of-hand gift of the administration of our agricultural policy. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany has clearly spoken true. He said that the second pillar of the agricultural policy, namely the promotion of the less favoured areas of the Alps and so on, is where we stand alone. – That is true, we are almost alone, and this is also the great danger, because there is consensus for the promotion, because all countries need the grant to their agricultural products, but only a small part – including Austria – requires the promotion of the less favoured regions. The development we are already seeing is the elimination of agricultural production, the migration of the peasantry from the disadvantaged regions, from the forest district, from the Alpine region, to the advanced regions – these are essentially France, partly Holland, northern Germany, parts of the Po-level; these are the areas where production is being made. That is to say, a central administration of the agricultural budget, as we do, is to the eminent disadvantage of Austria – not only its peasantry, but the whole country – because the conservation of the agricultural landscape – I believe, Mr Cap – is a concern that we should all share. That is why it is also amazing what I am hearing today about the demand for more EU budget. Although I understand this from the Greens, we know it anyway, but it seems to me, like Robert Menasse, that national feelings or clinging to the national state are pathological. Menasse has said that the nation state even has criminal traits in its structure and in its recklessness. If you assume that – I give you the right – you should take everything away from these pathological associations, the nation state, and lead everything to the EU; there are certainly unpathological people who do everything best. But if you don't see it that way – and I assume that at least the Austrian Federal Government does not see it as such that the ÖVPlers who have reported themselves don't see it that way – then you have to think about it, in order to use the words of my colleague Ikrath, in a matter of fact and in a payment-oriented way. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Ikrath.]] Your bill, colleague Ikrath, means yes – at least for me – a statement why the First Bank of Osterreichische Sparkassen AG has used €2 billion of support from the so-called bank rescue package. [[New call for tender of the Abg. May. Ikrath.]] – That is not wrong, unfortunately. That explains a little bit if you calculate that way, because there is only a realistic bill. We pay about three units there and get two units out of there – that is, 2.7 billion €; 1.7 or 1.8 billion we will get out. So we pay three units, two we get out. Now you can say, of course, how I hear this in between: To get out not two units, but four units, we have to pay six units. - That's a real bill. That's where I pay an invoice more, but then it's actually right. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] To all the other speculations, such as that of Mr Ikrath, that the potential benefits of an economic union, a free trade area – the potential benefits you consider with 0.4 percent of GDP, Mr Cap, even with 0.9 percent of GDP – are now compared to the contribution and says: Well, I'm going to have 12 billion benefits, because we could actually pay 12 billion, and we're paying only 700 million – it's actually almost 1 billion! – then, of course, one comes to things that will, at least spiritually, make it necessary – let us say so – for Austria’s budget support package. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Ikrath]] Now we look at this realistically: What do we get for it? – We do not receive support for our payments – gross or net – from poor children, we do not receive an education programme for the slums of Lisbon, but we are essentially receiving subsidies bureaucracy and self-government. In the case of the large chunks, the agricultural budget has failed completely – a matter that is absolutely renationalized, where there is no other way for the Austrian peasantry than an administration in our interest, with our abilities and based on our needs. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We are getting the huge distribution carousel of the Cohesion and Structural Funds, which has led to enormous damage in Europe. [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign.]] - I'm almost finished. – These misdevelopments go back to these funds to a large part, and therefore – in order to use the beautiful word again – we need a veto, but not as a ball or as a coke, but as a clear statement: [[Interlocutory call to the ÖVP]] There must be no extension of this budget; if not, we do not agree. [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign again]] And that's the message of the veto.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e6582	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Pirklhuber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e6604	Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Chancellor! Mr State Secretary! Mr Hübner has spoken of materiality and figures. Mr Hübner, your nationalist turnaround, which you are calling for to renationalise the common agricultural policy, is a shot in both knees. You will get on your knees when you try to reform European policy in this way. In view of a globalised economy – and also the agricultural policy is global – it also needs European answers, which is not a question at all. It is really sad, Mr. Klubobmann Bucher, that today, when you mentioned numbers, you have called completely wrong numbers. It's pure bad populism. They are talking about the fact that assistants in the European sector get €8,000 net. That's wrong; they get in grade 1 1 680 € gross and 3 900 € in level 8. [[Abg. Bucher: (to point out a document) The First German Television!]] So if you call numbers, call them correct! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We also need to say clearly: The real challenge is to compare what we actually bring in net – and that is, Mr Rossmann clearly said that, on average, between €350 and €550 million a year – and what we are stunned in our own country, in the area of banks, in the area of municipal credit, in the area of Hypo Alpe-Adria: Billions! If we take these billions and counter them, then we will be five or six years old and will be able to make our EU payments. And what do they do?, that is what the citizens rightly ask. That's what I'm telling you: They're bringing a lot. You can read it alone on the current Austrian labour market policy figures if You see a Europe comparison. Austria is certainly better placed in this area because we have benefited from European networking, especially through the enlargement of the Union. This does not mean that we do not need reform, that we do not need action, but we clearly have a location advantage, and this is clear from every citizen, every citizen who works or works in a company that is so global or Central European, as is normal for the medium-sized economy in Austria today. This should be said quite openly and clearly, Federal Chancellor, and not populistly about how we can push past the need to see the need for a more community that we can only solve the European problems together – whether this is the social, the financial, or the major ecological crises that we face. You have mentioned one thing today, Mr Bundeskanzler, which I can only welcome: They addressed the Austrian mountain farmers and also the organic farmers and rightly said that this was the future strategy in the 21st century. Century – that's how I understood you, and that's where I applauded because that's right. We need a massive and radical reform of the agricultural policy, and this is what the colleagues of the EIA refuse to do. I understand the coalition partner, I don't understand you from the SPÖ. What are you doing now? I hope that a reform, a radical reform of agricultural policy at European level. This means more money in rural development, a hundred billion in the period 2014 to 2020, because in this second pillar the whole future investment lies because in this second pillar rural development is affected, because in this second pillar all the social and environmental projects of the future of Europe must be handled, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] One aspect that we cannot leave to the left is European taxes. If we want to move on in Europe – and we have a really milky share of 1 percent of the total budget – then we simply have to put the new instruments such as the financial transaction tax or a kerosene tax in the service of the interests of a Union economic and social development process. This process means that we must focus on youth unemployment. If we look at all of Europe, then we see that youth unemployment is the major challenge, also politically, because ultimately it is: Only if young people have a perspective, both in education and in the labour market, will they support the idea of Europe for the future. The Union must become social, it needs to get financial speculation under control, it must focus on education, development, innovation and research. If you wish to do so seriously, Mr Bundeskanzler, it will be necessary to speak out offensively for these instruments as well as not to continue in this net payer club and to make a defensive or no European policy at all. That's the challenge.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e6657	Next speaker: Mr Huber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e6679	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr State Secretary! Mr Pirklhuber! If you're putting our clubman in here, that he's bringing wrong numbers, I have to tell you one thing: ==References====External links== July 2012 reports that in Brussels a privileged secretary deserves €8 000 in the month. [[Abg. Bookbooker: Net!]] And, please, one thing is clear: The ARD is certainly not BZÖ-near. [[Call the Greens.]] Now to the budget: Federal Chancellor! If we transfer less money for agricultural giants to Brussels, we also have more scope for our small-structured agriculture. No one sees why Raiffeisen needs 3 million EU funding in the year. [[call to the FPÖ.]] That's where we can really save. Mr. Federal Chancellor, you can't cure a disease by hiding the fever thermometer; but this federal government has been hiding the fever thermometer for four years. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] Let us look at our European foreign policy in South Tyrol! Last week in the Committee, I drew attention to the fact that South Tyrol is no longer able to carry out its tasks, because Rome undermines all autonomy, sets its feet on self-government, and allows it to bled twice financially. The People's Party Minister's reply was quite simple: It is all right, Mr President, that we should not scandalize this; I shall call Mr Durnwalder every six weeks anyway. Mr Bundeskanzler, you must speak a word of power right away! In October of this year, the Italian Government in Parliament, in the Chamber, submitted a request that the Constitution be amended and that the abolition of all autonomy be decided upon. Only by a veto of the Lega Nord has this been aborted. Federal Chancellor! We have to act there immediately. I have just asked that the South Tyrol Committee be immediately called upon to advise immediately on why this Federal Government is unable to bring an action before the European Court of Justice in the light of these violations, whether it be the Milan Agreement or the step of autonomy. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] This Federal Government – including you, Federal Chancellor – has been making a bird-strout policy on this issue for months. Quit them, because, Mr Bundeskanzler, Rome is cut short so massively, South Tyrol is no longer able to carry out its public tasks! [[Call the ÖVP: Such a fool!]] 850 million € are in Rome, the South Tyrol, with an annual budget of 5 billion €! [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] The autonomy statute, which came into force in 1972, which ended the decades-long dispute, for decades bloodshed, has now been clearly broken three times. It was broken both by financial law, by social law and by tax law with arguments of a national Italian case. The South Tyrol MPs, representatives of the People's Party, are already demanding a free state of South Tyrol because the Austrian Federal Government is asleep. Mr Bundeskanzler, please don't wake up spirits who have been sleeping for decades, spirits who bring blood to our core Europe! If Austria does not act there, then massives happen, and no one can answer that. Only the radiance of this People's Party in South Tyrol has failed. The South Tyrol People's Party is widened by one scandal in the other and is no longer capable of action. Foreign Minister Spindelegger said in committee: As soon as South Tyrol officially approaches me, I'll do something. – Already on Saturday, Volkspartei-Obmann Theiner wrote in a broadcast: We must now call on Vienna to act, because I have no hope, there is no chance that this Monti government will change its course. – Mr Bundeskanzler! If you don't do anything here, if we shut down reality, we'll wake up really sleeping dogs bringing blood to Europe. One thing you have to keep in mind: The People's Party-Obmann Spindelegger says he spoke to Monti and learned that this was just a mistake. – Yes, is it an “irritum” when an Italian government negates a constitutional court ruling?- Oh, my God! Let's act together – it's high time, Federal Chancellor. Finally stop hiding the fever thermometer, but let's treat the diseases where it's necessary!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e6758	Next speaker: Mr Markowitz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e6779	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! The budgetary negotiations once again show how large the gap between the economically rich and the economically poor countries is. Mr Bundeskanzler, I already see that you are saying that there is a great gap, and we should therefore not veto on our part if we negotiate at EU level. We have just learned from Mr Ikrath's speech that the more we pay into the EU, the more we get back. Perhaps we should consider the following: Send the Federal Chancellor to Brussels with the order to deposit there: Please, Austria must pay more, because the more we pay, the more we get back! – You don’t believe that in the population, even if you give a nice weather talk here – because the Austrians have enough to pay in this country. You have to put yourself here at the speaker's desk and finally give the Austrians pure wine! [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] The people here in Austria can no longer understand what you are doing. [[Abg. Head: Don't tell us what we have to do!]] Please? [[Abg. Head: Do what you believe, but don't tell us what we have to do!]] Look, Mr Klubobmann's head, please turn the camera on this gentleman, Mr Klubobmann's head: I am perfectly right in giving you, but you must not forget one thing, namely that we can speak here in the House of Commons, so to speak. [[Abg. Head: You will still have to learn what democracy is in this House!]] And if we have a different opinion than you, I would ask you to take note of that. [[Abg. Head: You too! You too!]] We're already acting on it. I also assume that we can work together constructively in the future. But if Mr Ikrath says that the more Austria pays into the EU, the more we get back, then no one will believe it at the end of the day. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grosz.]] [[Call: But you're not here for long.]] – Mr Grosz, what did you say? - Good. [[Intrusions of the Abg. May. Widmann.]] In all cases, we must not forget one thing: The EU stands on a foundation that is built up in such a way that, if a country does not work, the other country comes in. I am convinced that this procedure will certainly not work in the long run. It can't be that if a wall on one side is broken, you take something out of the other side and stop the holes. This will not work in the long run. Mr. Federal Chancellor, I'm really looking for you: If you are negotiating at EU level – you have just said how proud you are in Austria, how proud you are that you are going to the EU negotiations with a strong Austria – then please come back at the end of the day as a representative of a strong Austria, so that we can be proud to have created such a good foundation in Austria. I would also ask you to try to ensure that we can transfer this strength that Austria has acquired, perhaps to these countries the individual citizens of our country. As a good example, we can move forward so that the other countries are not as bad as they are, so that Greece has a chance. One would have to apologize to the Greeks, because, as it was correctly addressed earlier, no cent ever came to the Greeks from all the transferred funds. You from the government parties are all bank rescuers! We must therefore really consider how to deal with the population, with Europe and with the Austrians, the citizens of that country in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e6893	No one is reporting on this. I therefore conclude the debate. [[12:05:14]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e6914	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e7098	It is proposed that the debate on points 2 and 3, 5 to 7 and 9 to 18 of the agenda should be summarized. There are no objections to this proposal. We can therefore proceed in this way. Let's go into the agenda. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e7125	With a view to re-establishing a club, four political groups presented a proposal for the redistribution of the speaking time within a 'Vienna hour', namely for several debates: SPÖ and ÖVP each 14, FPÖ 12,5, Green 11, BZÖ 9,5 and STRONACH 8 minutes per “Vienna hour”. A day block period of 8 “Vienna hours” has been agreed between the members of the presidential conference. In accordance with the provisional key set out above, the following day-block speaking times arise: SPÖ and ÖVP per 112 minutes, FPÖ 100, Green 88, BZÖ 76 minutes and STRONACH 64 minutes. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: What's the name of this club?]] In accordance with § 57 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure to limit the speaking time of the honourable Member to 10 minutes per debate. We shall now proceed to the vote on the speaking time just presented. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this proposal to give a sign in this regard. – That is unanimously apologies? – This is accepted with the necessary two-thirds majority. [[Abg. Scheibner: No, by a majority!]] [[Call: It's one less! – At the SPÖ, a person is not quite standing up]] [[12:07:04]] 1. Point Health Committee report on the Government template (1936, e.g._Other Organiser Bundesgesetz, which adopts a Health Telecommunications Act 2012 and amends the General Social Insurance Act, the Commercial Social Insurance Act, the Agricultural Social Insurance Act, the Civilian Health and Accident Insurance Act, the Genetics Act and the Criminal Code (ELGA-G) (1979 d.B.)
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e7187	We're coming to the 1st. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. The debate opens up to the honourable Member Dr Belakovich-Jenewein. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e7214	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, The Electronic Health Act – a mandatory obligation from next year for all Austrians. In the last Committee on Health, Mr. Federal Minister, you said that if you get out of ELGA, there is no disadvantage. Mr Federal Minister, you have, however, remained guilty of the statement on the question: What is the advantage of deciding to ELGA? It is relatively difficult for people in Austria to get out of ELGA at all. There are nine ombudsmen across Austria, to which you have to march, where you can then very laboriously unsubscribe from it. However, the data will still be saved. Even according to the agreed version, they are stored in spite of everything, because you have left the back door open by saying that they will not be stored in ELGA, but just where they have to be stored anyway. In reality, then, this is a pure eye-catching, including this amendment that you have presented to us here. It is quite incomprehensible, Mr Federal Minister, that there is a system that does not at all allow people to really deal properly with the question of whether they want to join this system or not. A second possibility in addition to these nine ombudsmen is, for example, the citizen card for about 1 percent of all Austrians. Mr Federal Minister, I think it is particularly difficult for patients who may want to get a second opinion because they are not quite sure whether what a doctor told them is really right. This has been going on and going on to this day, but that is now a little more complicated: There has to be an ombudsman, one of whom is per federal state, driving – it may be quite easy in Vienna, in the larger federal states it will be relatively complicated – and this is exactly what he has to do, then he can go to the next doctor and get the second opinion, and then he may want to go back in. So this is a huge effort which I do not think is at all in favour of. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It is also true that a similar system should have entered into force in Holland. There, however, the Senate, i.e. the House of Lords in Parliament, has reversed this draft – precisely because of this so-called opt-out rule, which we have. That means that all people are automatically inside unless they report. I think this is really worrying, because if it is such a great progress as you are trying to explain it here – and you have also said that the patients are all being strengthened now; I do not know what they need to be strengthened for, I do not know whether the patients feel so weak right now, but should be – if this is such a great advantage, then it will not be a problem for people to volunteer anyway. That's quite clear. However, I would like to add one aspect, Mr Federal Minister – who, above all, has missed me in the hearing – that is the fact that the European Commission is now about to adopt an EU Data Protection Regulation. Just this EU data protection regulation would mean that of course our national data protection law would be immediately invalid, we would have to accept it immediately. And of course this would also mean that health data can then be available immediately and in real time throughout Europe. Thus, for example, the masseur in England would be entitled to consult the health data of the Austrians legally. – While England may not now be a particularly good example, as as far as England is concerned, we do not know whether the 2014 will be with the EU at all. They have politicians who are a little more committed to their own people than you, Federal Minister. Our politicians are more likely to be in Brussels. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But then we stick to this example and use it instead of England Holland. Then the masseur, the pedier from Holland, can see all the health data. You didn't mention that at all. How are you going to deal with it? Is there any initiative on your part, Mr Federal Minister, that this regulation will not come in this way, as it is currently planned? . I have not heard from you, nor have I heard from colleagues from the government parties at all. This is simply taken note of. The Austrians are simply being led around the nose. We introduce ELGA with 1. ==References== January 2014, i.e. exactly one year later, all health data are networked and retrieved on all European networks. And that's pure abuse! If you still think about who in the EU was trying to get such a regulation, then you will notice that the whole of England is going out, because in England these life-science companies, which are a kind of market research company, are already taking the lead in the pursuits that this directive is coming. It is precisely these companies, these market research companies, who are very, very interested in European health data. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr Federal Minister and you, ladies and gentlemen, who are giving your approval to this directive today, you are responsible for the fact that the Austrians become glass patients, glass people throughout Europe.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e7272	Mr Magistrate. — (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the honourable Member for his excellent report. Maier speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e7296	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! My predecessor claimed in her statement that health data can be retrieved in real time in the planned General Data Protection Regulation. I'm correcting: That's wrong. The General Data Protection Regulation, currently contained in the draft, provides that health data can be processed for health purposes, i.e. also in the Member States for an electronic health act. – Mr Belakovich’s remarks are basically wrong.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e7326	Mrs Oberhauser spoke. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e7348	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It is not new, Mr Maier, that claims from the FPÖ are put into space, which simply do not vote. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] - Well, that's proven several times. So worse than you here now, you can't do it any more anyway. I would like to inform you, as I did in the Committee, of a press release of the ARGE data, namely, of the 18th anniversary. March 2005, in connection with the introduction of the e-card: “e-card brings big brother system for doctors and patients” [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: Can you say something yourself? Or don't you know what to say?]] “For Hans Sager,, the plans of Peering Point GmbH are a sharp limitation of the information freedom of doctors and patients.” The planned model reminds him of North Korea. ” They are “glass doctors and patients.” This is in fact exactly the same as what you have given us today in the threat form for the best: “a possible data abuse is open to door and door”, “criminal legitimate desires” will occur, “information monopoly”, and “at the expense of the insured one establishes an expensive system whose added value is questionable.” I think we all know that the model of the e-card is a success model, no one in Austria can think of the e-card anymore. I can't remember any data abuse that happened with the e-card. [[Abg. Dr. Strutz: There's nothing up there!]] - Yes, thank God! You always want something on it. There is also nothing above on ELGA, there is no data stored in ELGA. [[Abg. New builder: Of course there is an abuse!]] – The next nonsense you tell us: ELGA stores the data, with ELGA there will be a way to access the data decentralized. – Your data, Mrs. Belakovich-Jenewein, are already stored and will remain in the administration of the hospital, and wherever it is, now. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] That is, it is panic from the FPÖ – panic, which I do not understand in this form. [[Abg. Dr. Karlsböck: (a document in height) The Social Democratic Chamber President!]] When we look at how long we've been talking about the question of ELGA, that's quite a good thing. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: I am now glad that a really very uninformed group will now be informed! I just wanted to say that once!]] Thank you, Mr Jarolim. Since 2004, we have been discussing ELGA, and since 2004 the question is: Are we even able to introduce ELGA? There was much discussion about it, I say, three health ministers needed to implement ELGA. Minister Stöger has now succeeded with eerie toughness and with so many patient conversations with all stakeholders in the system. There were countless events, negotiating rounds together with the doctor's chamber, there were countless hearings, namely two long, big hearings on the questions: What are the problems with ELGA? How is ELGA handled? How is that done? – That means a lot of conversations have been held. [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: (Keeping the above-mentioned document in height) Which group does the colleague belong to? Is that your group's?]] The doctor's chamber still doesn't feel enough informed. However, Mrs Belakovich, it is so that we today adopt a framework law for ELGA. [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: Is that from your group?]] I understand the concerns of the doctors that they have in question: how is it “handleable”?, problems, fears and concerns. This is something we have always said about social democracy: It must be practical. It can't be that we establish a system that extends the times that shorten time in the patient. We now have time until 2016 to develop the system in such a way that it is user-friendly, in such a way that it benefits doctors. And exactly these things are being done now. That is to say, we decide here to continue working on the principle and the possibility for the ARGE ELGA, to clarify exactly the problems that the doctor's chamber now faces, because it is not in the sense of patients, and not in the sense of the doctors, to establish a system that damages patients and doctors, but, quite the contrary, that improves the care and also facilitates the administration of the system for patients and doctors.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e7489	Next speaker: Mr Oellinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e7512	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! ELGA is a difficult thing. That is why I say at the outset: What we agree with is that the current state of management of records, health data in the health field is not satisfactory and therefore urgently needs to be changed. That is why we will also agree with those provisions, especially in the Telematics Act, in which data protection is better protected than it is currently available. That's an important point. This also distinguishes our criticism from that of the liberals in which it is pretended that the current state would be a good one. - No, he's not! If important, sensitive health data can be sent by fax and can also reach incorrect addresses, for example, because the number has been incorrectly stored, then this is not a good condition – and that is why we urgently need better regulations. But – and this is the point – ELGA itself, ladies and gentlemen, that is the jesephinist principle implemented in the field of health acts: Health records for the people, but not for the people. There is a better way to go, ladies and gentlemen, and this has marked us in Denmark. There, an electronic health administration has been built on the voluntary principle. It is likely that the Minister of Health and many Members of this House will have the neck hair: How can you do such a thing?- Oh, my God! That's not responsible! I don't think everyone's going along with it! Denmark has shown that it is successful to build the system on a voluntary basis and, secondly, to make it possible to focus, of course, on customer and insurance benefits. In Denmark, everyone – in fact everyone – is present in a voluntary system. And why? – I also explain this to you: Because from the beginning the system had a concrete benefit for the insured. Where is the benefit of ELGA in relation to the vaccination? – Yes, he will come, sometime! It will also be saved. – This would be a real benefit for many insured persons and their children, for example, whose vaccination data must be managed. Next point: Mother-child pass – currently not intended for ELGA. Yeah, he might come sometime. Third point: In Denmark, it is possible to make the appointment with the doctor via the electronic health management, and the waiting list of the doctor can be found in the waiting list! –, can look into the waiting list for operations in hospitals, if you have to be operated, you can also see whether this hospital, this hospital in the ranking has good values, whether it often operates and so on. This is a concrete benefit for the insured, which should be the focus – and not a relatively undefined interest of health management in as many data as possible! Yes, I know that there are not many data for storage at the moment on ELGA, but there is a regulatory authority that allows the Federal Minister – and therefore we have a problem in principle – to have successive further data fed in. In the hearing, we have heard that there are not only concerns about this regulation authorisation, but also – and I think this is at least as important – in relation to the fact that a system that is not well served – and a good operation at ELGA is not yet recognized – as well as with For example, the British electronic health act system, which is also in danger of crashing. In the UK, totals were spent to develop the electronic health acts, and after spending €20 billion, the project was stopped. Now I know that we in Austria are far from these 20 billion. But, Federal Minister, the official information – your or those in the respective government template – which is used for the system, for the development of the system, for maintenance, for the ongoing maintenance of the system, are anything but trust-building or realistic. That is not realistic! We must expect that this system, which is intended to be extended in a large way, will cost much more. We have to expect it, above all, because it has not been very flawed by the principle. If it were to be developed as the Danish system bottom-up, i.e. from below, and not as a top-down system, then the chance would probably be greater that we could achieve real customer or patient benefits at the cost, or, more importantly, that the measures and services that remain for the insured, for the patients in this system – from the beginning and not as the promises of the Federal Minister, that sometime, in some years, will come something like the vaccination that was promised to us but which is not contained in ELGA. Summary: The costs are unrealistic, the regulatory powers allow you to control too much without parliamentary or democratic control. The opt-out option is a threat, including for insured persons who then carry the risk of liability under certain conditions. In addition, there are still unclear rules for use in the relevant template. That is why there will also be a different voting behaviour from our side. The Green Group will essentially not agree to this request. However, Mr Greenewald sees some progress in this and will then explain to you why he agrees to this proposal. But essentially seems to me, my dear. Ladies and gentlemen: You should think about it again! They should have taken a little more time for all of us in the development of ELGA. The hearing we have now had in the committee was at the end of this process. This hearing for parliamentarians should have been a hearing for the population. Citizens need to understand, they need to be able to understand what ELGA is doing in terms of opportunities, but also in terms of risks to them. I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I would have liked to save myself from reading this request because I consider this to be relatively pointless in the case of these applications, in which there are numerous numbers and numbers, which no one of you can understand in the near future, but it is an important request, and I ask for your consent. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] ..
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e7666	The amendment which has just been tabled is currently under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e7773	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Rasinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e7794	Mr President. Mr. Minister! High house! ELGA is an opportunity, but also a risk. We've been negotiating for 18 months. That's exactly the double of a pregnancy. I wonder who's here now. I confess that I then said yes. I also say yes now, for various reasons. The first draft was completely unacceptable. It was about like having a car with five wheels and without a brake. There were absurd provisions in it, such as that if a doctor does not use ELGA, he should be punished with up to €10,000. This is the threefold sum of how an alcooler is severely punished. The fact that doctors then excited and believed that we were politically against the wall was of course clear. Also the e-medication was initially absolutely impossible. Therefore, the independent expert also recommended that this be re-established. Swamm over it! We've been negotiating for a long time, and we've come out a lot better. Chance means what's present now. You can't shut up with that! Then: If someone comes to the treatment today from Vorarlberg to Vienna, of course ELGA is an information rail, since, as I suppose, not everyone who takes a walk in Vienna carries his findings. I also assume that someone who has an emergency does not carry all of his findings with him. There are also enough people with poor articulation ability. There are people who do not control the German language even after 20 years, but there are also people who have Alzheimer's-Demenz et cetera, who are simply overwhelmed with the system and no longer come along. The e-medication also has a meaning when you visit different doctors, because you are often prescribed similar medications because one doctor knows nothing about the other and it is often so that the patient often does not know himself in the back and front of each so-called magnitude. There are also risks in ELGA, which is fairly clear. There's nothing to do with constantly spreading sand into people's eyes. A risk factor is simply and simply data protection. ELGA is Austria's largest data protection project. You have to see that. Since Wikileaks, since data has been cracked in the Pentagon, you have to be very careful. If it is said that everything is safe in Austria, I say as a native Austrian: Well, at least that's questionable! But we installed a lot of brakes at ELGA. Above all: The patient can look out at every level very easily, he can open up the findings, get out of there, get in there, so basically he can say: I don't want to be there in this system, and the doctor too can say: I don't want to be in this system! Of course, the bureaucracy that comes to the doctors is also to be considered. The doctors are afraid that they will only sit in front of the computer, any data download and no longer have time to talk to the patients, but only to the computer cabinet. That's serious to take, you can't say, just as Mrs. Wehsely does: The doctors are always making trouble, now we have to go over it! – This is perhaps the style that is common in the municipality of Vienna or elsewhere, but we believe from the ÖVP that, if a doctor or users are concerned, they must at least listen to it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The “driving” is a word that is certainly not at home in my vocabulary, but you have to say that the doctors do not start with the Kienspan, but ELGA is an additional tool, no more. Oillinger has said it rightly, this system has failed in many countries. It has been reintroduced in Germany, a nightmare in England, also in the Czech Republic and the Netherlands. I could give you a long list of examples. It was, of course, a mistake of yours, Mr Minister, that you said without If and But: That's a super project that's coming! We think it brings opportunities, but it also poses a risk. In any case: We want to do it together with the users. We don't want to do it the way the AKIM project has been done in the AKH with the Vienna municipality for ten years; it doesn't work in the back and in the front. The new “impulse.kis” works three times as slowly. I mean, you have to take your nose and see: You have to hand over to the doctors and the sisters tools they can work with. This too is employee care! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But I'll stay with you, and I'll be there too. ELGA is, as it now exists – a modified Swiss project with voluntaryity et cetera – an international project that offers opportunities to improve treatment in Austria, but which is already at a very high level.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e7871	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Spadiut. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e7892	Mr President. Minister! High house! In order to achieve cost reduction and savings in the health system, it is necessary, among other things, to avoid double findings and contraindications. However, the fact that one wants to achieve this with the poorly thought-out and very expensive system of “electronic health acts” is widespread rejection. ELGA is not sufficiently well thought out for health policy or data protection. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The fact that the ELGA system for integrated health care is unsuitable and obviously pursues other objectives is recognizable from the arbitrary storage periods and automated deletion obligations. What reason does the non-acceptable opt-out rule have? All data of the patient is automatically stored, and the patient must then request deletion by written opposition or by e-card. Why is one so vehement against the opt-in rule where the doctor should ask the patient if he wants the storage or not? This would be fair and easy to implement. It is a suspicion that the Minister in opt-in regulation is probably afraid that most of the patients would not participate and that ELGA would appear as a flop right from the start. The fact that the findings come into the database despite opt-out in turn raises the suspicion that the data will be deleted on patient request, but will continue to be used for scientific purposes and market research. However, a complete collection of the health data is not given both at opt-out and opt-in, which makes ELGA toothless. I am incomprehensible that our proposal to store the data on the e-card has not been accepted. The advantages of storage are quite clear: On the one hand, costs are much lower than ELGA. You only need a writing and reading device for every doctor. An Austrian network is not necessary. The annual cost of €60 million would not be charged. By securing the e-card with a pin code, only the data that is allowed by the patient is available. Each patient is therefore responsible for his own data protection and for his or her data. Due to the given data protection you can then mandatoryly prescribe a storage on the e-card, which would increase efficiency. The argument that you still need to store the data centrally is incorrect. No data has been stored centrally for more than 2000 years. It would also be a loss of the e-card no leg break, you would just have to retrieve the data as originally. If you choose opt-out, the data are not available either. If the data is stored on the e-card, of course, this data is not available for scientific purposes, but it is not supposed to be wanted anyway. The only reason for rejecting this storage can, in my view, only be the low cost and easy handling. But it is typical of our health system: It must all be inflated and expensive as possible. ELGA is a system that makes the patient glass but does not use it in any way. That is why we will not vote in favour of ELGA.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e7946	Mr Stöger is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e7968	Mr President. High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen as seers; and Watch the TV screens! It is very important today that we focus in health policy on those needs and interests that serve the people, the patients. The electronic health record represents a very large milestone for patients. Health care partners – federal government, social insurance companies, countries – have agreed to strengthen health information and thus provide patient-oriented information. We are not only doing that, but we have also made sure at the government clause on Friday that the Austrian health system is modernised and developed further. We will reintroduce health care for self-employed people and we will also ensure that dental health increases and that the local health phone can offer modern services for the insured in their dental ambulances. But now to ELGA, my dear friends Ladies and gentlemen! – Doctors can now read all relevant health data on the Internet or in the ELGA. It's over, something that's been going on up to now and that a patient/a pa-tentin has had to go to the doctor with a thick package of findings and the doctor has not been able to read all of this. Or – imagine that! –: A patient was in the hospital. The result of the dismissal has so far been sent only to the doctor who has been given as a family doctor. Now the patient wants to consult his doctor, but just the day he's sick, his doctor has a day off. He has to go to the office, but this doctor is not informed. Or look at how patients who have been prescribed a medication by their family doctor are treated at the same time as a specialist or have prescribed a medicine for them. These doctors, who do all the good work, have no information what their colleagues have prescribed, and can therefore not advise patients as well as they can do in the future. We have noticed in the pilot projects that this is a better information, because so far there has been a targeted communication, but now every doctor – well aware: but only those doctors who trust patients – can access the electronic health data, access the stored health data. Your trusted doctor can access it, and the whole thing for 28 days – and we have taken a huge step in data protection. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! High house! I am concerned that we greatly improve data protection, and that is what we have done with this measure. If you pick up your credit card, your bank card, do you know who in the bank is accessing your data? – You don't know that, nor does my bank tell me. In healthcare, we will change this: Everyone can see – you will get a protocol if you want it – who has accessed their or their health data, and I think this greatly improves data protection. If there are people who do not comply with data protection, then we have laid down strict and judicial penalties for that. I can assure you that this is the largest data protection measure that this Republic has ever created. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, it is also about stopping multiple investigations, optimizing the process of medical care, and it is also about acting just patient-oriented. In this way, the Electronic Health Act is an essential step towards improving and strengthening quality in Austrian health care. I would also like to tell you what the difference to the English or Danish model is. It is very important to me to say that clearly. In the United Kingdom, a form of technology has been attempted for all hospitals. Everyone who has once introduced a computer system knows that this cannot work. What did we do? – We have said quite clearly that we want to leave the existing systems as they are, but we want to establish a network between the health data stored by the doctor, the hospital or the specialist. These also stay there, there will be no central storage. What we are doing is linking this data when a corresponding query comes from the doctor whom you, dear patient, dear patient, and whom you also allow. I am therefore proud that we can now implement this measure. One more thing: That was a long, intense discussion process. We have organised two hearings – one in the Health Committee – and in summer we have also invited many groups to participate. We have conducted a long discussion process, and many – especially the affected persons, pensioners' associations, the seniors' associations in Austria – have said clearly and clearly: Yes, we want these electronic health acts, and we have also pledged their support for them. – I thank everyone who did that. I am also very grateful to all doctors who have congratulated me in the last few days. They want the information! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] They want the information so that the quality of their medical care becomes even better than it is anyway. I would also like to thank Mrs. Dr. Rasinger and Mrs. Dr. Oberhauser, who have been very deeply involved in the discussion process. With his expertise on data protection, Mr Maier has also made a major contribution to the fact that what was an objective for me – namely to ensure the highest level of data protection – has actually been implemented by this legislative initiative. [[Abg. Dr. Karlsböck: Is that a farewell speech?]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to conclude by saying: It is not my job to rest, but it is my job to develop and carry on the health system. I therefore have the 50 in the Council of Ministers today. Introduced by law so that we can modernize the health system and make it patient-oriented. In this sense, I would also like to continue to work and thank all those who give this law in the interests of patients.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e8031	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Maier. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e8053	Mr President. Federal Minister! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! ELGA has been very much debated over the last five years, and I would also like to make this clear to the spectators: The doctors, the social insurance companies, the countries were involved. There have been a total of more than 40 appointments with the doctors who have repeatedly claimed – I mean quite specifically the representatives of the medical chambers – that they would not have been involved. You have announced a great protest for today. I took the media, Hohes Haus, that doctors were called to appear in white tickles here to explain their protest. - I don't see any doctors in white tickles. It was spoken of by 100 and more doctors. [[Abg. Dr. Karlsböck: But you only know that! That's a rumor!]] I therefore believe, Minister of State, that you are perfectly right: The doctors want ELGA, the doctors want a new legal basis for dealing with health data, because we currently have a problem in Austria in the field of the federal states, we have a problem with different systems and there is no patient sovereignty that there is no data security in the KIS systems and in the other systems at country level. [[Abg. Oillinger: Are you speaking as a data protector or for the SPÖ?]] What I would like to say very clearly here is: I still don't understand why the doctors are still fighting ELGA. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Oils.]] If you look at the history of health policy in recent years, you can see that the doctors were opposed to any reform because they only represented their own interests and not the interests of the patients. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein]] High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Even now, protest was again announced by the doctors, protesting the health reform that the government wants to implement with Federal Minister Stöger. I mean, the action the doctors are now proclaiming is not just overcrowded, it contradicts the professional ethos of the doctors. [[New call of the abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein.]] High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! With such crazy posters, the doctors want to appear all over Austria. [[the speaker holds a poster high]] I ask you from here to pull from this point. [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: You have the doctors...!]] You're back on these protests! They're insecure the people! There is a panic of doctors, and that is to be rejected with all determination. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein:... is Panikmache?]] High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! ELGA has a lot to do with data protection. I say it very clearly to you here: I was at the beginning of the debate against the Electronic Health Act, but in many rounds of negotiations and discussions we succeeded in providing data security measures that are above the standard of the Data Protection Act. [[Abg. Oils: This is not art!]] High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! § 14 lays down standards which are just above the Data Protection Act, because the use of health data, colleague Oillinger, is limited to § 9 paragraph 13 Data Protection Act. [[Abg. Oils: This is not art!]] However, we have a problem, namely the federal states. I would like to express it quite openly: We have different systems, we have nine different health care laws with different data protection standards. According to some hospital laws, for example, mass surveys can be carried out, there is no patient sovereignty, there is no way that patients can control who used their health data. High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! For the first time, we are being united with ELGA...... a uniform system of health data in Austria. [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: Now you don't know for yourself what we get!]] The federal states are finally invited to amend their health insurance laws in such a way that they at least comply with the Directive of the European Union.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e8206	Next speaker: Mr Klubobmann Ing. Lugar. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e8227	Mr President. High house! To ELGA: In principle, ELGA is a good thing. You have to think about what happens in Austria every day. There is a study that proves that there are more than one million interactions in Austria due to drugs that do not tolerate each other. That is, one doctor prescribes a drug, another doctor prescribes another medicine, but does not know that it has already been prescribed, or another that does not fit into the first, and there are interactions. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein.]] Now we know that interactions can sometimes also have enormous negative consequences. There are also some deaths due to interactions in Austria. That's exactly what would prevent ELGA. It would prevent this because both the pharmacist and the doctor and everyone involved know who gets what. And if something doesn't fit together, you could even implement a module that screams the alarm. [[Abg. Brosz: In the body – or where?]] That is, a doctor would prescribe a drug that creates interactions, perhaps even dangerous interactions, then this system could become active by itself. All of this is possible. [[Abg. Ollinger: That's interesting!]] Or when it comes to knowing the health story: If you go to the hospital because of a disease or because of an acute case, it is now often so that the doctor does not know the history. In other words, you have to have a hard time questioning the patient: What do you take medications, what do you have for treatments behind you?, and, and, and. [[Abg. Oils: That's the being!]] If the patient can't fully list this if he's a little older, the doctor doesn't know. That means it's finally time to have a system with which we have documented very closely: What is the medical history, which drugs are tolerated, which are not?, so that the pharmacist also knows what the person gets. [[Abg. Oillinger: The health story is not in the ELGA! You have no idea!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brosz.]] There are no double prescriptions either, because the pharmacist sees that, that has already been prescribed and, and, and. That means you would also see a tablet dependency better. [[Abg. Oils: You have no idea!]] In other words, there are quite a lot of possibilities, and ELGA is basically a positive thing. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein.]] And now we are right at the point where Mr Maier from the SPÖ is trying to operate medical bashing. Of course, the doctors have their concerns. Of course, as it is now present, it is unforgivable. You have to imagine this: In Austria, there is a situation where doctors get €13, €14 for a patient and get new tasks over and over again. [[Abg. Oils: You have an unforgivable point of view!]] That is, if you want to do something meaningful, you have to involve the doctors. The fears of the doctors cannot be rejected. First: How can the system be implemented in practice? Secondly, Will there be waiting times when all possible things need to be done? What about the costs? How about the startup costs? – These are all the concerns you have to take seriously! It's not about the doctors trying to prevent anything that's somehow positive, just as this is supposed to be. [[pointing toward SPÖ]] They also see that there is a positive development, including with regard to data protection. Now I always hear that all is so uncertain, electronic data is generally unsafe. – We know that there are doctors in Austria who simply throw their health records into the dynamite and dispose of them with the house trash. I know it's not legal, but it's happening anyway. That means that there are always problems with data protection. But it is not a question of generalising that, and every advantage is immediately discussed with the killing argument data protection – even the Pentagon is theoretically “hackable”, even that has already happened; one can ultimately make nothing 100% sure – but it is about that we do not make the mistake of not introducing something good just because we are afraid that it could be misused. That's the point. That is, if there are concerns that there is an abuse possible, then we must make the system safer and not throw the whole thing overboard! That would be the approach. One thing concerning the countries: We have heard – Mr Stöger has admitted this very openly – there are countries where this has become a nightmare, for example, Great Britain, where it has been abolished after ten years and after enormous costs. And now the question is, how can we prevent this nightmare here in Austria? Instead of doing what the doctor's chamber recommended, that is to test this thing locally, look at it once: What is the point of the patient, how are those who have to enter this, how do the pharmacies cope with it, how do you manage to do with the data and with the data exchange, which start-up costs are necessary for the doctors, how can you support the doctors?, so instead of making it very limited locally – for example, we say, once in a district in Vienna – and look at how this is assumed, you simply want to cross an authorisation law on Austria today without regard to losses and without knowing how it can actually be implemented in practice. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein]] That is why we will not have a general authorisation here today. We want to know exactly what is planned, and above all we want a local expansion, where we can see how to implement it at all. We have already heard that there are different computer systems, different programming languages for social security institutions. How can you bring all this together? No one's been so concerned about that yet. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oils.]] We need to clarify all of this – and we need to clarify it locally before we get over it all over Austria. One thing to conclude: If you look at this at Bank Austria, they have done nothing but change their accounting system – no more. You've had the experts drumming together, prepared the months, but you didn't do something we should do here: You haven't tried a test run before. That's the point. We see the problems that Bank Austria now has, and the customers are running away from them. Do you want this to happen to the Austrians as well? [[Abg. Oillinger: Test phase for the Stronach team!]] Do you want to assume that you're using a system here without having tested it before? So I would really recommend that you take the concerns of the medical board seriously. Do this together with the doctors in a partnership! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein.]] And above all: Support the doctors to implement the system, because it will only be partnering and will certainly not go beyond the minds of the doctors and the patients. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e8388	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Aubauer. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e8412	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Let us assume what patients want – in the majority of the elderly –: Our experience shows that the majority of seniors are very positive toward ELGA. Why? – We seniors don’t always want to find the laboratory findings together, we don’t want to drag the X-rays around with us anymore. The benefit of the electronic health records will be if the patient has to move from one doctor to another that the data also migrate – by electronic means. The doctor is always well informed, and that is so important to us, because there are shortcomings. Recently it happened to a colleague because a finding did not exist in time in a second hospital that he had to do a second computer tomography over him within a few days. This would not have been necessary with ELGA. The great advantage of ELGA – and this is even more important for older people – is not a double finding. This saves the patient unnecessary excitement, it also saves us taxpayers a lot of money. This is the speech of almost € 130 million in savings per year from 2017. [[Abg. Oillinger: Do you believe that? You really believe that?]] With this money, we could do a lot for health care, for prevention. That would be something! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: What law are you talking about?]] [[Abg. Oils: That would be something!]] E-medication is a very urgent wish of the seniors. Most have to swallow a whole mix of pills, and then there may be interactions when a doctor does not know what another has prescribed. The Federal Minister has already referred to this problem. Advantage of e-medication: Protection against interactions, because then all medications are stored in the system. Security of the data – even today it has already been mentioned. I know from many conversations, the seniors prepare the security of the data far less headaches than double findings and interactions. [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: For the protocol: no applause!]] It is important for patients that, in the event of an emergency, the Doctor immediately knows the whole medical history. And that's a big advantage. The relationship of trust between doctor and patient is particularly important for us. It is very dear to us that the patients are not insecured. So please don't panic! The Elga project should also bring improvements to the doctors. There must be success in bringing all of us – I emphasize – doctors to the Elga boat. [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: There's no one there yet!]] Let us remember the criticism in connection with the e-card. Even then there were massive resistances, today the e-card is a success story – and that will be Elga too. With the corresponding implementation, Elga brings improvements for patients and for doctors, so for everyone in our health system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e8508	Mr Dr Karlsböck spoke as the next speaker. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e8529	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen here in the High House! The debate about Elga in the overall context of health reform must be seen. There has never been such a great unrest in the health system in the Second Republic. Never before have the patients been confronted with such severe reductions in performance and limitations. Never in the Second Republic has it been so vie- ed self-retained in the health system. There are enormously many restrictions, obstacles to patients when they want to get health care. It has never been spent so much on health in Austria. Never before has the population been so at risk, and never has the working conditions of the health care staff and especially the doctors been as bad as the mood. After four years of Stäger and after what you said today, 50. No. No. of law in your time of government, patients no longer get the best, but the cheapest medicine. As long as you never have to wait for a doctor's appointment, you have to pay the highest amount of self retention in history. 70 000 children are still waiting in Vienna for an adequate treatment site in ergo, physiotherapy and psychotherapy. Psychiatry on sick leave is far removed, treatment for relatives is removed, physiotherapy is shortened from ten to six treatments, and much more. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] There are massive restrictions in the neuro-reha and an opening of the health insurance clinics for some privileged ones. However, you, Mr Minister, tell people here that the supply improves, improves quality, focuses on quality, that everything – in short – is getting better and, above all, cheaper, but does not keep track of how it is to be organised in a market-economy society. I can't do that! Mr Minister, you are hiding that federal government, countries and social security are currently working on an agreement aimed at radical transformation of the Austrian health system. Dramatic power limitations means that. You have to save €3.4 billion! There's an avalanche of stress on people. The only thing you've brought together with it is – because you're still doing that behind closed doors today; just as you did at Elga – that you provoked a medical uprising. Mr Maier – he is not in the hall now – there is this uprising, and this one is not led by our people, but by your people. That must be said at this point too. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Much is said about the patient's priority. Yes, the patient must have priority, but there are now many questions regarding Elga. Elga, we heard today, has brought massive difficulties. You have simply prepared this potentially useful instrumentarium and simply badly. You prepared it badly, you did it badly, and unfortunately you did it badly. We asked in the Committee questions to which we did not receive any answers. Why are the data where they lie not encrypted? Why is there only one transport encryption? Why Exist You politically – as you have said, a political decision – on the opt-out model, the cumbersome unsubscribe, why don't you want an opt-in? Why don't you make technical proof of the treatment context? Why not a test phase? Why, why, why? – We didn’t get answers to that. So, as I said, badly prepared. 130 occupational groups have access to the sensitive data of the people. Have you not seen the major concerns and fears of the patients, Mr. Minister? More than 100,000 signatures have been collected in the ordinations in the shortest time – not by incitement by the doctors – before Elga was started 100,000! In the meantime, we are already – this action continues – at 130 000, 140 000. A popular desire will soon be launched, which the liberals will, of course, join. Elga means nothing more than the end of the doctor's secret. The sensitive data of patients are only safe in practice. That's a statement I can sign. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The networking, which means Elga, means a free letter for cyber criminals, means an end to anonymity, confidentiality, intimacy of the doctor/patient relationship. It means an end to self-determination and ultimately the human dignity of the patient. It means full control, full surveillance, end of data protection. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Oberhauser.]] Unfortunately, this is the Elga project, as we see it today. That is the great criticism. The accusation of the policy that the doctors are merely opposed to control is absolutely absurd. It is already being monitored and regulated very intensively. Each patient knows a song of singing that there is a comprehensive authorisation requirement for every minor. The patient has to complete an authorisation marathon in every minute. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] About every prescribed drug, every performance is already conducted statistically. Elga can't regulate it even more precisely and monitor it even more. Finally, I would like to point out the costs. Mr Stöger, do you really believe that the cost planning you have presented will last? Faith You do this with the experience of a Skylink, an AKH or a Nordbahnhof, which we build in Vienna? – Unfortunately, all of this doesn’t work! The conclusion for Elga from our side: Elga is medically unusable, disabled in medical activity and costs a fortune. One last sentence: Play You're not going to take out the patients against the doctors anymore! Stop stirring up unrest, incite distrust and do not use the most primitive envy complexes! [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ.]] Otherwise, you would have to be accused of being nothing more than a nuisance factor in a relatively functioning system.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e8657	Mr Spindelberger came to speak as the next speaker. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e8679	That's exactly what distinguishes a Maserati-drived dentist from me. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] I would really like to deal with Elga on the subject. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] And the fact that I am very proud of being at the baptism of the electronic health acts is what distinguishes me from the opposition's former cavalry. [[Abg. New builder: Such a shache envy debate, an intrusive one!]] For one thing you have forgotten, Dr. Karlsböck: that this law is very probably written a milestone in the area of Austrian history. But I too would like to express my displeasure here about the more than incomprehensible and – I say so so – partly also irresponsible conduct of the officials – I make a difference in the doctor's chamber. [[Abg. May. Stefan: Who are you, anyway? Who are you? Why do you know that? Why do you know yourself? Are you a learned politician?]] What is it about this Elga system? – In the future, all findings and all relevant health documents of patients will be stored electronically. And we've heard it today, too: Each patient has the possibility to separate himself from this system either completely, I would like to say that no data appear from me anywhere, or he/she can only take out individual findings. [[Abg. May. Stefan: Do you really know yourself?]] And precisely these data are then stored decentralisedally by the doctor or hospital, and according to the most strictly defined technical quality criteria. For the established doctors – Mr. Dr. Rasinger – I have to tell you that – only the obligation to store the following data – we have four points, if I know it right now: the letters of discharge from the hospitals, the laboratory and radiology findings and the medicines prescribed by the doctor. And otherwise, there is no obligation for doctors to participate. [[Call the FPÖ: Currently!]] I say from my point of view: unfortunately. But since you, colleague Rasinger, meant that you should have talked more to the doctors in advance: There have been enough rounds of negotiations over the last 18 months, in which the Ministry's wishes have been met. For me, one thing is undisputed – and this should be understood by every doctor – is that this law, which we adopt today, will increase the quality of treatment for patients very well and will find new quality and safety criteria in the area of data protection. [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: How do you know?]] [[Abg. Dr. Fichtenbauer: Are you a doctor?]] However, it is essential – and this is the decisive thing in this law – that the hospitals and the doctors with this electronic health act build up a kind of communication vessel, as it can improve for the benefit of the patients of the information flow – and, I say, need to be improved. At the moment, this is all the responsibility of the patients. If the doctors are now partly massively opposed to the We are putting this system into operation in their ordination, and – that is what hurts me – I wonder what the whole thing should be. Are they perhaps afraid that they might have been mistreated patients in recent times? In your speech, Mr Rasinger, you have always talked about what is acceptable to the doctors and what is not, I say only one thing: No doctor can use the treatment methods in the 19th century. ==References====External links== By the end of the 19th century! From my point of view, it should finally succeed – this is what most of the established doctors do anyway – to put patients at the centre, not always their own bank account.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e8797	Next speaker: Mr Grünewald. 6 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e8818	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! At ELGA, this complex subject, I will do so. Now do not mention the clawed example of the full and empty glass. The opinions are very different. What was said about the doctor's chamber and its officials does not reflect what all doctors think. The medical profession is not a monolithic block. Among the doctors employed is certainly the majority for ELGA because they have grown up in similar systems and are living with them. In the field of practice there are resistances, on the one hand due to data protection and on the other due to a feared extra effort and an increase in bureaucracy. It is argued that then less time remains for the patient. The Pentagon has been mentioned several times. But if one were to overstep this example, we would be in the Middle Ages. Then you probably don't save data anywhere, no matter where. I don't think Austria is on its way to the monarchy. We are also mandatory members of the health insurance companies. There's no opt-in. The opt-in then becomes difficult when entire countries with their medical chambers advise the patients to go to the so-called or feared danger. When doctors say: Don't do that, you're glass, everyone looks in, what will patients do? - You won't do it. However, Oillinger is right: More patient-friendliness would have been beneficial, and then perhaps an active opt-in would not have been a problem. Nevertheless: It remains four years until ELGA is established, and this opportunity must, I believe, be used. The Fessel Institute has an approval of 80 percent of the population. But I would also be careful, because probably 80 percent are not so informed in detail that they can, so to speak, judge it in the full consciousness of Pro and Kontra. But now I'm also talking about living practice. How often have I experienced that in the middle of the night a patient comes with relatives who say he was in the clinic three days before. And it was impossible to get data – impossible. The doctor's letter and the fever curve were in the doctor's room under very high stacks of doctor's letters to be dictated; if correctly acted, even locked in a closet, which was rather rare. There was no access. People often come from nursing homes that are under-occupied at night, they are heavily under-occupied, they come partly because of small things. And if you ask them, they say they took a yellow tablet, three red and two white tablets. – There are no data there, even from nursing homes. I have seen a tragic case where a patient – even a doctor – has been found to be false in order to keep her in the belief that she has no metastasis of a malignant tumor. She comes in with epileptic attack, to another clinic, not to the one who came in, no one knows what she has. If you knew there were brain metastases, you could have explained the epilepsy, and so on. So to say that all this doesn't make sense for the patient, I think it's hard to cover. [[Complementary of the Abg. Dr. Moser, with representatives of SPÖ and Abg. Head.]] Patients can look at their findings and data for the first time – for the first time! In the past the patient was even kept away from the doctor's letters, they didn't get them at all. Chefs, business doctors, school doctors don't have access to the data, and that's something. Nor do voluntary insurances, not private insurances, the employer not – that is for me already a certain moment of security. For doctors, it is certainly a kind of foreign and own evaluation when their data they have received from or collected from the patient become visible to colleagues and colleagues. I think that can be unpleasant, but all doctors will get to take a closer look at everything. It should not happen then, what I have often experienced, that a patient is assigned in the middle of the night on whose paper stands: highly feverish patient. And then, when I say, You don't have a fever at all, he says the doctor wrote it up and put the transfer to the garden gate. – There is also, but is not the rule; there would be serious insult to doctors. There are all the access documents. The patient can see who looked into his file, and without patient and his consent, nothing goes. I believe that in these three years there is still a lot of desired improvements to be implemented, and I see that there are people who also want to talk – in this hope I remain. Then there can be something out of this system that you don't have to be as afraid or distorted as you are now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e8900	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Hakl. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e8922	Mr President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) ELGA – ELGA is the largest IT project this Republic has ever set up. I have always expressed my voice in recent years that we are doing this for several reasons. Austria is known for its good health system, and it makes sense if Austria is one of the first countries to have a functioning electronic health act. In principle, the idea of an electronic health act, some of my previous speakers have pointed out anything other than something bad. When I was pregnant last year, always commuting between Innsbruck and Vienna – risk pregnancy because of old mother – I would have liked to see my data available online and quickly in Vienna in case anything happened. Instead, I permanently traveled back and forth with a pack of paper between Innsbruck and Vienna. So, basically, this electronic health record makes sense, and I know that such an electronic health act can also be put in place in such a way that you can recommend good conscience to every doctor and patient to participate in it. On the one hand, I all the more regret the negotiation process initially initiated by the Federal Minister. As I say now, small light and small Members in this House, I cannot understand, Minister of State, how the doctors were dealing with quite serious concerns at the beginning and over a large part of the duration of these talks from your ministry and you. In your case, it is always clear that the Chamber of Labour rightly represents interests. But today it has occurred in a shocking way, how the SPÖ obviously does not take seriously the concerns of the medical board, which is responsible for representing the interests of the doctors. [[Abg. Dr. Strutz: Why doesn't Rasinger say that?]] [[Call the FPÖ: Because he can't!]] On the one hand, there are interests of doctors, hospitals, countries on the other hand as regards the electronic health records. However, for me at the center was always the interest of the individual, of the individual citizen. Citizens and the protection of their data are a key issue, and the citizen has only this Parliament and not the Chamber of Doctors to be represented. Many things in this law are well done. A very big point remains: It is absolutely incomprehensible to me why both in the hospitals of the countries, but in particular now, in 2013, with a new ELGA to be set up, the external ELGA data storage must not even be encrypted! Yes, I talked to employees of ELGA GmbH until late last night: This is also clear to them, and they want to remove this flaw in a security regulation in the future. I would have found, Minister Stöger, that it would have been possible to vote in the morning to do so in the same way in this law. To me, it is still completely incomprehensible that this has not happened. Also in confidence and in the hope that this regulation will be made clean and proper, I am unfortunately unable to agree to this law today. Health data is not so sensitive because Mrs. Karin Hakl is imagining this, but because insurance companies or banks would spend a fortune knowing each of them: Does a person live long enough to repay a loan? Is the risk of insurance these people high, very high or low? Or don't I take it into my insurance first? We're tearing up a lot of holes here. Much more people than before have access to much more data. In particular, I would also like to thank Mr Rasinger for having at least one real opt-out with an amendment, without the data being basically stored, that a technical protection of the treatment context was also introduced into this law by means of an amendment. My optimism that the basic data protection – including in the sense of a content encryption – is at the end still in the way of the regulation remains true. Since it is not in the law, so to speak, as an admonition, I am unfortunately voting against it today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e8968	The next speaker is Mrs Haubner. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e8990	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, Social security, i.e. the main association, the countries, the ministry has long been calling for a reform of the health care system. Millions will be saved by 2016. How, when this reform is to come, which is to secure our, as everyone stresses, good system, is actually more than unclear. It's clear what's on the table today. The electronic health acts are to come – including a long, endless history – with an introduction cost of € 150 million. The current costs are still unclear. Especially at ELGA, it turns out to me that not everything that lasts for a long time must be good. It is quite clear that when it comes to introducing a new system, there is a lot of persuasion to bring all the necessary partners into the boat, that of course there are advantages and disadvantages. We also had a very interesting expert hearing in committee. For me, for us still some questions of- and we are still doubting that what is in place for decision-making is the right way. We from the BZÖ say quite clearly Yes, the real voluntaryness and self-responsibilities of patients to go to a system that stores a lot of sensitive data, because we believe that only the patient, only the patient as a powerful citizen, can decide, in the sense of his personal health, which data is to be brought together personally and for his benefit and to whom he informs. Therefore: Yes to an active opt-in system! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] But No to an opt-out system, which first records everyone, and then you can get out, but with many obstacles and possibly also disadvantages, that there is an erasure here! There is now an amendment tabled by Mr Rasinger; I have not yet been able to take a close look at it. We will look at him carefully whether there could be a change in this sense. I suspect that we currently have this opt-out solution – Mr Spadiut has already said it – because the patient, the patient, does not trust that they decide for themselves, and many would probably not go into this system. That is why we say: political solution, everyone in it, and anyone who wants to get out has to get involved. – This will be a little difficult in elderly patients. We from BZÖ say: a clear yes to that which supports that patient and patient should get a very safe and comprehensible finding. But we say absolutely No to a new bureaucracy! We see this with this electronic health record, especially we see the danger that this will go with his patient at the expense of the necessary time, at the expense of the necessary talks and the personal contact of the doctor with his patient. We also clearly say yes to a comprehensive security of personal data, but no to the fact that data are used for purposes other than medical treatment, even in anonymized form! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Therefore, we see more risks from the BZÖ in today's draft than opportunities, we see many or some unresolved problems – the opt-out system I have already addressed – and we also see the high costs that are not clear to this day. Therefore, according to our conviction, ELGA is primarily an expensive prestige project. It is an expensive prestige project that has failed in other countries, in other European countries, a project of yours, Mr. Federal Minister, that you naturally want to sell and sell as a success experience, in order to avoid the fact that there is nothing going on in the health reform, especially as far as real administrative savings are concerned. As an example, I only mention the aggregation of the various social security systems or the harmonisation of the computer system. We are therefore not going to give our approval to this government proposal today.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e9060	Next speaker: Mr Sacher. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e9081	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! “A expensive prestige project” – Mrs. Haubner, remember: It was already foreseen in the government agreement of Black and Blue, namely you, at the time. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ursula Haubner: It didn't come! We already knew why not!]] [[Further calls to the BZÖ.]] Secondly, very honoured. Ladies and gentlemen: We experienced blue panic pure before in the speech of the doctor, the dentist Dr. Karlsböck. A question to him: What country did he talk about in the pursuit of the health system? Not from Austria! Not from a country with one of the best health systems in the world! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Thank God, ladies and gentlemen, there are many doctors who think more positively than some here in the House or in the Chamber of Doctors. If a Lower Austrian council of states has spoken of the abolition of the Chamber, I think he may have taken a little too far. But some of the officials were elected there, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Call the FPÖ: In the chambers too!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] I would like to briefly highlight ELGA from the perspective of care – as a representative of a large care organization, namely the Volkshilfe – and ask this question: Is ELGA also usable for care in the future? – The answer is clear: Yes, there will also be progress in the care of ELGA. In one of the further expansion phases, care service providers are also included in the ELGA system. [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. May. Aubauer.]] It is urgently necessary – I can say from practice – that we ensure more information networking also in care. Therefore, ELGA will also benefit in the care, first and foremost for the affected people, for the patients and the patients we care for. Today, several health facilities are mostly involved in the treatment and care, and the flow of information between them has to be safeguarded across borders. Already existing knowledge of the patient strengthens the quality of medical and nursing decisions. ELGA will ensure that, ladies and gentlemen. Patients' safety will be increased. In particular, the burden on patients through multiple studies can be reduced, and ELGA will contribute to this. That is also a question of humanity. It's usually about old people, and it's about people that can't be taxed anymore. But also the loadability of the family and the caregivers is a limited one, and ELGA will help us here. Finally, it is also a question of costs. Time savings in dealing with medical bureaucracy, if I may call it so, will also be a cost savings; it will be time, and it will remain money for care. In this sense, ladies and gentlemen, we are certainly very positive about ELGA by the fostering organizations.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e9167	The next speaker was Mr Dr. Strutz. If desired, 5 minutes are set. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e9189	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The Law on the Electronic Health Act is certainly a highly sensitive matter and is certainly the law with the most extensive consequences for each of us – for everyone, for you personally – that we decide in this legislative period. That is why I should also like to pay tribute to and respect for the debate by Mrs Hakl, who has made a personal decision on his own initiative: I do not trust the fine words spoken here by the Minister of Health and which are bound by the law, and I will vote against them. Federal Minister! Whether ELGA will work will only show the future: whether the doctors will assume whether the patients can deal with it. I remain skeptical because it is a compulsory system because it is not based on voluntaryness and the patient, the Doctor is convinced of the undoubtedly also positive things contained in this law, but because it is decreed and because it happens on pressure. We liberals reject ELGA for a number of reasons: because we believe that it is a bad law that lies here in the National Council, because it is an immature law and because it – believe me! . this Parliament will continue to work for a long time. I only quote opinions within the framework of the legislative process, such as those of the Court of Auditors. The Court of Auditors has found that: With the concept envisaged, a cost-benefit calculation is not recognizable. The above objectives cannot be achieved. The financial impact will not be met by cost-benefit. It is not clear for which specific purposes the financial resources are used for ELGA GmbH. It is not understandable to assume the reasons for increasing the administrative burden and the costs for companies, which means the alliances in the countries. That is what the Court of Auditors says, not the opposition! The Land of Salzburg states – quote –: We call into question “the sensibleness and benefits of a system to be implemented with a high financial effort.” I am delighted how the Members of the State of Salzburg will vote personally today! The Chamber of Directors also rejects ELGA in this form, although some consent is finally given after 15 million start-up funding is granted. ELGA costs us several hundred million €, which is money that can be used to finance long-term medical benefits for patients. ELGA exposes a large number of Austrians on the network. And personally: Ask yourself whether you really want to have that! According to the latest hack attacks, as they have, for example, been the case at the regional health fund in Tyrol, we say that the safety standards do not meet that high level – it has been referred to – which is actually State of the Art. I also believe that a technical design error is that the data are stored in a decentralised, non-centralized way, because they would be safer in central storage, while small health service providers institutions such as the Landeskrankenkasse in Tirol are not guaranteed. We are determined against a compulsory obligation of the Austrians! If you don't want ELGA, you have to get out of the Internet. I really appeal to you, Mr Health Minister, to let ELGA become a reality only with express consent and to transform the opt-out rule for patients as a restriction of patient rights and the legal introduction of a warrant of justification in respect of one's own conviction into an opt-in rule, that is, a voluntary one. We liberals want complete data security – that is not guaranteed so far – we want absolute generosity, we want a more affordable variant of how it would be soluble with the new technical possibilities, and we want patient kindness. Mr President, I shall conclude. – ELGA devours sum of tax money. We want our tax money to be used first for health care, for more doctors in the public hospitals, for more care staff and for better payment of the staff in the hospitals, but not for health services in the area of IT systems that will cost more than they benefit us.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e9255	Next speaker: Mr Donabauer. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e9276	Mr President, Minister of State! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Dr. Strutz, if you want anything anyway, then negotiate and agree. – The simplest answer to your speech. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. May. Maier.]] Federal Minister! As a parliamentarian, I allow myself to say that not everything that is announced – even if a minister announces it – is already a law. I have made some perceptions there, and I think we can discuss these questions and some other open questions intensively in the near future. To ELGA: I've been here – many of you too – when we introduced the e-card. That was a debate! We needed several votes anyway. There were all the assumptions that happened: Abuse, loss, too expensive, so an insanity! The e-card has been introduced, and it is a hearty product throughout Europe today! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Other countries come to us and ask: How did you do that? Although ELGA does not correspond to all the intentions today, ELGA – I am convinced – will, if everyone is working on it, make a similar development. Because I think the time is ripe, that we are thinking about more networking, that we are thinking of more information, and that we are coming to more agreement and coordination, especially with the entire health care providers who really don't have it easy. ELGA is a step towards that. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] When often said, the government explains and does nothing – we have in the Government Declaration on XXIII. and XXIV. The legislative period clearly states that we want to go this way that we want to critically question the structure of health facilities, an integrated supply that involves providers as such in the process. But the control is also to be continued. There should be a bridge at the supply interfaces. That was a clear explanation. Here we have a law that to a great extent corresponds to these intentions: to a great extent! Well, one thing that matters to me – not necessarily who is right – is that the patients come to their right. When I studied this law, I have gained the conviction that the patients will come to their right. They are included, they can opt out, they can opt in again. So the patients come to their right. [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: By the way, huh?]] Furthermore, the data are also appropriately secured, as all the pre-defined directives have been duly taken into account. I think that we will continue to work on this, because technological competition is constantly under way. What I do not like is that it says that technological equipment brings jobs like this to Austria, because in the IT sector, we have not benefited too much in terms of jobs to date. However, this is just a marginal remark and does not alter the fact that the law as such has a clear structure, a clear goal and is therefore also capable of being adopted. Today's decision-making does not change anything, either, that there will be a name-named vote. We will also bear these, and they will take place. Everyone is invited to submit their critical objections. We follow the principle of making a law that benefits people. I wish us good luck in the implementation of this clear definition.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e9331	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Steinhauser. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e9352	Ladies and gentlemen! Whether advocates or opponentsIn this law, everyone today has emphasized how highly sensitive this issue is. Right! The issue is the storage of health data, the question of how it is networked and linked and who can retrieve it. Some find the law frightening, others practical, but all have to ask the same questions and also ask the same questions, whether young or old, and the questions are obvious: Is my health data safe? Who can see her? And can I protect myself from abuse? I'm grateful to Dr. Rasinger for not giving the impression that the health data is safe. Dr. Rasinger has rightly said, perhaps in other words: There are data leaks where data are stored. – We know that at the latest since Anonymous and Wikileaks, and there are many others who extract data for commercial reasons. The health data, and we know that too, are of course interesting for commercial reasons. They are interesting for pharmaceutical companies, for insurance companies, for employers. I do not want all these professional groups to assume that they want to extract data, but there is no doubt that there is an interest in sensitive health data. If you ask whether the health data is safe at ELGA, the answer is obvious: You could be safer! What is missing is the full encryption of the data, so that the data would be unusable, even if ELGA is hacked. Let me make a comparison: A bank protects itself against bank robbery. If, however, a bank robber enters and collects money, one adds a color package to him so that he cannot use the money. This colour package is missing in ELGA. While one protects itself from a hacker entering the system, once it's inside, the data is open. There is a lack of full encryption, which would mean that the health data are not necessary for the hacker. The answer to the question of why full encryption is not planned, Minister, you have remained guilty of us in the committee. We have put these on several occasions, several political groups have done so. You have remained guilty to us, and this is a pity, because an important security element is not included and certainly does not guarantee the highest possible standard of data protection. A second point, ladies and gentlemen: Who should participate in ELGA? This question is central. The government has opted for an opt-out system. We'd prefer an opt-in system. Why? – The debate on data protection is also about creating awareness. The citizens should be aware of this. decide that their data will be stored. And that's only possible through an opt-in rule. Citizens will also choose to do so because they conclude for themselves that there is a benefit for them. Only in this way creates the necessary sensitivity. I'll tell you what's going to happen to an opt-out system: There will not be 99.99 percent out of it because it is relatively complicated because they do not have a citizen card because they do not go to the ombudspersons. You'll stay inside. There will be no awareness of data protection. Apart from that: An opt-in system would force administration to focus on customer orientation, because if you want citizens to participate in the system, you have to make it as attractive as possible to them. If you have an opt-out system, then the only concern is to build up as high obstacles as possible so that no one opts out. We are not against ELGA in principle, but we believe that much is better and different in nature. We therefore also make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] One last sentence: Respect for Mr Hakl! To vote against one's own party line is always a challenge. We also have a long common data protection history. I can still remember that our positions in data storage have coincided with each other. We've been filming illegally back then. That's where you wanted to take the camera away. – I am pleased to realize that there is a high level of awareness on this issue. But also respect for Mr Green Forest, even if he does not share my opinion this time. Parliamentaryism lives on the diversity of opinions. And in this sense, I am pleased that two Members once demonstrate that they are different from their club. So we're changing Green Forest for Hakl today. That's it. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e9441	The amendment just tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e9545	Next speaker: Mrs Hellerer. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e9566	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! I also respect Mr Green Forest, for he has clearly stressed the benefits for the patient, and I would like to start my debate on what I believe to be the benefit that ELGA can have for patients in the future. I have also experienced the information system, as it corresponds to the current possibilities. I had to care for a leukemia patient who had been hospitalized and ambulant at the AKH Vienna. Her health condition worsened so that a transport to the AKH Vienna was no longer possible and she had to be taken to the district hospital. The patient had no findings. In her condition she could not provide information about diagnosis or medication and treatment. The doctors of the hospital have managed to reach through the AKH an official doctor who has treated her at the AKH Vienna, and he has been able to ensure the correct care of the patient. In such situations it is actually about life and death! You have also shown this very clearly, Dr. Grünewald. This is a self-imposed situation by which I would like to point out how complex communication between hospitals is still working. In addition, there are also the interfaces to the established doctors and also to other health care providers. If ELGA works in full development, the difficulties that exist now when it comes to information on health data can be avoided in the future. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Through ELGA, patient data will be available directly and without delay everywhere, and they are based on secure data. ELGA is an information system that will enable patients, hospitals, established doctors, pharmacies and end-of-life care facilities to access important health data securely. The e-card is the key to retrieving these data, whereby it, and I have to say this now, remains for the patients through opt-out during voluntary participation. Everyone has the opportunity to decide for themselves whether they want to store their health data at ELGA or not. Despite some of the concerns that I can share today, access to modern information technologies offers, of course, very great opportunities in addition to the risks. The opportunities will be outweighed by Weitem. It is time to introduce ELGA now and start this project. It will benefit our health system and patients.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e9618	As the last speaker on this item on the agenda, Mr Köfer is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e9639	Mr President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Who of us does not have a Facebook account? [[Call:I]] - All right, most of us. It now belongs to the good sound of every politician who wants to act youthfully, coolly and transparently. All with Facebook account post images and texts, of which they think the whole world could be interested. They hope for the more requests for friendship, the more personal data they publish. The more, the better! What happens, though, if we were presented to the public by another user with a photo of us, a photo that you wouldn't have published in this form? I know in retrospect exactly who did that. If the damage is already done, however, it is too late. Facebook became a global social network. It has done a lot of good, but it has also made everyday life hell for some. We have experienced how in the revolutions in the Arab region, talks, in words, but also with Facebook, democracy was forced. However, there have also been divorces, jobs and apartments have been lost because the user carried his life outside and made public awareness for everyone. Thus, the comparison with ELGA is given. [[Abg. Riepl: Isn't that the wrong talk?]] – This is not the wrong speech! It would be too easy to see ELGA as an electronic health act, a file on our health status, which only doctors and medical institutions can post. ELGA is more, is a milestone! The networking of all health-related data and facts includes the immense opportunity to help reduce bureaucracy in the medical administration. However, ELGA also poses a major risk of loss and misuse of sensitive personal data. This is particularly because the more people have access to the respective IT system the more the security of such data is disappearing. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and Team Stronach.]] Children's diseases may well afford social networks such as Twitter and Facebook, but not an electronic health act. The leaflet shows: It is warned of risks from the medical board, from data protectors, but above all from lawyers, and these concerns should be taken seriously. Specially, ladies and gentlemen, the medical board rightly complains of the IT system and the security of the data. Even if one can then document the access with a protocol, this abuse has already been carried out. There is nothing to be done if one can determine the accessor in retrospect. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and Team Stronach.]] Estimated Minister of State! Our health system is certainly one of the best in the world. We must not, however, be confined to the political and socio-economic problems of medical care. I therefore try to be very friendly to rethink, treat, eliminate these childhood diseases, in order to optimize the interfaces of the medical value chain between the ambulatories, hospitals, nursing homes, doctors and patients, as well as medical and pharmaceutical research. I would ask you to make an effort to ensure full encryption. And another personal wish for you: Look for the conversation with the medical profession, because only with its acceptance can the health system function more efficiently at the end of the day.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e9700	No one is reporting on this. I therefore conclude the debate. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall vote on the draft law in 1979. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, two amendments have been tabled. There is also a desire for separate vote. I shall therefore first vote on the amendments, taking into account the request for separate vote, and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law that have not yet been voted. We shall proceed to the vote on the amendment tabled by Mr Öllinger, Mr colleagues, on the deletion of Section 13, paragraph 14. 1, 2a to 5 and Sections 15 to 24, 27 and 28 para. 2 to 5 in Art. 1. Whoever joins this amendment, I am looking for a sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on these parts of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. Whoever agrees to this, I ask for a positive sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on the amendment tabled by Mr Öllinger, colleagues, on the deletion of § 14 para. 2 in Art. 1. I'm looking for a sign when I'm agreed. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the amendment tabled by Mr Oellinger, colleagues, on amendment to § 14 para. 2 in Art. 1. If you would like to accept this amendment, I would like to ask for a sign. – That too is the minority. Rejected. We shall immediately proceed to a separate vote on this part of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. I am looking for a sign for those ladies and gentlemen who give him their consent. - It's accepted by a majority. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law and the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I am looking for a sign for those ladies and gentlemen who are here for their approval. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall immediately reach the third reading. The vote has been taken on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials, the Verification of As this request was made by 20 Members, the vote must be taken. The votes to be used are in the House of Deputies and bear the name of the Members as well as the name 'Yes', which are the grey ballots, or 'No', which are the pink ones. Only those official votes may be used for the vote. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, Members are called upon to put the vote in the votes cast. I am seeking the approval of those Members who agree with this draft law at third reading, yes, those who do not give him their consent to put “No” votes. Please be careful to throw only one vote mark. I would now ask the author, Mr Zanger, to begin the call for name; Member of the European Parliament Auer will replace him. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e9812	The vote will end. The officials of the House responsible for this task will now make their votes under the supervision of the Correspondents. The meeting will be suspended for a few minutes. The sitting was suspended.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e9851	I will resume the interrupted sitting and announce the outcome of the vote. Members cast: 171; of which ‘Yes’ votes: 102, ‘No’ votes: 69. This draft law is therefore adopted at the third reading. According to § 66 para. 8 of the Rules of Procedure, the names of the Members shall be included in the Stenographic Protocol, indicating their voting behaviour. Members voted in ‘Yes’: Ablinger, Amon, Aubauer, Auer Jacob, Auer Joseph, Bayr, Mulder, Binder-Maier, Buchmayr; Cap, Cortolezis scraper, Csörgits; Donabauer, strike-through; Incubators, eaters; Fazekas, Franz, Fuhrmann, Fürntrath-Moretti; Gahr, Gaßner, Gerstl, Gessl-Ranftl, Glaser, Grillitsch, Großruck, Grünewald; Haberzettl, Hakel Elisabeth, Hammer, Haubner Peter, Hechtl, Heinzl, Hell, Himmelbauer, Hellerer, Hörl, Hornek, Huainigg; Ikrath; Kaipel, Katzian, Keck, Kirchgatterer, Königsberger-Ludwig, Head, Kößl, Krainer, Herbs, Crist, Kuntzl, Kuzdas; Lapp, Lettenbichler, Lipitsch, Lohfeyer, Lueger Angela; Maier Johann, Marek, Matznetter, Mayer Elmar, Mayer Peter, Muchitsch, Muttonen; Neugebauer Fritz; Oberhauser, Obernosterer; Pack, Pendl, Plessl, Prehauser, Prammer, Praßl, Preiner, Prince; Rädler Johann, Rasinger, Riepl, Rudas; Sacher, Schickhofer, Schittenhelm, Schmielenschlager, Schönegger Bernd, Schönpass Rosemarie, Schopf, Schultes, Silhavy, Singer, Spindelberger, Stauber Peter, Steibl Ridi Maria, Steindl Konrad, Steßl-Mühlbacher, Stummvoll; Tamandl; Wenninger, Windish, Wittmann Peter, Wöinger, Worm. Members voted with ‘No’: Belakovich-Jenewein, Brosz Dieter, Brunner Christiane, Bucher Josef; Deimek, Dolinschek, Doppler; Fichtenbauer; Gartelgruber, Grastaur, Graf, Grosz Gerald; Hagen, Haider, Hakl Karin, Haubner Ursula, Herbert Werner, Höbart Christian, Hofer, Huber Gerhard, Hübner Johannes; Jannach, Jarmer, jury; Karlsböck, Kaufmann-Bruckberger, Kickl, Kitzmüller, Köfer, Korun, Kunasek; Lausch, Lichtenecker, Linder, List, Lugar Robert; Markowitz, Mayerhofer, Moser, Mühlberghuber, Musiol; Neubauer Werner; Oils; Petzner, Podgorschek; Riemer, Roskranz, Rossmann; Treasure, Scheibner, Gift, Schwentner, Spadiut, Stefan, Steinhauser, Strache, Strutz; Tadler Erich; Inland waterways; Venier, Vilimsky, Vock; Walser, Widmann Rainer, Windbühler-Sushill, Windwood, Winter; Singer, Zinggl. [[14:07:22]] 2. Point Report of the Health Committee on the Government Template (1935, e.g._Other Organiser Bundesgesetz, with which a federal law on the transplant of human organs (Organ Transplantation Act (OTPG) is amended, and the Federal Law on Hospitals and Curriculums, the Medicines Act, the tissue safety law and the Federal Law on Health Austria GmbH (1980 d.B.) 3rd. Point Report and request of the Health Committee on the draft federal law amending the General Social Insurance Act, the Commercial Social Insurance Act, the Agricultural Social Insurance Act and the Civilian Health and Accidental Insurance Act (1981 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e10057	We come to points 2 and 3 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There has been no oral reporting on point 3. I call on the rapporteur, Mr Rasinger, to present a print error correction on point 2. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e10081	I would like to make the following correction to the report of the Health Committee of 24. October 2012 in 1980 of the Supplements concerning a Federal Act amending a Federal Law on the Transplantation of Human Organs (Organ Transplantation Act – OTPG) and the Federal Law on Hospitals and Spas, the Medicines Act, the Tissue Safety Act and the Federal Law on Health Austria GmbH: The draft legislation attached to the Committee's report is designed to complement the remaining Annexes A and B contained in the Government template.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e10100	Thank you for this correction. We are going into the debate. Mr Haberzettl spoke. 3 minutes of speaking time are adjusted in a wishful manner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e10129	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! No harmonised quality and safety standards existed in the EU until recently in connection with transplants of human organs. The subsequent directive on quality and safety standards for human organs intended for transplants is now to be transposed into national law. The directive is implemented mainly in a federal law on the transplant of human organs, also called organ transplant law. This law, in turn, lays down the quality and safety standards to be observed in the removal and transplant of human organs. In addition, the necessary adjustments are made in other laws: These are the Federal Law on Hospitals and Spas, the Medicines Act, the Tissue Safety Act and the Federal Law on Health Austria GmbH. The Organ Transplant Act essentially contains ethical principles for organ donation. In particular, it should be noted that the voluntary and free use of live donations, the prohibition of the payment of organ donations, the prohibition of profit-based legal transactions relating to human organs and the prohibition of advertising in this regard. The solution of the opposition which has been in force since 1982 remains unchanged. This means that an organ withdrawal for post-death transplant purposes is permitted, provided that the deceased has not contradicted it at lifetimes. For the opponents of the opt-out solution, I point out the following: This 30-year opt-out solution is a foundation for the success story of the Austrian transplant system. The Register of Objections is also maintained by Gesundheit Österreich GmbH. The living donations have not yet been explicitly regulated and a legal framework is now being laid down. This contains essentially: a ban on organ donations of under 18-year-olds, comprehensive written and oral medical education, consent in written form, no withdrawal in case of serious risk to the donor or the donor, a follow-up examination by the receiving hospital three months after the donation, and then still regular written reminders of professional checks. Health Österreich GmbH, in agreement with the Transplant Advisory Board, which is in turn implemented in the Society, is obliged to draw up scientific recommendations for all phases of the transplant chain and aftercare. I think that Austria will continue to have a, if not the most practical, solution in Europe, with the present law, but will have a system aimed at saving life.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e10178	The next speaker is Mrs Deputies. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e10200	Mr President. Federal Minister! As an enthusiastic criminal, I fell into my hands on this holiday a book that has dealt with the topic of organ trafficking. It was very exciting because it was apparently very realistically written. In reading this crime, but also in the case of television documentation on the same subject, I have once again become aware of how useful the Austrian regulation is with the solution to the contradiction. Today's legislative decision improves the situation in Austria a little more, especially in the field of life transplants. People who are ready for organ transplant usually take on much, mostly to support family members, very often even to save their lives. With the new regulation of compulsory aftercare or the creation of an individual post-care plan, the state recognises this great human performance. The fact that the new rules clarify that aftercare and any subsequent complications are to be considered as an insurance case in the sense of a disease also brings clarity and security to the donors. As a major step in the sense of donor security, I also consider the granting of a life-long pension in the event of a reduction in working capacity. Of course, the Austrian opposition regime remains upright and is regulated by clear rules, including in the implementation of an EU directive. The fact that it is forbidden to sell organs, i.e. to gain profit, is as unmistakably clarified as the character of voluntaryness in relation to donors and donors. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, a good Austrian solution becomes even better and safer and brings both patients and donors more safety and quality. The unanimity of the decision should also be seen as a sign of political and political responsibility in this country. – Thank you very much for that.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e10239	The next speaker was Mr Karlsböck. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e10260	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The law as such has already been declared, it has already been discussed. This is more or less about the details of aftercare for living donations. In fact, there is no need to discuss much more, we will agree. But I would like to take the opportunity to try to start a discussion in this debate on something fundamental, ethical, namely, the problem behind the, not living, but, if you like, death donation. In the public, the organ donation is rightly seen as an act of charity. That's good and right. However, it is also necessary to highlight from time to time how these processes actually work out. We have a technical definition of the death of a person in the hospital: This is the brain death, the failure of the cerebral brain, the cerebral brain and the cerebral stem. This is from 1968 and, according to today's state of science, is of course only a partial aspect of dying and a partial aspect in the legal sense. Let's say it differently: Rightly speaking, brain death is an art grip for people who are not yet completely dead to take out the organs, because organ transplant only works when the organs, trivially said, are still alive. Unfortunately, we have no discussion at all in our country. As the previous speaker, Mr Haberzettl, said: The solution to the contradiction is a great success of transplant medicine at the moment. That's all good and right. By the way, transplant medicine will always have too few organs. Why? Because their treatment methods are also getting better and better. That too must be said, in the positive sense. So since 1982, the solution to the contradiction has been valid with us. Now, if you continue to question, this solution means the following: If the objection is omitted – by the way, this also applies to foreigners who die with us – this is considered to be an approval of the removal of organs in the event. The dying person thus loses any legal claim as a person and is deprived of his family, you simply have to say so once. To do this, you have to say: If society no longer asks what this dying person needs, but only asks more what we need from this dying man, then we have a problem, and that undermines the foundation of living together massively. No question to help the sick with organ sufferings, we must do all we can, but in consideration of the dignity of the dying and their relatives. I would also like to address this issue because I have had a lot to do with parents who have experienced something very traumatic, namely the loss of their child, lately – do not ask why. With these unfortunate parents, I was in the discussion process. I'm just telling you the following: If a tragic fate occurs, for example, when parents lose their child due to a tragic accident, these people usually end up with this dramatic fate after a certain process of processing. However, they will not be done when they learn what happens in the event that they have agreed to an organ transplant has happened to their child because in such a case the most dramatic happens, namely: You can't say goodbye to her child at the moment of death. It may be too abstract to address it here in the House, but as a free Member of Parliament, who only has to take account of his conscience, I believe that we can calm down such a discussion here. I am now telling you about two examples of how this works in a normal hospital where such transplant teams work. In one there is a dying child, where the organs have become unusable through infections. That's where the parents are told: Stay with your child, it's still alive, it somehow understands you, accompany it until the last, that helps later. In the same hospital you will hear from the treating doctors and the team in the event of an accident death or in the case of a comas after an accident: The child is dead, there are no more sensations and perceptions, the only thing you can do is decide whether you want to help someone else with an organ donation or not. You can go home quietly. – And that is exactly the point we need to discuss here. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] There is, of course, a recognised right to his own undistorted and individual death that each person has. And in many cases, one must provocatively say that this has already been defined today, namely the obligation of the organ donation. We stop dying with our regulation of the solution to the contradictions, we massively intervene in them, unsolicited. I'm addressing this now. Just and simply ask that we all move here in a medium-term discussion process where Germany is already. Let us discuss the resolution of opposition to the decision. In Germany it looks like this: There each insured person receives every two, three or four years – the deadlines I do not know exactly now, but at regular intervals – an information sheet with a consent form and a letter where he is asked to actively say yes or no to the case of cases. This is then entered in a central register. I think that a developed democracy, as Austria is, would be a good thing, and it would also lead us a little further, especially in terms of ethics and morality. I would ask you to get involved in this decision-making process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e10346	Mr Grünewald came next. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e10367	Mr President. Federal Minister! I understand some of what Mr Karlsböck has said, but it is not by law that dealing with people, a humane, a psychologically decorated relationship with people, with parents of children, as you have said. I think the Austrian Society for Transplantation has certainly issued recommendations in this direction, and I think it is more than necessary to provide support to parents of brain-dead children, directly and above all afterwards. This is certainly one of the most terrible events there are. Nevertheless, I would not like to put the current regulation at risk in Austria, but rather to improve the framework and the environment. I do not believe that the finding of brain death no longer corresponds to the scientific status of here and today, because the Austrian society for neurology and other societies has published modern methods and prescribed guidelines, and all these studies must be repeated after 24 hours, the studies must not be carried out by the transplanter, but by two different independent specialists in neurology. There are different methods, for example an angiogram; if a brain is no longer bleeding, it is dead. So you can measure the flow of blood radiologically, you can make EEG records, and they are all repeated, so that people with working or poorly functioning brains are transported from life to death, you can de facto rule out. These are not Wachkoma cases, where such things can happen once after years. In any case, the law is good, but the Society for Transplant Surgery has longed to care for the donors scientifically and naturally, politically, medically, especially in the case of live donors – mainly kidneys, parts of the liver or the bone marrow. If someone has only one kidney because he has donated one, he is naturally at risk because he needs this kidney, he needs it vital, except he wants a dialysis and then maybe later needs a donor. This project, I believe, has also failed in financial terms. I would suggest, however, that discussions be held with this society, and it may also be of interest to health insurance companies that these living donors do not suffer any damage, because they pay for it, they are liable, they also have the social system. tet. So we could find ways and means to build a register that takes all the needs into account. I am optimistic about this, perhaps you can intervene a little bit, Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e10409	The next item is the speech by Mr Spadiut. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e10431	Mr President. Minister! High house! The Organ Transplant Act implements the Quality and Safety Standards Directive for the human organs intended for transplant into Austrian law. This is about the area of living donations and their collection, the related records and the recording of serious incidents. A total of 673 organs of the deceased and 57 transplants of the living were carried out in Austria in 2011. It is foreseeable that the number of living donations will rise. It is important that the living donation of organs – mainly kidneys – is regulated legally, which means more legal certainty for the treating doctors and for the persons concerned. An important point has been taken into account with the introduction of the Life Donation Register. This provides for the important aftercare of the organ donors. The provision of a post-care programme and the financial security of possible negative effects of the organ donation effectively ensure the donors against risks arising from the organ donation. I think that is one of the living donors who makes an organ available to a fellow human being and thereby renders almost superhuman for society and the recipient.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e10461	The next item is Mrs Kaufmann-Bruckberger. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e10482	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! In Austria, about 1 100 people are intended for organ transplant, but a large part of this saving operation is no longer experiencing, the waiting time for an organ is unfortunately far too long for God. Despite the medical progress, donor organs are also strictly limited, which also means that too few are available. On the facts: In 2011, 673 organ transplants were carried out with organs of the deceased and 57 transplants with organs of live donors. As far as the number of kidney donation is concerned, it has been relatively constant for several years, but Austria with a share of about 15 percent is very much behind the Netherlands, Sweden, the USA and Switzerland. Of course, you can only live as a healthy person with a kidney, and especially if you can give a relative a better, a new life, you are willing to donate. But what if there's no donor? - Then there's only one way out, that's the dialysis. Dialysis is one of the most difficult and time-consuming therapies, and unfortunately God is limited in time. A next important point is the topic of organ donation after death. If you don't really deal with the topic of organ donation in the family, Then we push this question out very often. But if, due to an accident, there is a conversation between a family member and the doctor, it can very often happen that this does not agree to the withdrawal of an organ of the deceased. The Austrian doctors largely adhere to this wish of the family. We must not, however, wipe away from the table that there is a worldwide abuse, namely illegal organ withdrawals. Horror stories that you can also buy organs illegally, we have all heard before. Unfortunately, God is now a reality and not a horror story. This means that there is in any case too little information about the need for legal organ transplants or organ donations. We call for awareness of this issue, for more information to be given to the population. People need to be informed that in Austria one can rely on the fact that organ donation, organ withdrawal and also the transplant are strictly regulated by law. Even living donations are rejected if there is only the slightest suspicion that financial interests can be linked to the donation. In conclusion: We support all kinds of information and support the individual aftercare, the lifelong optimal medical care of living donors.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e10531	Mr Stöger spoke on a point of view. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e10552	Mr President. High house! We have again taken an important quality step with today's organ transplant regulation. It is about laying down the principles of the donation of the institution, the free will and the free movement of persons. With the Austrian model, namely that we have a register of objections to organ donation, we have clearly shown that we are achieving better results in Europe. With this law, we have also ensured that living donors and people who make living donations are protected in particular. Among other things, we have made it clear by law that a living donation of under 18-year-olds is not permitted. We have dealt with the fact that the protection of donors and recipients is given special priority. The rules on the aftercare of live donors have also been included in the legislation. To this end, we have also created an insurance system, or we have made the special protection of living donors in social security law. I think that this has made an important step towards improving the quality and care of the Austrian population. Mr President, if you allow me, I would like to do something special. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Today, we also change social security laws, and I have made myself today, because we do so to thank someone who has for many years contributed to the fact that Austrian social security laws and social security legislation have such a good position. I speak of Mr Karl Donabauer. Mr Donabauer has been involved in the farmers' social security institution for over four decades, in various self-government bodies, and when I am He has been responsible since the beginning of this social security institution. He has also assumed responsibility as their supervisor, and he has recently informed me that he is relinquishing this function. The successor has already taken place, and I allow myself to thank you from this place as a member of the Federal Government for your extraordinary achievements in this House too. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e10597	We can certainly join everyone in this thanks. We are pleased that our colleague Donabauer remains in his capacity as a Member of Parliament. The next speaker was Mr Hechtl. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e10622	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Appreciate High House! This Organ Transplant Act, which has already been implemented, implements the EU Directive. This will lead to uniform minimum standards at EU level in organ transplant. For me, an important part is that in addition to the quality and safety standards, the ethical standard also has an important point in this law. I think that it is particularly important to be voluntary and free of charge, so that there is no economic performance, no economic success from this transplant. For me, social protection is also very important if you provide organs for a transplant. Who's the cost? This has now been ensured, and the Federal Minister has already mentioned it, and there have been constructive forces in all areas of social security which have contributed to this law. I am thinking, for example, of the question of who carries the costs of transplanting for the donor, and that is now a health insurance benefit. After-treatment too is now a health insurance benefit, and that seems particularly important to me. However, it is also very important, and this has already been said, that if a complication occurs in a transplant – we hope it does not – insurance by accident insurance exists, a lifelong pension is possible. Dear ladies and gentlemen! With this Organ Transplant Act, it is expressed again and especially that we continue to stand for the best possible health care. We can proudly point out that Austria has one of the best health systems in the world. I think that precisely these two laws today, now the Organ Transplant Act and before this ELGA Act, are forward-looking measures, legal provisions which we have adopted here for the Austrian population, for which patients will decide or will decide. I would also like to congratulate the Federal Minister and all those involved, because it was certainly not very easy to reconcile these legislative instruments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e10665	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Mulder. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e10688	Ladies and gentlemen! To sum up, I think I can say that this explicit framework, which is being adopted today, is very essential. Risk-based after-supply is regulated, but above all the appreciation of people who donate organs is expressed by this possibility of insurance given. The fact that in practice this gets a higher priority can also be seen by looking at the numbers. The living donations mainly concern kidney and liver transplants, which has already been said. There are currently 57 organ donations from living people to 673 organ donations from deceased people. There you can already see what imbalances there are. Let me also say a few numbers or a few things to the organ donation of dead people, because there remains the solution to the contradiction, which in itself is a very satisfactory solution. The rate in Austria is about 20 organ donations in relation to 1 million dead people. This is similar to in Italy, France or Belgium. On the other hand, there is an approval solution in Germany, as it has already been discussed today, and there is the rate of 15 organ donations in relation to 1 million inhabitants. Therefore, last May, Germany passed a law, a comprehensive reform, where in future they call on the people to draw attention to the need to ask them in a postal fashion if they do not agree to carry out an organ donation after their death. But it is also interesting that this is very different geographically. Bremen, for example, has 60 organ donors related to 1 million inhabitants, Lower Saxony, i.e. 16 organ donors related to 1 million inhabitants. It will be interesting how here, when the first surveys are evaluated, the development is. I think that this is a good law, a good legal requirement for after-care, for the appreciation of the people who declare themselves ready for organ donation. And that, I believe, is a very essential thing, which is greatly improved with these conditions.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e10729	No one is reporting on this. I therefore conclude the debate. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall come to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 2: Draft federal law amending a Federal Act on the Transplant of Human Organs and the Federal Law on Hospitals and Health Institutions, the Medicines Act, the tissue safety law and the Federal Law on Health Austria GmbH, including the title and receipt in 1980 of the Supplements, taking into account the print error correction submitted by the rapporteur. I am looking for a sign for those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, for a sign. – That too is unanimous. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 3: Draft federal law amending the General Social Insurance Act, the Commercial Social Insurance Act, the Farmers' Social Insurance Act and the Civil Health and Accident Insurance Act, including the title and receipt in 1981 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, for a sign. – That too is unanimous. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[14:43:04]] 4. Point Report of the Health Committee on the Government Template (1898, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law amending the Medicines Act (1982 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e10805	We're now on the 4th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait. 3 minutes - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e10832	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The amendment to the Medicines Act implements European rules on a Community code and harmonised rules for the authorisation, monitoring and pharmacovigilance of medicinal products for human use. The resulting changes relate to almost all areas of our Medicines Act, including the concept of adverse reactions and the reporting of suspected adverse reactions, to efficacy and safety studies following the authorisation of a medicinal product, but also to the provision of information by the authorities and the information possibilities for the public. The European harmonisation efforts are based on the elimination of double-tracking both of the authorities of the Member States and of the authorisation holders with a view to strengthening the safety of medicinal products in Europe, in particular through enhanced cooperation between Member States. In addition to doctors and other health professionals, patients will be involved as active partners in the pharmacovigilance system in the future. Finally, the procedures for monitoring the medicinal products on the market are to become even more transparent. To this end, the European Medicines Agency and the competent national authorities will establish a corresponding Internet portal for medicinal products. In detail, the novelle extends the concept of adverse reactions to all undesirable drug effects, an obligation on the authorisation holder to conduct an active substance stem documentation, the management of a risk management system for each medicinal product speciality, an invitation to report side effects to the BASG, the obligation to link national and European portals, and to process all reports and reports on the European database as the only body. It is therefore a novel that brings benefits and greater safety to all those involved in the health system; a novel that we are happy to support.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e10872	Next speaker: Mrs Steibl. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e10893	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! As my previous speaker said, the amendment to the Medicines Act concerns the implementation of an EU directive. In concrete terms, it is about new risk management provisions for medicinal products already authorised and a new reporting requirement in the case of adverse reactions. In this context, I would like to point out once again the ELGA Decision, which provides for interaction and interaction tests to be carried out in pharmacies if the patient confirms his consent to the e-card transfer. This is also necessary from a technical point of view. However, an interaction check or an interaction check is technically impossible in the delivery by remote sales or via internet orders. Also, in retrospect, for example, when referring a prescription medicinal product via the Internet to the safety of patients, the composition cannot be checked. Therefore, all medicines that are important for e-card medication would be excluded from the distance selling system, because in Austria, too, the topic of ordering via the Internet is not foreign. Although there are campaigns to counter this and some press release, such as from the APA of 8.9.2010, where it says: Eliminate dangerous drug counterfeiting from the Internet. It is also tried to prevent counterfeiting through prescriptions or specifications for the design of web pages. However, the fact is that the market with the possibility of being able to give medicines over the Internet does not, as it were, stop drug counterfeiting, but makes them even easier to access. It is also a personal concern to me personally, Mr. Federal Minister, to ask you to keep an eye on this development more than just and in the future to make it possible for you to stop the low-cost order via the Internet by your place of business.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e10926	The next item is Mrs Dr Belakovich-Jenewein. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e10948	Mr President. Federal Minister! Very briefly to my previous speaker: Of course you are right, and it will certainly not be accepted by us in transit, only, Mrs Colleague, that is not the subject at all in this law that we are discussing today. That means you're a little ahead of your time. [[Abg. Steibl: Yes, we are always ahead!]] Now it is about implementing a European directive, so to speak, to implement the code on the pharmacovigilance of medicinal products for human use, which is to be implemented here. We will, of course, agree to this, because that is certainly something that makes sense. Of course, it also increases the safety of medicines, and that is why it must be approved. What you have now referred to, but what has already been mentioned, is, of course, something in the room, Mr Federal Minister, namely the shipment of medicinal products. I would ask you to consider this very carefully with the planned next novel, which will be in the house – whenever that will be, whether it will be in the next health committee or later – because you decided the ELGA a few minutes ago, the e-medication. That would have made you de facto again and cut it off, so that you could have saved the decision as well. I think that in Austria we should really have a pioneering role to play in the safety of drugs. In this context, it is really my concern to refer here to the excess quantities of so-called medical products offered in the supermarket, which are not only patches and associations, but are already medicines for oral use or medications to be used in the field of mucous membranes. There too, I think, one should seriously consider how one can create a law for the safety of patients in order to stop this exploding market in medical products, such as, in the context of a medical device law which cannot be completely separated from the pharmaceutical law, one can also find a way to find regulations here in the sense of people who often do not take something really harmful, but something completely pointless. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] This is something that I see as a thorn, especially because the number of such funds now, in the autumn season, is rising again and one has the impression that this market is increasing from year to year.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e10990	Next speaker: Mr Grünewald. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e11012	Mr President. Estimated Minister of State! Very short to the shipping trade. So I think it's a failure, you're ahead of the time when you're going after her. [[Demonstrative applause by representatives of the ÖVP.]] There seems to be a proposal from Mr Spadiut, and I hope that this concerns only the Internet trade of individuals. Here you could make a shipping trade that benefited from the hospitals, but he probably won't have meant it. I would, however, support it. There's something to be pushed on, because it's high time. What annoyed me a little about the reactions of the doctor's chamber to this law is the observation that in cases of blood transfusion, this must be paid to the doctors. When I do blood transfusions in private practice and not in the hospital, I find that almost shameless. This is so rare that a doctor may experience it every five years or every ten years. And to get that paid off is already a tastelessness, in my opinion. What's good about the law is that a risk management needs to be built up, because although medications are first tested on patient groups, if the authorisation has taken place, of course, a multiple to patients taking this medicine or one of those drugs. And, of course, there are other side effects that could not be recorded statistically otherwise, and that is important. If you think patients should also report these side effects, you really have to expect a high amount of time, because there are also random coincidences. So if someone who doesn't happen rarely eats a hacker in the Styria – that's also not rarely contaminated because it's not fried or cooked, but fresh – and he then has abdominal pain and says: Now I have a new drug, that hurts the stomach!, although it was just something different. So there I would be careful. I believe that this Federal Office for Health Security should also be financially equipped in such a way that there are no savings programmes there. Sometimes you get into a spasm that ultimately harms your health, your health system and your patients. That's what it would be like. – We agree to the bill anyway.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e11063	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Spadiut. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e11084	Mr President. Minister! High house! The purpose of the amendment of the Medicines Act is to take account of the amended EU Directive. The aim is to increase the safety of medicinal products in the EU through increased cooperation between EU Member States. Pharmacovigilance companies must present efficacy and safety studies and submit a risk management plan with the authorisation documents. In addition, new reporting requirements apply to pharmaceutical companies in relation to adverse drug reactions. In the information for use, the patient is asked to report suspected side effects. This will create additional costs of € 2.88 million for companies. The regulation is good, and we will also agree as there is greater safety of medicines. However, as with the safety of drugs, if the EU allows the transit trade or Internet trade of medicines, it will be possible to discuss when the presentation is on the table. Since there are many arguments against this trade, the BZÖ is negatively opposed to such a release. To underline this, I make the following request:
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e11145	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e11231	Mrs Kaufmann-Bruckberger is speaking as the last speaker on this item in the agenda. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e11252	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! This law is certainly to be welcomed in the course of pharmacovigilance. It should be noted that Member States will increasingly work together to prevent the introduction of counterfeit medicines into the legal supply chain. This, of course, also serves to protect the legal supply chain from counterfeit medicines. Fake medicines – we have heard them more often today – flood the market and there is no protection for patients. Adverse reactions may have devastating consequences. Another important point for us is, for example, the generics or the traditional medicines, where a safety report to be updated regularly is not available in the future. In this way, generics are practically upgraded, and that means at the same time a discharge of the health system. One point, ladies and gentlemen, is to express criticism, as did the doctor's chamber. It has criticized patients for having to report the side effects. The quality of these reports is certainly to be questioned, says the doctor's chamber, as the information content requires enormous follow-up through medical laymen. Although the administrative costs for entrepreneurs will be estimated at € 2.8 million per year, we are in favour of this draft law.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e11293	No one is reporting on this. I therefore conclude the debate. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote on the draft law and its title and receipt in 1898 of the supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, for a sign. – That too is unanimous. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We come to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Spadiut, ladies and gentlemen, on no distance selling of medicinal products. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. [[14:59:36]] 5. Point Report of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry on the 2012 Green Report of the Federal Government (III-352/1931 d.a.) 6. Point Report of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry on Amendment 1912/A(E) by Mr Gerhard Huber, colleagues in relation to Isel as a Natura 2000 protection area (1932 d.a.) 7. Point Report by the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry on Amendment 1412/A(E) by Mr Gerhard Huber, colleagues on the rejection of the 2011/0010 GMO Council decision in the EU Council of Ministers (1933, e.g.)
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e11387	We now come to points 5 to 7 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. Mr Jury has been reported to speak. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e11414	Mr President. Mr. Minister! High house! We are talking about the Green Report 2012, which I do not think deserves the expression “report”. [[Abg. Grill: Oh you!]] It is a fixed statement, a status quo of the missing Austrian, yes European agricultural policy, which is being carried out on the back of our farmers and our rural area. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If we look at this development, i.e. the farm mortality of the last 15, 16 years since EU accession – the decline from 240 000 to 175 000 farms – this is, I must say, worrying. It is particularly worrying for rural areas, indeed for the whole Austrian economy, taking into account that this proud peasantry and this peasantry are essential for our tourism industry and, in future, for rural areas. Mr Berlakovich, you will of course celebrate this Green Report with your party colleagues by the ÖVP as a “success model” but: It's not like that! If we are aware of the problems that our peasantry faces, then we can see that these are starting with the AMA organization. There are crazy problems for our farmers in the federal states of Carinthia and Tyrol in the alpine pastures. The management in the AMA, which actually does not exist, is only aimed at making the farmers' work as difficult as possible, with standardisations, certifications and with crazy bureaucratic expenses. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The AMA's task would be to support the farmers and, in addition, to ensure that healthy and safe food is available to the population. But what's the AMA doing? – The AMA is a dizzy club, I have to say quite honestly. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Huber.]] The AMA always says: Where Austria is in it, Austria must stand on it. That's a lie. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Although today it is produced with foreign goods in Austria and slaughtered here, the AMA seal is used. [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] – That is true, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP! Don't always say goodbye! This twilight should be stopped in the interests of Austria, our people and in the interests of food and food safety. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! For this Green Report, there is a five of our party, because it is the status quo of the farmer's death in our country. On the part of the liberals, I ask: We are not about a renationalisation of our common agricultural economy in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e11488	Next speaker: Mr Auer. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e11509	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I should like to thank all those farmers who, on this Green Report, provide the data, the facts, because this excellent document, which is produced by the officials of the House and various Commissions, provides us with valuable support and assistance. First of all, I would like to thank the farmers and, secondly, you who have compiled these facts and facts for this excellent overview. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, in addition, I can also mention: A Green Report, when positive results have been noted, may well be seen as a positive report, Mr Presidencies. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Jury.]] So that we can hold on to this and not pretend to be nothing at all. There's another need for you to catch up. Be calm, you can look at the documents, and then you will see that the last annual result was quite positive. And one thing I strongly reject, namely that the AMA is a dizziness club, ladies and gentlemen. We won't let that happen. Take note of that! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] If you already think that the AMA would fade, because the AMA claims where Austria stands, Austria would have to be in it, then I have to say: Learn the label of the seal of goodness and the various markings! Then you will know where the AMA seal is on it, is nothing but Austrian goods. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusions of the Abg. Vock.]] After such a long parliamentary period, you should finally know that. Or have you allowed these facts to pass by yet? [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] - May be, that's your thing. But no matter what. Ladies and gentlemen, we all know that the Green Report is something we are discussing, but that is no longer changeable in itself. That's fact. This is, in fact, the balance sheet of the last financial year and has also been quite positive, and we should also confess to that. This is due, on the one hand, to the This has been possible – which has also become quite visible on the basis of increased prices – and it has also urgently required agriculture to compensate for losses from previous years. This does not mean that everything is wonderful and beautiful – we know it ourselves – but because of the positive result of last year it was possible to compensate for the thirst of the previous years a little. How close joy and suffering lie together can be seen from the heury harvest results, which were excellent in one region of the country and in the other part of Austria, in the east, to say clearly, because of dramatic dry damage, frost damage and floods in many areas were disastrous. The storm damage of this year is around €120 million, of which about 300 000 hectares are affected. This shows how different a statistical evaluation can be: positive in a region, on the other hand critical and difficult in other regions. We should not forget, however, in the face of all the difficulties and perils of the political debate: I should like to thank the Federal Minister for the positive work he has done as the Federal Minister, because in the end there is a need for political frameworks to lead to such results. In this respect, we should also know that in the future, the key question will be the way in which the budget, the CAP financing, the provision of rural areas, the second pillar of rural development will be possible. On this occasion I am also expressly grateful to the President-in-Office of the Federal Chancellor that this is a priority, because, ladies and gentlemen, it is important that the government, the Federal Chancellor, Mr Vice-Chancellor, the responsible Minister for Agriculture and also the Minister for Finance, should do so, and we will support it. One thing I would like to say: It is always pretended as if the farmers were the biggest beneficiaries. It is exciting to look at the databases a little and see that some 128 million from the second pillar in 2011 have been flown into non-agricultural organisations. These are silent and quiet in the tourism sector, through companies, through economic sectors, through municipalities, via LEADER projects and so on and so on flowed on. But they're all going along, if it's said, the farmers are getting funding. In reality, many others do not receive insignificant support at all. It's true, too. I have nothing to do with ensuring jobs and employment. But one should have the courage to present this clearly and clearly.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e11616	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Pirklhuber. 6 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e11637	Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Jakob Auer, you have now, as it were, sung a song of praise on the Green Report, to the officials working there and to the farmers and farmers. I very much welcome the report itself. One is the analysis, and the Green Report is the analysis of the Austrian agricultural system if one is prepared to perceive, read, study this analysis at all. That's one. And that's where officials really pay our all thanks for this good work. There is a political instrument for this, as the employees of the green farmers are also represented within the framework of the §-7 Commission, which is working in preparation for the annual preparation of the Green Report. And in this body, green farmers are also sitting and trying to address and address also in reporting those points that are important, such as, for example, equality in rural areas, such as the issue of protein supply in Austria with non-genotechnic feed, in order to give two examples. [[President Mag. Prammer is taking over the presidency again.]] But, Mr Auer, the policy problem begins where, on the basis of these analyses, no consistent agricultural policy measures are put in place. First of all, the implementation of the recommendations of the Green Report by the Ministers is a good one. Secondly, and this is much more serious, you have addressed the income situation. Yes, I also believe that agricultural jobs must be placed at the centre of the agricultural policy. Why is this happening, please, isn't it? Why is not the work of the farm discussed in the context of the CAP discussion being discussed as a central political category? – No, the Minister goes to Brussels and calls for an even longer transitional period. By 2021, he intends to continue the unfair operating premiums in Austria. That's incredible! Mr Auer, what you are saying is exactly the opposite of what the Minister is doing. He wants to distort competition. The Minister basically wants to maintain an unfair agricultural system as long as it goes. And on the other hand, we will appear. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mr Auer, you also referred to the promotions. Who gets the promotions? “Standard”, January 2012, I read some examples: Raiffeisen Ware Austria: €2.91 million – no small farmer, Rural Training Institute Styria: €3.36 million, not even uninteresting, Agricultural Market Austria Marketing: €2 million. So the farmers are unhappy and are still waiting – Raiffeisen Ware: €2.91 million. [[Abg. Huber: How much does Raiffeisen get?]] That's the one side. The European Union's support policy, particularly in the field of direct payments, is urgently in need of reform. That is what we are waiting for, Minister. This is also scandalous, the Minister has not yet presented a single draft in the Committee on Agriculture, not one of his drafts, which he is so to speak, explaining in the “farmerszeitung”, to the public and to journalists what the future is. But in the Committee, he was not willing to involve the officials, that they would present us with the new programme, nor did he inform us in detail about the planned measures. I think that this is a kind of policy, Mr Auer, where you, as President of this House, are really called to do everything from this place so that we can do a detailed analysis in the Committee on Agriculture, both in terms of the first pillar and in terms of the second pillar and in terms of discussions with the experts, as we have been demanding for months. This is a conditional sine qua non if we want to make a little progress in this area. [[Abg. Ing. Schultes: Say something to Kocourek!]] Yes, the AMA and the control system. Mr Schultes, yes, I can say something to Kocourek: Fraud remains fraud, whether in organic farming or conventional, that is always the case, and we will work against it with all our strength. You can be sure of this, with all power against fraud and corruption, at all levels. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] To the AMA: I would like to say that the AMA control system is a state in the state. I was in Cyprus for two days now on the occasion of an exchange of chairmen of agricultural committees. Although I am only the vice-president of the committee, I am happy to do so. Commissioner Cioloş has made one clear. He said the bureaucracy is not us, because there are states that have two sides to fill in, and there are states that have such packages. And that's what he officially said in Austria. So if you want to exploit the EU here, you should go to the blacksmith and not to the blacksmith, and the blacksmith is in this case sitting in the ministry and in the AMA, and these gentlemen are sitting on a very high Ross. It is about how farmers are currently being treated in terms of the way in which they are controlled. We are always known as a control party, because we are positive about control, but it is about how. Human rights are almost already being violated. It is true that farmers are confronted with the fact that they were misinformed seven years ago, but they bear the responsibility for it because the chambers have misinformed them. So these are acts that simply cry out to heaven. And there you have to say quite firmly and clearly that we need a radical reform of this agricultural system. But you, Mr Minister, do nothing but defend the status quo, rather than finally start through and say, yes, the necessary changes are a positive signal, namely for agriculture, also for society. We want environmentally oriented agriculture. We want to expand, double, we want to develop rural areas, we want to use synergies and we want to strengthen cooperation between the economy, farmers and farmers. And that creates the future, that creates trust. What you're doing is bureaucracy, it's terror to farmers as it is, and it's simply unacceptable. And we'll work against it with all our strength, you can be sure. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e11707	Mr Schopf. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e11728	Madam President. Minister! My dear! Ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to begin by thanking, on behalf of our group, those who, like me, have made a very good and detailed report. Above all, I would like to thank the farmers very much for their work and also for the workers who work in agriculture and, above all, in forestry. Thank you all very much. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! One can speak of a very good year 2011 in agriculture with Fug and law, especially if one looks at the development of income. In the last year, incomes rose on average by 33 percent compared to 2010. If we compare here with other social groups, such as workers and employees, we see that the increase in income is not quite 4 percent. As a result, 33 percent mean a strong increase. [[Abg. Jakob Auer: Two years before: 28 percent!]] What you also need to see is that despite these 33 percent on average there are differences. There are groups of farmers, where the average income has increased by 38 percent. However, there are also groups of which I think they do a lot, for example in the context of difficult work on mining farms or organic farms, where the rise in income is unfortunately significantly below the above-mentioned value. Ladies and gentlemen! However, the Green Report also shows a number of difficulties, and a very large area is the so-called farm mortality. Three farms are closed every day in our Republic, and I think that is a very big problem. But the different funding systems that we have are also shown in this report, and I believe that a great deal of work has yet to be done to make it more just, especially in the field of funding. We strive to work for this justice. Minister! They are required to make appropriate preparations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e11774	Next speaker: Mr Huber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e11795	Madam President. Federal Minister! Because we just heard about the AMA. The Austrian AMA employs 591, so almost 600 officials. By comparison, the German BALM, the same institute, and Germany is ten times larger than Austria, the German BALM has 89 officials. You have to keep this in mind once. This AMA is really a state in the state. This AMA serves to pursue EIA power policy towards agriculture. In the marketing sector, where the AMA should successfully operate, it clearly fails. Of the € 18 million, which the AMA sends annually to forced contributions from its farmers, from their products, two thirds go into its own administration. There's nothing to talk about marketing at all. AMA Marketing should take an example of wine marketing, apart from the fact that this marketing system, as the AMA operates, is not covered by law at all. There were processes in Germany, where they had to stop immediately. [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich: That's not true!]] But very briefly: We also have two requests on the agenda today, with the Minister of State on 4 May. In February 2011, he requested that the EU Council of Ministers reject the decision to authorise further genetically contaminated maize species. Today, the ÖVP, the SPÖ vote against this request, the others are in favour. What do we have for agriculture in Austria today? – The consumer, if he buys bread today – whether organic bread or normal bread – receives 14 samples with 20 drawn samples throughout Austria, which are contaminated with glyphosate. This glyphosate serves only to make Raiffeisen make millions of profits and good business. We should look in Austria, Minister of Agriculture, at the fact that the consumer receives food without chemical additives, food without chemical bombs. This glycosate can be compared with chemical combatants, as experts in the committee have told us. [[Abg. Jakob Auer: Again!]] Federal Minister! We should produce products in Austria that are free from sprays and fertilizers, where not the nutrients in industrial food are missing as they are today. We have sick, we have weak plants; industrial food makes the entire population sick. Apart from that, we continue to import 600 000 tonnes of genetically contaminated soya. The AMA seal is a single disaster. Federal Minister! You are celebrating this Green Report. The Green Report is truly commendable, but if we bear in mind that over the last 15 years the EIA agricultural policy has been responsible for the closure of 70,000 farms, that is just an insanity. Farmers are desperated, farmers are disappointed, farmers are desperate. But what does politics do? [[New call for tender of the Abg. Jakob Auer.]] She's just self-advertising, she's only representing raiffeisen. We all together have to free agriculture from the black yoke of raiffeisen. Federal Minister! Finally, be prepared to make a policy of honesty, a policy that gives the farmer a future perspective! Let's finally get rid of the promotions! Make sure, Federal Minister, that this farmer's death finally ceases! No one understands that corporations receive funding in millions, but the small farmer remains on the track. The small farmer has to lock up because this ÖVP, because Raiffeisen wants only and alone away from the small farmer to the large industrial farmers. We are clearly against that. Mr Federal Minister, now on the request I have made concerning Isel. The Isel in East Tyrol is the last unobstructed river in the Alps, the last high mountain river, to which Mr. Hörl has said, on this river must be built power plants. [[Abg. Hear: With you the light is straight out!]] – It must be imagined once that this river is to be built, only with the district emperor of East Tyrol, Mr. Köll, who has the highest-indebted community from all over Austria, comes out of his debt mess. This is the wrong policy. [[I should like to congratulate the rapporteur and the Greens on his report.]] The demand was that the Federal Minister enter into discussions with the country to find a solution that these large-scale power plants – as Mrs Wurm says: [[Abg. May. Worm: The Isel belongs protected!]] ‘Isel belongs protected’. Now I am curious, Mrs Colleague, whether you will agree to my request today. You agree, finally protect the Isel! Federal Minister! Finally, let us make a policy for farmers and not for farmers.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e11887	Mrs Hellererer is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e11908	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! From Tyrol back to the Green Report: The §-7 Commission, which is doing excellent work, has already been mentioned today, whose analyses are then included in the Green Report and are also a good reference work for all those interested in it. In 2011, the §-7 Commission also gave three recommendations on promoting equality to Federal Minister Berlakovich. It has also implemented a number of them in this regard. A training series for the development of gender competence was held at the funding stations. There have been future conferences for LEADER programmes on equal opportunities measures. A competition for equal opportunities projects took place, the award ceremony last week. The Equal Opportunities Working Party has produced recommendations for the period 2014 to 2020, which are under discussion. Ladies and gentlemen! The management of agricultural and forestry farms is still dominated by men, but the proportion of women in agriculture and the proportion of farmers is increasing. According to InVeKoS data 2010, it is around 38 percent. This is very, very high in European comparison. The farmers see themselves as working women, as entrepreneurs. They also open up new sources of income for their businesses, especially in direct marketing. According to the current farmer survey, 60 percent of the area of responsibility of direct marketing is for farmers who are successful direct marketers due to their qualifications and, above all, their personal characteristics. Direct marketing is important in Austria, it is an agricultural sector with many facets – with economic aspects, when it comes to income acquisition and the combination of income, and also with social aspects: Jobs, self-confidence and traditional knowledge are behind it. The ecological conditions, which are particularly evident in direct marketing, are the small structures, the special races, the types of attitudes and varieties are worth mentioning; direct marketing is small. There are 12 000 farms that generate 10 to 50 percent of their agricultural income through direct marketing, 11 000 farms say they generate more than 50 percent of their income through direct marketing. According to accounting results, the production value was € 174 million. Ladies and gentlemen! In this area, women in particular are very active, this entrepreneurial potential of women in direct marketing ensures jobs and strengthens the rural economy. In order for this competitiveness and the innovativeness of domestic direct marketers and direct marketers to be further enhanced in order to ensure women's jobs, rural areas must continue to be equipped with sufficient financial resources in the future. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: But the Minister is not doing anything!]] The common agricultural policy and the financing of agricultural policy are currently under negotiation, ladies and gentlemen. There will also be funds in rural development, which will ultimately also cover direct marketing and women in agriculture. And that's where we urgently need success.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e11948	Mr Tadler has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e11969	Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! The quality seal discussion is a bit fluent, we have also returned from Tyrol. It is now about the environment and the water industry. On the whole, Mr Minister, in Austria, we are in the EU section with our water quality very well when we are talking about regional pollution of groundwater through agricultural land use, the mustard pits and the low-disposal systems and sewerage facilities which you have mentioned occasionally. the insecure landfills. Ladies and gentlemen! They're there, too. The handling of the most valuable resource we have, namely our precious drinking water, should be considered here. Another, unfortunately very current topic is flood protection and the cultivation of wildlife, like this week in Carinthia, in our southern federal state, in the Lavant valley, in East Tyrol, Gerhard Huber, or in St. Lorenzo, in my native country, in the Obersteiermark, these disasters require that we rethink. It is not only building in the so-called red zones, but above all political pressure and economic interests that must end. It is a question of responsibility, ladies and gentlemen, and of the fact that the people responsible are mostly there without responsibility. Especially the Federation, which is equipped with the competence of the Wildbach plantation, would have to prevent certain things. In the face of such terrible natural disasters, the call for our – and we have already discussed it today – federal army becomes loud again and again. Young soldiers are then shown very briefly by the media with a quick camera swivel. Our pioneers are in service for weeks. That's what you should consider. But back to our environment, to our water industry: Ladies and gentlemen! Let us be very careful and sustainable about our drinking water reserves! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e12020	Next speaker: Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e12042	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Today we are discussing the Green Report 2012. It's the 53rd one. Report and certainly the most comprehensive reference work in the field of agriculture and forestry and the economic and social situation of domestic farmers in the sub- and downstream area. Thank you very much and pay tribute to the staff of my home who have been excellent in preparing this report for decades and creating a large data base. He also shows pleasures – it was mentioned –: In 2011, there was a very positive income increase. That is to say to the address of all those who are talking about everything in terms of soil and soil here and who obviously are not seriously concerned with this issue. A 30 percent income increase shows that there is a positive perspective for agriculture, but also shows that the conditions in 2011 were very good. The weather has fit, the yields have fit, the production conditions have also been optimal. But this also shows the following: If you look at the income situation in agriculture and forestry over the time series, it is characterised by very volatile prices and shows that income is rising and falling, so that this positive plus 2011 is offset by the negative developments in recent years. Agricultural incomes are still below the average of employment income of employed workers. That means we have to do something there, and it also shows that the European Union's payments have a high priority. The premiums are very important with about 60 percent of this income, so it pays off. In this context, we must also fight for the budget, for the European Union's multiannual financial framework. At the same time, it must be seen that if producer prices in the agricultural sector rise, as is the case now, production resources also become increasingly expensive: Fuels, fertilizers, plant protection, labour costs. All of this, up to the feed, strains agricultural production. That is why there is also a need for a positive perspective. We've seen this year: This is where agriculture is worse. There were frosts in some regions, droughts and floods. It is expected that the income situation will again become a more difficult one. The AMA was mentioned. Mr Pirklhuber, speaking here of “terror” by the AMA to the farmers – you are here in agreement with a language which cannot be accepted. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Right! - Oh, my God!]] It's not to accept what you're doing here! [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] As you speak, other political groups speak. The AMA is an authority that has an order to fulfil. She has to deal properly with the farmers, that's no question. [[Abg. Jury: She doesn't!]] But “exercise terrorism” that you take this term into your mouth, that is immense! They are devalued by the work of the inspectors, who are trying to ensure that the resources we use on the national and national sides are used properly. The AMA is intended to serve as a service organisation for farmers. Common European agricultural policy and multiannual financial framework: The budget will be adopted at the end of this year. We are at the crossroads in Europe, whether agriculture should develop in the coming years towards an agricultural industry or in the direction of agricultural agriculture. We reject the agricultural industry. The farms are getting bigger and bigger, but we still have farmed family farms in Austria. I think this is a sensible concept. Yes, there is structural change and it is unfortunate when farms stop. But: Look Check the numbers before you paint horror scenarios here! We have small-structured agriculture in Austria compared to Germany, Denmark, Holland and other European countries. In comparison to the area, the German enterprises are two and a half times larger, the Czech five times, the Danish ten times. At the number of cows, at the number of pigs per farm, all farms around us are larger. That is, our agricultural policy has achieved that we still have a rural structure because we manage to serve markets, feed the Austrian population and produce special products. And that's supposed to be the way it is in the future. It is therefore important that we secure funds, in particular through rural development. It is the heart of the Austrian agricultural policy, in which is the investment programme. Each euro that a farmer receives will trigger investments of around €7 in the economy. We can need this in economically difficult times. We have in it the environmental programme for which we are praised throughout Europe. All those who say that our agricultural policy is nothing are answered: The environmental programme is an example in Europe. As we do, the European agricultural policy is to be. There is the mining programme where difficulties will be met, a LEADER programme where agriculture, tourism, the economy and industry work together in rural areas to create more jobs. The Wifo shows that the rural area in Austria is developing positively – not every single village, but under the line, the rural area is developing positively. That is why we want to continue this successful path of agricultural policy in the future. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Jakob Auer mentioned it: We have managed in the Federal Government to reach a close with the farmer's representative for the negotiations on the current multiannual financial framework. Austria can lose a lot of money because last year we have received disproportionately much money for rural development. What we have done, namely to ecologize agriculture, where farmers produce high-quality food, but also to look at the environment, now wants to imitate Europe. But it takes money to do that. It was important that we agreed that in the negotiations rural development has priority, that we strive for a sum of €3.8 billion in a 50 percent co-financing rate – that is essential – that we can then continue the projects for which we know and where we are successful. It has also unanimously decided that rural development should be taught by appropriate means, as has been the case so far. This is an important support in this way of our negotiations. If we did not, some 70 000 farms would be at risk and another 30 000 jobs in rural areas outside agriculture. We have always said that the means of rural development serve farmers, clearly, but they also serve jobs all over the world in order to preserve the vitality and viability of rural areas. On another point: Wildbach and avalanche cultivation has been addressed, including the floods of the last days in Austria, tragic events. It was important that the Federal Government put up additional money here to put in place emergency measures to help municipalities and countries, not only in Styria, but also in other federal states. [[As a result of this, it was not possible to find a solution to this problem. Dust.]] The aim is to protect people, to protect the good and the good. The flood protection facilities have prevented a lot of damage in Carinthia. These were the right steps, and we will further develop that. There's more money for that. To the Isel project it was said: You can only evaluate the project when it is fully planned. There is currently only one planning phase. Austria is top in territorial protection, 27 percent of our land area is protected in some form, 15 percent of which are Natura 2000 areas. That has a high priority. The last point: Freedom of genetic engineering. Contrary to horror reports that were previously spread here: Austria is free of genetic engineering in cultivation. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Huber.]] We have an agriculture that does not rely on genetic engineering. We want a self-determination right. We want to decide for ourselves what happens on our fields and fields. We don't want genetic engineering. We also want this to be guaranteed by EU law. A large number of countries are supporting us at European level. A few large states are still against this. It is important that we make a common effort so that we can guarantee the Austrian population: no genetic engineering in agriculture and no genetic engineering in our food. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e12122	Next speaker: Mrs Schönpass. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e12145	Madam President. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Although the present Green Report confirms a positive trend in prices and quantities for almost all agricultural products, we must not close our eyes to major problems. The funding is still very unfairly distributed. Large farms with a lot of space receive a lot of money, but small businesses only have little. The total number of farms continues to decline. In order for rural areas not to die out, there is an urgent need for countermeasures. The basic requirement is – as I stress the demands of the Chamber of Workers – not only to think of agriculture, but also of all the people living there with their needs in terms of employment and care. Therefore, in the reform of the common agricultural policy in Europe, I see an opportunity for the next funding period 2014 to 2020, as this will give rise to the possibility of redesigning rural development. I will not be tired to open the agricultural funds to the entire rural population, because it is not only about farmers, but also about missing social services, childcare, lack of infrastructure and much more. The rural area, ladies and gentlemen, is not only agriculture, but also, above all, the people who live there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e12182	Mr Doppler has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e12204	Mr President. Minister! High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! The Green Report 2012 provides an insight into the situation of the Austrian agriculture and forestry. 2009 was a bad year, which affected the income of the many hard-working farmers, and I do not agree, Mr Minister, that, as you said in the Committee and today, the prices for farmers in all agricultural products have increased in such a way that the very bad years, especially in 2009, have already been brought up again. What you really have to consider, ladies and gentlemen, is that many courts are left out. In 2010 there were only around 173 317 farms, which are 20 percent less than the last full survey in 1999. Even more worrying is the decline in the number of miners, ladies and gentlemen. If these farms are no longer managed, it looks dark for our country – not only in terms of tourism, but above all in terms of the environment, because the many hard-working miners make a big contribution to the environment, to the safety from natural disasters and natural hazards by managing the steep areas. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] That is why, ladies and gentlemen, we must make every effort to preserve the existence of the miners. The Green Report should remain a good reference work and not become a sad history book! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e12252	Mr Eßl has now been referred to. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e12273	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The Green Report is an extensive reference work with data, facts, developments that can be read, and I think it is a very positive report. The opposition is, of course, being tried to make it bad, but in one point I can even understand the criticism and displeasure of the opposition and, in particular, of the farmers, of the farmers, namely in terms of the feeding land foundations. For example, if a feed area has been identified by means of a control in 2010, a notice has been issued that the farmer has then used this area as a support basis for the next year and is controlled again in 2012 and is found less and then triggered by this control that the farmer has to endure repayments and sanctions even for those years in which the area determined by the first inspector has been applied for, then we must think about whether the legislation is fair and, if necessary, we should also amend these laws. [[Congratulation with FPÖ and Greens.]] [[Abg. Linder: Bravo, colleague!]] We have the opportunity to think about it accordingly in this round. I can see that the year 2011 was a very good year. This was also necessary, because in 2009 there was this very big knick, but the years 2010 and 2011 have not yet fully balanced. However, particularly in the Berghofkataster groups 3 and 4 is the income situation of the miners in general. She's very far back. And this is to be a task for the future – we are about half of the non-mountain farmers and one third of the productive areas of Austria – to set appropriate priorities in the common agricultural policy after 2014 so that we can improve the mining industry so that environmental programmes and investment promotions are also available for these areas.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e12314	Mrs Mag. Brunner is the next one to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e12335	Madam President. Minister for Agriculture! Ladies and gentlemen, seers and seers! First of all, briefly on Mr Huber's requests: We would both agree. It is not to be seen why one should not agree to a call for genetic engineering in plants. That is why we have the agreement to do so. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Dr. Strutz.]] I would like to congratulate Mr Huber very warmly on the second request concerning the conservation of the Isel as a Natura 2000 area, because he is obviously the first to understand the greens' access to hydropower. On this request we say, yes, let us look at this with the hydropower, but exactly where. Just the Isel is a real example of saying that there must be no intervention. This area is so safe that we have to keep it. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mr Minister, you would have had the opportunity to do something by finally making a framework, a plan on hydropower development, in which taboos and no-go areas can be very consciously defined. You have failed to do so, and that is why you declare yourself not responsible again and leave the expansion of the free economy. [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich: can enforce!]] – Mr Minister, you are now also responsible for environmental matters, so I would already see it as your task that you, as a minister responsible for it, take a close look at where the sensitive areas are and where we should prevent any intervention from taking place there. [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich: There were created sensitive areas and less sensitive!]] And you didn't do that. Now to the Green Report, for which I would like to thank you very much: He's always a good source of information. I would like to draw up two themes which have not yet been addressed, first of all animal welfare. There is a very good description in the Green Report of what is happening in animal welfare. What I am missing is the measures you are planning to improve animal welfare in agriculture as well. The second important issue, which is of course also related to agriculture, is climate protection. Climate change has a strong impact on agriculture, but agriculture is also one of the causes of climate change. The Green Report deals, in particular, with the issue of agrosprit; the only quota that overwhelms Austria, otherwise we miss environmental goals. This is also the only measure I have ever seen you fight for, Minister. I've always criticized you for not fighting. That is what you have done now, unfortunately, just for the wrong measure, because it is now clear – and the European Commission, which is not necessarily a climate protection organisation – that Agrisprit is not a climate protection measure. That is why I now ask you – two weeks before the start of the next climate negotiations – to: What measures do you really intend to take to protect climate, which climate action do you really want to take in Austria? The Climate Change Act has been in force for a year. There is not much in it except that by March of this year there must be measures to be implemented immediately. No measure has been known to us so far. That is, you don't even implement your own law, so I ask you: When will measures finally come, which are these, and when will you finally start implementing these measures? I think it is a great responsibility from the Austrian point of view to finally make climate policy. I find it very embarrassing that Austria leaves out so much. We would have a great chance if we were to become climate-protection pioneers again. At the end of the Kyoto period, you now have a great opportunity to re-establish climate policy in Austria. We have always criticized the fact that the entire environmental budget is blocked by the purchase of the certificates. This now falls away, and you would have the opportunity to take this money into your hands and, indeed, to make environmental protection in Austria once again. What's going on? – You give up on this money! – Climate protection and agrosprit are also a subject in the Green Report, and if you want to make climate protection, you also need money for it; apart from buying the certificates now, so that you don't have to implement any measures. [[Interference of Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich.]] I call on you to finally make an active environmental policy in Austria again. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] To do this, you need money – and you do not give up this money! That is why I am absolutely of the opinion that Austria urgently needs an independent, strong and committed Ministry of the Environment.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e12414	Mr Mag. Schickhofer is the next one to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e12436	I congratulate all farmers, who made it through their efforts to work, through their labor, and through their innovative power, that the income and wealth situation in 2011 has greatly improved. Nevertheless, there are massive differences in income and wealth among farmers. We Socialists and Socialists are also committed to more distribution justice in the field of agriculture, so I would like to look at the wealth situation presented in the Green Report. Unfortunately, I know relatively few farmers, who on average have over €382,000 assets, few farms and forests, which on average have over €486 000 assets and on average have a total of €66 000 funds available. In other words, there must be very, very many who have little money, and many who have 120 000, 130 000, 140 000 euros of money. If we use public funds per holding of 18 € 180 per year and on average increase the funds by €5 600, i.e. 31 percent, we have to consider whether the funds used really achieve those objectives that we want to achieve with agriculture policy also from the point of view of distribution justice and equal opportunities. I would ask you, Minister, to present the wealth situation in the next Green Report much more differentiated and precise. We know from the general budget asset report that 50 percent have less than €76 000 total assets. That is why, I believe, a differentiated presentation is necessary in the field of agriculture. I urge you once again to motivate your farmers, not to build up their money, which has increased by 9.3 percent, but to invest in the farms. We need public funds for agriculture, but primarily for investment and for small farmers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e12476	Mr Linder is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e12497	Madam President. Minister! Dear Members! Dear colleagues! Mr Eßl's statement fascinated me. Maybe something happens, but I don't trust to say more about it, I've had enough AMA tests this year. - That's what's going on. I'll be careful to say something about it. The Green Report consistently provides a good witness, a good witness for the year 2011, because the prices and the quantities voted, but we already know today that the situation for the year 2012 is quite different. I believe that we should take the areas that we cannot influence – quantities, weather, above all, Prei-se – as they are, and look forward to, but we should take those areas out of the report which we can very well influence and take to heart. From 1999 to 2010 20 percent fewer businesses! . I am right, Minister, that many small farms with one, two hectares were there, which were no longer able to withstand the competition, but we are now going in this direction that farms with 20, 30 hectares, with 40, 50 pieces of cattle are no longer viable. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I think this is a development we should already be thinking about, when we know that precisely these farms are responsible for our rural diversity, for our landscape care, but they are also improving our product range and are ready to directly produce and sell directly, which are also resistant to weather influences in themselves, unlike a 100, 150-hectare operation that loses everything with a stroke because the weather does not fit. I think here we should put the lever on and do everything we can to ensure that these small farms get a basic promotion, one, as we always say, to withdraw promotion limit or to make the promotion degressive, because I think that 10 hectares of management will cost more per hectare than at 100 or 150 hectares. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] [[Abg. May. Worm: (in the direction of Abg. Dr. Strutz) That's country!]] – But someone doesn't know about it now, but you can't do it for it, okay! [[Abg. May. Gaßner: This has nothing to do with you, who speaks to the Huber!]] In order to also bring a “beautiful” example, Minister: I was with you a little more than half a year ago with the concern of a farmer who had four cows and for these four cows because she submitted a report a day too late, lost €800 promotion. When I asked her: Burgi, did something happen?, she said: No, I didn't even get an answer, but obviously, if the homepage costs €4.39 million, for a small farmer like me can't be 800 € in it! – That should give us some thought. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I also believe that we need to reduce bureaucracy, especially for the small farmers. I have already shown you the form of direct marketing notification in the Committee last time, Mr. Minister! Today, if you slaughter pigs and market them directly on the farmer market, you have to report more than five pieces and pay 75 cents per pig in the quarter. That means you have to report in paper form for six pigs, you have to pay the amount, make a transfer, the AMA has to process it. So I think we have to put on the lever, we have to raise the boundaries, simplify the bureaucracy. If we succeed in doing something, we will be able to secure the existence of small farmers, we will be able to maintain small-structured agriculture. We don't need to be with Denmark, we don't need to compare ourselves with the Czech Republic, we don't need to compare ourselves with Germany, because we really have one through the rural, through the mining area – yes, but then we have to make every effort to make it comparable within Austria that we support and keep the smaller ones. [[Interference of Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That should be our goal, then the farmers will continue to stay on their mountain and manage their 10, 15 hectares.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e12585	Next speaker: Mr Gahr. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e12609	Madam President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) High house! The Green Report 2011 shows that agriculture is making a significant contribution to our country's work – 530 000 jobs in sub- and downstream areas are secured – that Austria's agriculture makes a major contribution to an intact environment – Austria's agriculture produces more environmentally friendly and sustainable than many comparable countries – that Austria's agriculture makes a huge contribution to healthy and high-quality food – 21 575 farms operate organically – and that Austria's agriculture also makes a major contribution to ensuring safe and sustainable energy supply when it comes to maintaining and maintaining forests, especially, naturally, the forests. To Mr Huber's request: I think the issue of Isel has been discussed for years. From my point of view, the request does not reflect much. There is an intensive dialogue between Vienna, Brussels and Tyrol, the authorities have been examining for years. It's about this mean tamarisk, and you know, the experts don't agree when you read these opinions through. I did not discuss with the mayor you mentioned, Mr Huber, but with an Iseltal mayor, and they see this very, very critical. The population has also been involved: In the popular survey – and this is known to you as an East-Tiroler – consent was given by the population, so that was a basic decision. I think you should take that seriously. [[Abg. Huber: How much budget?]] We also need to think about the following: Osttirol has over a third of the areas in the nature reserve. Additional Natura 2000 areas would also make it difficult for municipalities to create housing in the Isel valley and to implement designated commercial areas. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Huber.]] That is why, Mr Huber, you have to think so that you don't cut off East Tyrol economically, because the statements you made here today are extremely worrying from my point of view for the East Tyrol economic location – and you know your region. That's why I advise you: Go into the dialogue with the communities, go into dialogue with the people, and then you will come to reason! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e12649	Next speaker: Mr Vock. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e12671	Madam President. Minister! High house! If you read this Green Report, the world of our farmers really seems to be in order. Farmers reach a high level of self-sufficiency for Austria. For cattle and calves, we still have a self-sufficiency rate of 145 percent. [[Abg. Huber: That's not true!]] It is 108 percent for pigs, 90 percent for chickens and 156% for milk. [[Abg. Huber: And by the grain?]] – I am now only talking about animal husbandry in Austria. It is also interesting that annual consumption per capita in Austria has remained constant for years. We arrive at 18.2 kilograms per head for beef, 56.3 kilograms for pigmeat, 20.5 kilograms for poultry and 88.9 kilograms per head for milk. However, if you read on in this report, you can see that imports of meat and animals are increasing. Then I wonder: Why does it increase if we have such a high degree of self-sufficiency? The import of live animals increased from 192,1 to 216,3 million € – i.e. by 12.6 percent; meat and meat products from 744,6 to 83,9 million € – plus 11.6 percent. Again: despite a high degree of self-sufficiency! In milk and dairy products, we have an increase of 608.9 to € 660.4 million – plus 8.5 percent, with a self-sufficiency rate of 156 percent. Why does the import increase? [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich: Because we also export!]] – Because we also export, says the Minister. That means I'm reading the same numbers in the export? I don't think so. I think, unfortunately, that the true figures can be found here. For example, if you look at the terrifying numbers of cattle farmers, the drop from 82,906 in 2005 to 69,586 in 2011. That is, every sixth farm has been closed in the last six years. [[Abg. Singer: Debt is the grill!]] Mr Minister, you have said here that the Green Report is a success. That every sixth cattle farm is closed is a success for you? Mr Minister, you are proud to have said this today. In pig farming, it's even worse: In 2005, it was still 54,356 pigs, and in 2011 it was only more than 30,941. Practically every second pig farmer has been closed in the last six years. That's what you call a success, Mr. Minister? – Thank you! [[Inter-call at BZÖ.]] I also asked about the massacres – for example, since every tenth pig slaughtered in Austria is imported from abroad – whether the Minister of Health can ensure that it is then sold as foreign and not domestic pig. He called for a new consumer information regulation to be introduced in the EU Council of Ministers. He assured me that, in parallel to these negotiations at European level, an initiative will also be launched in Austria aimed at improving the protection of consumer fraud. However, if the aim is to ensure that the Minister of Health wants to provide fraud protection, that means that consumers in Austria are currently being deceived. We buy Austrian pigmeat, and actually it is imported pigmeat. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr Auer said that the AMA seal is the seal of quality for Austria, and that makes it certain. I have here a broadcast of the “consumer” from August of this year, in which the criteria of the AMA seal stand: ‘The national colours (e.g. Red and white red for Austria, blue for the EU) as well as the lettering in the inner circle of the sign – e.g. “Austria” for Austria – point to the area from which at least two thirds of the raw materials come ( ) – two thirds, but not 100 percent! That is, I do not guarantee the consumers that Austria is also inside where Austria stands. Mr Minister, I urge you to finally take measures to protect the state of our farmers. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] We cannot keep up with EU mass animal farming. Only high-quality production – taking into account animal welfare – warrants higher prices and helps our farmers achieve higher yields.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e12765	Mrs Binder-Maier has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e12786	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! For me personally, this Green Report is indeed a very extensive reference work with many data, figures, information. And I found him extremely interesting and exciting while reading through and found many details that I did not know. When I browse and read through, I came across a reference to a research work by the Bundesanstalt für Miningnfragen (Federal Institute for Mining Questions) under the motto “Gender Mapping”. The importance of Gender mapping for rural areas in Austria is that data are broken down and presented by gender and region, thus ensuring the creation of a data base in which gender as well as regional specificities and differences are presented. This overview shows clearly how the co-existence of the sexes in rural areas actually works and how the living situation of the people looks. Exciting is the findings of the authors that while many measures have been taken in the field of childcare in rural areas, women are still mainly caring for their children personally, which is in fact an obstacle to the reconciliation of work and family, for the participation of women in the professional world. [[Abg. Singer: But the children benefit from it!]] It is still very clear that the rate for childcare facilities in rural areas – and it is shown that many initiatives have been implemented – is 80 percent, but the rate of facilities in which lunch is administered is less than 20 percent. That is to say, ladies and gentlemen, we still have a lot of rethinking needs, and we will improve this situation for women, for children with united powers.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e12823	Next speaker: Mr Jannach. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e12844	Madam President. Federal Minister! At the outset, I would like to thank Mrs Eßl very much for his clear words on the alms. As an opposition, we do not need to make any more comments here, we do not agree with your statement on the Alpine location of the agricultural market in Austria and we ask the Minister, if he does not listen to us, to listen at least to his own fellow Members. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We also support your statements on income development in the mining area. There too we are completely d’accord: The income development in the mining area is disastrous. Mr Minister, I have to ask you: Have you ever considered how many farms have closed the doors during your term of office? That has been more than 15,000 farms since 2008. You cannot go there and speak before the plenary of a successful agricultural policy. What's happening here, that's farmers' deaths. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Another number from the Green Report. The Green Report will be revised by the Ministry, as everyone knows, but there is little to do because the figures are simply open. Let us look at the development of dairy farms over the last 10 years: In 2002, there were 56 700 farms, 37 000 farms in 2011. Exactly 33 percent of dairy holdings have locked up in the last 10 years. Going here and talking about a successful and sustainable agricultural policy is a blow to the face of every active and working farmer. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I would also like to comment briefly on Mrs Hellerer's comments. She said that 40 percent of farmers are run by women. This may be true of statistics, but in practice it looks like the man goes to work and leases the business to the woman. The man then makes agriculture the same way. These are business leaders who raise the quota to 40 percent. You know that very well. Many have leased their business to the woman to make them cheaper for tax purposes, because they have to work on the side-up, and that is why we come to a quota of 40 percent. [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich: Nevertheless, she is the manager!]] Listen Please, open with these fairy tales! Just imagine that as it actually is! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Now I would like to address one point because the Minister has said that if the agricultural budget negotiations start badly, 70 000 farms will have to be locked up in Austria. That is more than 50 percent of the Austrian companies. I agree with him that we must fight for the money for agriculture. We all have to fight together. I also understand his cry, because I expect a Minister of Agriculture to fight for his professional group. But last year, this Federal Government, also with you, Mr Minister, decided on a package of savings, and I would like to remind you once again how much it has cost the farmers. And that's where I ask you: Where, then, was your call for the decision to remove the agricultural diesel?, €50 million simply footsaw, removed from the farmer; or in the increase in the contribution to social security – €85 million by 2017 in addition to the already high loads; or in increasing the contributions of agricultural and forestry farms – according to information Ministry of Finance €10 million additional burden. In addition, the unscrupulous redeployment levy, which the Minister says will bring 250 million € per year to agriculture. There, Minister, I'm expecting a call from you! And that is why I think it is a lie to say here that if Brussels does not have the money, then there will be so many farms locked up, but in your own house the farmers will be as massively burdened as you did last year. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] A little more basic: The Green Report, which I have already mentioned, is being edited by the Ministry of Agriculture. Numbers are partially omitted, partly processed. Let's say it politely: He's being executed the way he fits the Ministry of Agriculture. [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich: This is an understatement!]] But there are also reports which are in the plenary session, which the Minister unfortunately always fails to do because he is not responsible for the Court of Auditors. There are two reports which the Court of Auditors has produced, not on the situation in agriculture, because the farmers work decently and honestly, but on the work in the ministry. These reports will be communicated to the Assembly shortly. The report on the LEADER programme has already been prepared. This is an agricultural and agricultural programme, where there is no reprocessing of pure mismanagement, no control, no project objectives. In the LEADER project, the Ministry of Agriculture has often been certified by the Court of Auditors with waste of money and mismanagement. The second, that's the acquaintance, is the audit of the Ministry. I mention only briefly the homepage, €4 million, then the self-marketing, €30 million – €30 million in the last five years only for the counterfeit of the minister in the newspapers. This is not the agricultural policy that we are imagining. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] By the way, as an advance notice, there is a report of the Court of Auditors on the Public Health Programme, where massive abuses in the Ministry and the Ministry are also revealed. Mr Federal Minister, I would like to ask you: Take advantage of the last months of your term of office to stop this sinterous mismanagement, this friendly economy in its own field! This still helps farmers most effectively.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e12932	Next speaker: Mr Mayer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e12954	Madam President. Estimated Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Mr Jannach! How can we measure the success of the agricultural policy? How do you do that best? Do you look back? You look at yourself and say 10 years ago everything was better? Or are we comparing with other Member States in Europe? And there's so much we can show. We have the “recentest” agriculture, we have most farm leaders under 45 years of age. We have the largest share of organic farming compared to other Member States. And: Show me a country that has, for example, changed milk production to GMO-free! We were very successful, not least because of the active farmers who are very motivated to pursue their work. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] But now back to the Green Report. It has already been mentioned several times the positive result with more than 30 percent income increase. Mr Schopf – I think he is not in the hall at the moment – has made the comparison with the income increases of an employee. I think the comparison is limping, because it would have to be presented for several years, and we know very well that the income increase of 30 percent has not yet made up for the decline since 2008. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Huber.]] One point I would like to highlight is the economic power that agriculture has. Austrian agriculture invests € 2 billion in the year. In other words, an operation takes in €23,000 annually and invests this sum in the regional economy. That's a very special performance. Mr Schickhofer mentioned this again today, he has already done so in committee, so I would like to address it: The cash assets of the companies have increased. I believe that this perspective is a little technically wrong, because it would have to be used as a percentage of the equity capital of enterprises, which has fallen. This shows that businesses invest, not least through structural change. [[Abg. May. Schickhofer: The change in equity is positive at €12 000!]] – In percent! The equity ratio of the holdings relative to the value, as in the case of a balance sheet, should be represented. But we know very well that this has come about because the enterprises are investing a lot, and investment promotion is very, very important because we know that many investments are still in place. However, we know very well that in the current funding period, the funds for investment support have already been used up. That is why it is very important that in the new period the second pillar for investment promotion is accordingly equipped. If you've been listening to the Chancellor this morning, you'd like to think he understood what it's all about. And I hope he does it until 22 or 23. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e13004	Next speaker: Mr Sacher. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e13026	Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! A few remarks on water protection: Unfortunately, the studies carried out since 1991 of our rivers and groundwater continue to show regional loads, particularly by nitrates and plant protection products. The cause is intensive agricultural management and use. As a representative of Lower Austria, I would like to point out that especially the north and east of Austria, in the special Lower Austria, are particularly burdened, and I therefore appeal to the understanding of our agriculture that the use of chemical resources is essential. This problem has been further aggravated, especially by the low rainfall poverty. The few streams of the wine district and the rivers of the forest area have shown very little water management in recent months. The nitrate load has gladly decreased from 2006 to 2007. Since then, however, the values have risen again, and roundly every 9. Measuring point one that exceeds the thresholds. That is why the appeal, Federal Minister, is that you carefully monitor the Nitrate Action Programme, the relevant EU Council Regulation and the Austrian environmental programmes with all their compliance rules. We ask you to do so, or we will support it. In order to ensure that water quality and thus quality of life for the coming generations are guaranteed in the problem areas in the east and north of Austria in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e13059	Next speaker: Mrs Königsberger-Ludwig. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e13080	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) The Green Report is really a reference work from which we can read out a lot of data, which is also very important for the work in the Committee on Agriculture. I have chosen a subject on which I would like to talk briefly, that is the overview of production and the markets – and especially with regard to the grown maize. They all know that maize and bees, which are bound to bees, are a major concern of the Social Democratic Group so that bee dying can be a little off the line. If you look at the Green Report, you can see that there has been an enormous increase in maize cultivation in the last year. With the so-called corn maize, there is an increase of 25 percent in the harvest and an increase in the area by 8 percent, and with the so-called wet maize, production volumes could be increased by 13 percent for the silo or green maize. I think this is good, I think it is positive for farmers who work in this sector. On the other hand, I would like to remind you again that also because of the maize cultivation, our bee peoples are dying out. We have set up a Subcommittee of the Committee on Agriculture on this issue - on pesticides - and I would be very pleased if we could jointly find a solution on this committee to this great problem. The problem of pesticides – especially the neonicotinoids – is to be addressed when bee dying. Although this does not directly have something to do with the Green Report, I think that since these areas of cultivation are being extended so and I or we have the impression that bee dying is not taken so seriously, I would like to take this opportunity, my contribution to the debate, and to pay attention to this aspect in this debate today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e13120	Next speaker: Mr Huber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e13141	Madam President. Federal Minister! Mr Gahr just said that the Isel project had been voted on in total osttirol. [[Abg. Gahr: two municipalities!]] That's an absolute lie, colleague Gahr. It was only voted in the municipalities of Virgen and Matrei. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Gahr.]] If we had voted in total osttirol, the vote would have been quite different. Very briefly: In my opinion, this Federal Minister is entirely of the role. The example was already in the Committee: When I asked him how much the hail insurance from him gets from the budget, he said: Nothing! The Chairman of the Committee on Agriculture had to correct him and say: Mr Federal Minister, that's not true, it's very much 13 million annually. [[Interference of Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich.]] If a Federal Minister comes here and sells it as a success when 70,000 businesses have had to be closed over the past 15 years because their existence was no longer secured, this is a single futility. The fact is: The Federal Minister has said that in Austria we have foods that are free from genetic engineering. – That too is untrue. We import 500 000 tonnes of genetically contaminated soy each year. We feed this soya to our farm animals, and this meat, these foods get man one to one on the plate. [[Interference of Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich]] It's just an insanity: We import 200 000 pigs live each year. That's all this slaughter animal transport. Our agricultural policy is responsible because our farmers are no longer able to produce cost-effectively. These imported pigs receive the Austrian viewing stamp – AT – and are sold as Austrian products. [[Call the ÖVP: Don't vote! This is a lie!]] When you go here and say, Let's compare our Austria with abroad! – Yes, let’s compare, Minister of State! In Italy, farmers get 50 percent more for the products, and for the diesel they are exempt from the mineral oil tax. In Germany, they get back 26 cents per litre of diesel. What do you want to compare? And when you read the Green Report: We're not autark anymore, not even with cereals. Today we only produce more than 88 percent of the grain we need for daily life. And the Federal Minister goes here and demands E10. Good night! Quit this policy, otherwise you will be driven out by the farmers!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e13210	With all the warmth and emotionality of the debate, I must first of all warn. The terms “of the role” and “fearness” are not appropriate in this place, Mr Deputies! In the case of repetition, I grab hold of the instrument of the call for order. [[Unrest in the hall.]] The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Gaßner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e13261	Madam President. Federal Minister! To follow this discussion is really exciting, and what is being spoken of here – now I have to be very careful not to get a call for order – is hardly to be believed. One thing I have to repeat: The first speaker, that was colleague Jury, spoke about his wish for the “renationalisation” of agriculture. – What does that mean? Please explain this to us, Mr Colleague. Is that what you're against the farmers? Does that mean we're getting out of the EU? Is that what we are providing for Austria ourselves? – So, I really haven't heard such a nonsense in the whole debate yet. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] - I'm sorry, I'm taking back the "fucking" thing. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Jury.]] We now have to discuss a Green Report which has been relatively difficult to deal with today by many sides, but which has been praised again and again. Mr. Federal Minister, it is time and again that our farms are locked up. I do not want to repeat this at all now, but what is very touching to me is the fact that those who stop are miners, that those who stop are auxiliary farmers, that those who stop are small and medium-sized farms up to 30 hectares, and that the farms have more than doubled over 100 hectares. [[New call for tender of the Federal Republic of Germany Jury]] There is something wrong with agricultural policy, because we will not believe that we can play in the big Europe, with more than 1,000 cows, pigs, et cetera, hundreds of yokes being managed at the farms you spoke about earlier. – We can’t do that, and I think it’s high time we rethink our philosophy that we’re generally rethinking agricultural policy. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: the renationalization!]] The same applies to income. We can now easily argue whether the 33 percent increase in income among farmers is a lot or a few. We should look at this once on a long-term basis and then perhaps compare it with the income of the self-employed. That's what it looks like. So these comparisons should not be made. And when you talk about the distribution of funding – even that has already been said several times today –: It is interesting to note that the number of beneficiaries will decrease, but the number of beneficiaries who receive over €50 000 will increase. In my opinion, too, this is a misdevelopment, Mr Federal Minister, and we should be very urgently set up in order to take new ways if we want to secure our farmers' survival – and thus we also want to secure a beautiful landscape so that we also want to secure decent, high-quality food. Colleagues Auer has said that there are so many promotions in all other areas. Mr Auer – he is here right now – I should like to ask you to put this issue on the agenda of the Committee on Agriculture, wherever other funding goes, so that we can take a very close look at who, in addition to the farmers who need it urgently, is really being promoted.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e13318	Mr Ing. Schools are reported on the word. You are aware of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e13342	High house! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr Huber has given many adventurous statements of his own, which I will not repeat all. [[Abg. Huber: All the truth!]] I have to repeat a statement: He said that pigs from abroad were slaughtered in Austria and then placed on the market as Austrian meat. – Of course that’s not true! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Huber.]] [[Counter-call of the Abg. Jakob Auer.]] The AMA seal is one that ensures Austrian origin, and it is only granted if the animal has been born, raised and slaughtered in Austria. The same applies, of course, to the Austrian organic mark. You should finally remember that! - That's right, you talked about the viewing stamp. [[Abg. Huber: I did not talk about the AMA seal and not about the bio-seal!]] It is not an Austrian sign of origin, nor does it give a right to indicate any origin, but that means that according to Austrian criteria it was slaughtered. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber.]] And you'll have to get it sometime. The consumer mark is the AMA seal.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e13424	No one has made any mention of this. The debate is closed. No final word on the part of the reporting is desired. We shall come to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 5: Proposal from the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry to take note of this report III-352 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of taking note of it to give a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall also proceed to the vote on agenda item 6: Proposal from the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry to take note of its report in 1932. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this. – This is accepted by a majority. Finally, we shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 7: Proposal from the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry to take note of its report in 1933. I also ask those ladies and gentlemen for a sign in the event of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. [[16:31:27]] 8. Point Report of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on the Government template (1843, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law amending the Geodata Infrastructure Act (1965 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e13494	We're on the 8th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. We are going into the debate. First of all, Mr Hornek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e13524	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! With the amendment of the Geodata Infrastructure Act, the scope of the Act is limited to the implementation of the Geodata Infrastructure Directive, in short INSPIRE. Austria has completed the directive in the past, and thus geodata from the lowest level of administration were collected and maintained, among other things, by energy and water suppliers or public transport companies. This amendment ensures that you are only required to provide geo-data services if they are also required by law. What are geodata, and what are they used for? – Geodata means digital information, with which one can assign a certain spatial location on the Earth's surface. One distinguishes between primary data – these are obtained immediately – and secondary data, which are data that have been processed and are then available to base 1. The geobased data are usually provided by countries and communities. Geological data, on the other hand, come from different spatially related specialist databases. When these data are summarized, they can be presented relatively clearly in a geoinformation system. A very positive example of this is the geoportal of the country of Lower Austria. Here you can view high-resolution images with various settings. This allows you to ask for land borders, floody areas, terrain heights, but also castles, castles, mountain bike routes or truck bans. Thus, the broad use of this database is also explained. Speakers, house builders, holidaymakers and people interested in it can retrieve this data material. Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, special protection of personal data is extremely important, and this is also essential to ensure. It should not be a basis for people who lead unfair people in the shield. In the context of the common environmental policy within the EU, it is important that information – including geodata – be available for the definition and implementation of environmental objectives. In order to enable the inclusion of these data for environmental protection, the information between users and providers must be coordinated, and data from the various sectors must also be compatible. Ladies and gentlemen! Geodata are everyday in agriculture, a matter of course, aerial images for farmers, where controls are carried out in the course of various control facilities, a matter of course. I also expressly point out that Austria is the country that by far has to make the lowest repayments, because farmers are working very precisely with this important instrument. Mr Gässner said earlier that what President Auer has mentioned was perhaps to be questioned and discussed. Mr Gaßner, I agree. In the case of payments for rural areas, this should be made clear. to differentiate and not to represent permanently as if this were agricultural support. In order to allow a look behind the scenes, I can only mention a few organisations and a few amounts of money, which makes it understandable why farmers cannot agree to this lump-sum accusation. The Austrian Nature Conservation Federation has received € 469 944; the Arge NATURSCHUTZ € 375 000; the Nature and Wild Park Buchenberg € 1 185 000; Nature Project and PlanningGmbH – whoever it is – €502,000; Land government/natural protection department €972,000; Department of Nature Conservation Land Tirol €955,000; the highly appreciated environmental roof association €269,000. That is why I am very much of the opinion of Mr Gaßner that this should be discussed and considered very carefully. It may also be necessary to establish the same strict standards for the control of these facilities as they are of course in agriculture. – Thank you for the attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e13595	Mr Mag. Auer is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e13616	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister! Mr Hornek has already referred a little to this EU directive with the English abbreviation. What's this about? – The aim is to create a European spatial data infrastructure within the EU – normable and comparable. It is important that it can be the best possible way to exchange geodata. Only in this way can cross-border and environmental policies and other policy-making activities be very well coordinated. It is therefore very important to standardise the data so that they can be used and understood and read across the EU. In addition, I would like to say that it is also important that we go a whole way towards Open Government Data, so that there is administrative data that is freely accessible and is to be made automatedally processable. This will allow new applications and services, which will also promote citizens' participation in political processes. Information is the currency of democracy, I have read once. The implementation of the EU Directive will ensure the support of an integrated European environmental policy – I believe, Minister, that you agree with me – and also have a far-reaching impact on the providers of the official geodata. For example, it is about data on the quality of the air, for example in the Tyrolean Inntal, where there is always too much, very difficult air situations. By means of geodata, these environmental data are linked, and in case of need, possible consequences can also be taken across countries. In conclusion: We must not lose sight of an objective, namely to take advantage of our environment. As a Tyrolean member of the Tourism Committee, I would like to say: A flourishing leisure and tourism industry works only within an intact environment. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e13649	Next speaker: Mr Herbert. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e13673	Madam President. Federal Minister! Since my two previous speakers have already given a detailed opinion on what geodata are and where the meaning of this anti-exhaustive government proposal lies, I am entitled to come to the essentials. Yes, we will agree to this government proposal, although I have already made two comments in committee, which have not yet been implemented and which I would like to stress at this point. On the one hand, it is about including a finding in this government template that the data to be processed there or the data used is not intended to be used for other purposes, i.e. foreign to purpose. Also a corresponding cancellation declaration, as it is already Usus in other legal provisions, namely that one must also delete data that one no longer needs, would have been useful and probably innovative. The second problem with which I have a little bit of a problem or which seems a little unclear to me is the definition of the “institutions of the lower level of administration”. It is likely that it will be difficult to determine in each individual case: Who really was that? Who has been meant to do so?, not only when it comes to the recipients of these legal provisions, but also when it comes to making the responsibilities and the responsibilities in the execution of the law renowned and tangible, and especially when it comes to sanctions when it comes to one or the other. These would have been two useful additions, which unfortunately did not get in here. Nevertheless: The rest seems to us reasonable, sensible and useful, and therefore, as has been said, we will agree to this bill. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e13713	Mrs Magnette has now come to speak. Brunner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e13734	Madam President. Minister! This law deals, among other things, with access to geo data, facilitating access for citizens, including for science and administration. We welcome that, of course. From our point of view, access should also be as comprehensive as possible. This innovation reduces the bodies that need to be prepared to the minimum necessary extent to those that need to be processed by distributed societies, such as the Federal Environment Agency. I hope that this will facilitate, above all, the work of the Federal Environment Agency, which provides very valuable information in the field of the environment. Unfortunately, the budget of the Federal Environment Agency is cut short by you. And I hope that this law contributes to the fact that the Federal Environment Agency is still a little easier and can continue to provide us with valuable information. Not least because: Austria needs an independent, strong and committed Ministry of the Environment.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e13765	It is now Mrs Schenk's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e13788	Madam President. Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Much has already been said about the Geodata Infrastructure Act by my previous speakers. Access to and use of geodata should be facilitated for citizens, for administration and for the economy. We have already discussed this law here in the High House in January 2010. There has been a detailed discussion process here. ==References== ==References====External links== There have also been concerns about data protection at the time. These were also included in this legislative initiative, according to my memory, with a five-party proposal. ==References== In March 2010, this law came into force. What we decide here today is an amendment because this directive has been over-filled. Why it has been overcrowded, this has somehow been hidden in the committee and has not been the result of the speeches today. The fact is that we consider this law, the Geodata Infrastructure Act to be very important and correct. It is an important contribution to a positive environmental policy. We will, of course, give this law our consent, just as we gave it our approval in the Committee and also the first law in January 2010. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e13821	It now has Mr. Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e13843	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to thank the mandaters that they have been so professionally addressed on this subject and that they have been consistently notified of this law. We have the situation that we are confronted with a wealth of data – sometimes superfluous – so it is all the more important that an order enters the system that the existing – in this case – geodata are also made accessible that citizens, the institutions, the authorities can derive an optimal benefit when it comes, for example: Where are floods? Where are energy lines running? Where do water supply lines run? Therefore, accessibility is to be improved here, including the availability of data in the case of structural measures, the quality is to be improved and the benefits are also to be optimised. That means that people should benefit from it. And we also expect environmental issues to become more focused on the fact that environmental policy is more involved in policy areas through the use of these geodata, which relate not only to technical data but also to environmental data. Thank you very much, therefore, for the willingness to adopt this law together.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e13876	Mrs Mag. Mulder. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e13897	Madam President. Minister! In conclusion, I would like to point out that in Austria we do not have the EU directive. but that we can also adapt them to the needs of our country at any time. And in this sense, as far as the scope is concerned, account is taken solely of and limited to the implementation of this Geodata Infrastructure Directive. This means in particular that our public transport companies, as well as water and energy suppliers, are decommissioned from time-consuming administrative tasks. Of course, with this novel to the Geodata Infrastructure Act, we do not question the high relevance of the data. It is a generally welcome data collection, considering that all objects on the Earth's surface can be accurately recorded with these data. And this also ensures uniform processing and accessibility of administrative data – they can be accessed and used by anyone, in part only with restrictions. The last two years have also shown that this is of great interest to certain users – landscape planners, architects. What is not yet a reality is that health data can also be retrieved, for example, which diseases occur particularly frequently in which region. I hope that this opportunity for basic research in the next novelle will already be a reality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e13937	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. No final word on the part of the reporting is desired. We therefore proceed to the vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 1843 of the supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall immediately reach the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who will also give their approval to this draft law at third reading to give a sign. – That is unanimous in turn. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[16:48:12]] 9. Point Report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on amendment 2059/A(E) by Mr Hannes Weninger, ing. Hermann Schultes, Carmen Gartelgruber, Mag. Christiane Brunner, Mag. Rainer Widmann, ladies and gentlemen, on the consistent implementation of the Austrian anti-atomic policy with the aim of a Europe-wide fastest possible exit from nuclear energy, on the Amendment No 1722/A(E) by Mrs Ing. Mr Schultes, Mr Hannes Weninger, colleagues, on the continuation of the Austrian anti-atomic policy with the aim of getting out of nuclear energy as quickly as possible. Amendment No 1978/A(E) by Mr Dr Eva Glawischnig-Piesczek, Members of Parliament, on the implementation of the petition for the global nuclear exodus, on the Amendment 811/A(E) by Mrs Ing. Norbert Hofer, Member of the Commission. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on resolution AKF Mochovce, on the Amendment No 1377/A(E) by Mrs Werner Neubauer, colleagues, on no return to nuclear power in Italy, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. Amendment No 1318/A(E) by Mr Werner Neubauer, colleagues in relation to cross-border EIA in case of extension of German nuclear power stations and on the Request 1837/A(E) by Mr Werner Neubauer, colleagues in the analysis of AKW stress tests by Austrian experts (1966 d.B.) 10. Point Report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on amendment 1532/A(E) by Mr Mag. Rainer Widmann, colleagues on infringement proceedings against Temelén-EIA (1967 d.a.) 11th@item: inlistbox Point Report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on amendment 1533/A(E) by Mr Mag. Rainer Widmann, colleagues on infringement proceedings against Mochovce-EIA (1968 d.b.) 12. Point Report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on Amendment No 1146/A(E) by Mr Werner Neubauer, colleagues, on the threat posed by the failure to carry out the environmental impact assessment for the completion of blocks 3 and 4 of the Mochovce AKW (1969, d.e.g.) 13. Point Report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on Amendment No 2033/A(E) by Mr Werner Neubauer, colleagues, on the initiation of infringement proceedings for non-European Temel­n­EVP (1970 d.b.) 14. Point Report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on Amendment No 1736/A(E) by Mr Mag. Rainer Widmann, colleagues with regard to still open TemelÃn security issues (1971, e.g.) 15. Point Report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on amendment 1855/A(E) by Mr Mag. Rainer Widmann, colleagues in relation to a complaint for a breach of competition by billions of subsidies from the nuclear industry (1972 d.a.) 16. Point Report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on amendment 1518/A(E) by Mr Werner Neubauer, colleagues on the examination of the supply of federal buildings by means of guaranteed nuclear power-free energy (1973 d.b.) 17. Point Report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on amendment 1861/A(E) by Mrs Ing. Norbert Hofer, colleagues on measures against a nuclear waste disposal camp in Jaslovske Bohunice (1974 d.b.) 18. Point Report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on amendment 2097/A(E) by Mr Werner Neubauer, colleagues on the closure of nuclear power stations as EU billion tombs (1975 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e14177	We now come to points 9 to 18 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. We are going into the debate. The first is Mr Neubauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e14207	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! In a survey published 14 days ago, the Austrians were asked what made them proud in recent years. And You will hardly believe what is classified first here, namely: 69 percent of Austrians have agreed that they are most proud that Austria has decided not to build nuclear power plants. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This survey and this opinion I can follow seamlessly, because this decision on Zwentendorf from 1978 has already caused a lot in our country. This decision-making on nuclear policy has, of course, influenced Austria's attitude on this point. Today, we have a five-party proposal on nuclear, nuclear and all the related topics, and I say that today it could be a good, successful day for the environment in Austria – I emphasize: it could be – if this government actually understood this as a mission for the future. There is something like a fundamental consensus in this Republic on nuclear policy, but the world has also changed. The world has fallen home to globalisation, and we all know that the energy issue will be one of the burning topics for the future. And energy questions have become increasingly acute in the course of the events of Chernobyl and not least due to the event in Fukushima. We are not only exposed to dangers that reach us from these power plants, but also along our borders we have scrap reactors – like Krško, like Mühleberg, like Temelín and others. In the future, we simply need to pay more attention to how we deal with these things from the government, because one thing cannot be: that we are making a five-party decision here today to explain to each other how great we are not dealing with this nuclear policy and with the dangers, but finally, in the active optional course, we are not actually doing something about the dangers that lurk at the border. We really need to get better. Therefore, we do not want this decision today to have something like a placebo effect for Austria, but we want it for the Austrians and Austrians. From here today put an actual signal, going there: Yeah, we're here for you. In the future, we are indeed concerned that this issue of nuclear power will be dealt with in Austria and that nuclear power in Europe will no longer have a future. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] As we have heard from the Committee that numerous requests, which are also on the agenda today and are available for discussion and decision-making, have in fact only been postponed or not dealt with because, in the opinion of the government parties, they are supposed to have been made on the basis of rumors, I can tell you that: Mr Federal Minister, you told us at the last meeting of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection that we do not need to work here because of a nuclear waste camp on the Czech border, nor at the nuclear waste storage camp in Slovakia, because we do not know at all whether this is going to happen at all. – Two days later, Mr. Federal Minister, the largest daily newspaper in Austria had this publisher. [[The speaker holds the front page of an issue of the “Kronen Zeitung” with the headline “Atom-Knoll in the Czech Republic”.]] We know that the Czech Republic is building a third nuclear power plant here and that Temelín and Dukovany are equipped with third and fourth reactors. So don't pretend there's no need for action! There is a need for massive action in these areas. Only you, as the Federal Government, should finally take this seriously. We will, in any case, try to ensure that all these points, in which the Freedom Party has made a massive contribution to the fact that today they also reach a decision in this form, not only serve as a placebo to say that they would have done something anyway, but we will measure you, ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government, to the actions you will be dealing with in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e14287	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Schools. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e14308	Thank you, Madam President. Estimated Minister of State! Dear ladies and gentlemen in the High House! We already have a special occasion today. It is, of course, a subject that keeps moving and worrying people. If we are talking today about Austria not only depriving itself of the use of nuclear energy in the final analysis, but also much more of an influence on the fact that our neighbouring countries, all of Europe, are out of nuclear power if we do so today, this is already a high demand. And such a concern expressed in the form of a five-party proposal should be borne by the whole House. That means, hopefully, he will be decided with the approval of six parties – this will still prove to be true. Such changes also occur in this House. It is a request which is a great sign of confidence in our Federal Minister Berlakovich, for it is he who has proved quite clearly so far that the representative of Austria in the European scene around the use of the nuclear power is the one who sets the accents and is the one who, when it comes to it, takes the word and, when it comes to it, also enforces things. [[Abg. May. Brunner: This is a job assignment!]] We are very proud that the stress test has actually been carried out in Europe. We are not satisfied with the results everywhere, but our experts have been there so far that we can also bring the interpretation today. After all, this stress test has also been carried out in Switzerland, also in Ukraine, and shows where there are errors, shows where something needs to be fixed, shows where to work. It is only this, I think, that we should thank our Minister of State for taking the initiative here so vehemently. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In the future, it will be a question of Austria becoming even more prominent in the European Community of States which do not use nuclear power, and of ensuring that other countries get into the contemplative phase. In the end, however, we must be aware that the use of nuclear energy is not to be stopped from today until tomorrow, and therefore it is a question of constantly monitoring, developing and improving safety systems throughout Europe, improving information systems and bringing Austria into a strong position when it comes to the ongoing discussion on this issue. That is why it is important for ministers to express their views on these issues to those States that are concerned about this issue. Especially today, Vaclav Klaus was in our house and spoke to the clubmen/woman – and I do not know, perhaps there is something to be clarified in the liberals in the party, because Mr. Strache was not the one who was the loudest in the Czech position. In any event, ladies and gentlemen, it is important that in future we remain firmly on this issue of safety and move on to the Austrian question of new energy, the new generation of electricity, and more force renewable energy. Then: Just demanding that the others lock their nuclear power plants will be too little. [[Abg. May. Stefan: But the bowl has said when they are in the EU! The bowl has promised that if we take it in, they will surely lock the nuclear power plants!]] Only to demand that end-camps be properly arranged will be too few. It is about new ways, and it is about bringing Austrian technology into pole position that we can also secure our jobs and show that we can say more than just no. We can say yes to a sustainable way! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e14364	I am very rarely saying something in terms of content, but I would like to make it clear that the President of the Czech Republic was here in the House and four political groups were present on this visit that took place with me: There was no different opinion among all political groups – not at all. The President has clearly accepted the message that Austria is saying that the parties are in great agreement here for anti-atomic policy. And, yes, he has little joy with it, I can say that too, but that has not been the question, the message is, I think, arrived at the President. I do not want to stress a political group more strongly than another, this is important to me because we have really worked together here. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Next, Mrs Mag. Brunner speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e14394	Madam President. High house! I am also referring to our joint proposal for anti-atomic policy in Austria. It is important to me, after the remarks made by my previous speaker, to stress that: It is my self-understanding as a parliamentarian not to formulate applications to thank a minister, but to decide on applications here to give a minister work contracts, because we are the legislative one here, and the minister is only the executive body. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] As a Parliament, I think we should also be self-confident. We have, of course, an anti-atomic consensus in Austria, which is sometimes interpreted differently or is different. This request, as I think, is a minimum standard, which we all agreed on. [[President Neugebauer shall take over the chairmanship.]] I also thank all the negotiators – only partners in this case – for the possibility of this request. We have actually negotiated very hard to make this request. From my point of view, he meets a minimum standard and, of course, I assume that the Minister will also implement him, because that is his task as Minister. But for me, the work with this request is not complete. We can't say now: So, now we have this proposal, so we can put the ad acta, because the anti-atomic policy is supposed to get momentum again. From my point of view, the work begins only now, especially not only the work in Austria, because in Austria it is not too difficult to act against nuclear power plants. Austria needs to make an important contribution to our neighbouring countries and at European level it really needs to be pressured once again to achieve nuclear exodus. Mr Minister, we would like to inform you so that you can also act strongly at European level in order to make the Austrian anti-atomic consensus quite clear. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The outcome of this request was a petition initiated, in particular by Global 2000 and then by the club members, to the Parliament. This petition was launched after the disaster of Fukushima. It is sad that, unfortunately, there is always a need for disasters to get attention in environmental policy. Nevertheless, this petition has again shown how great the interest of the Austrian population in the field of anti-atomic policy is still. This interest is also very well justified, there are very many high-risk reactors around Austria – in almost all neighbouring countries, also directly at the Austrian border. Therefore, the care of the Austrians is more than legitimate and more than understandable. Over 703,000 people have signed this petition. I would like to express my sincere thanks to all those who have participated, especially those who have made great efforts. I thank all those who have gone through this effort – it is a great effort to start something like this, to collect so many signatures – and I also thank all those who have otherwise contributed to the success of this petition. We were also able to deal with this petition exemplaryly in Parliament, with a hearing in the Committee on Petitions and the Committee on the Environment. We will also communicate this together to the subcontractors. In my opinion, this petition was also a support to bring a little movement back into the parliamentary debate. What I would have liked is that we should also put the petition's demands into an application and decide here 1 : 1. Thus the original request of the Greens has looked forward to: There was first the shutdown of all high-risk reactors, a plan to get out of nuclear power at all in Europe, then the removal the subsidies, more funding for energy efficiency and renewable energy, and also a halt to the extension of the term. Some of these demands we have been able to accommodate and enforce in this request. That is why I am also pleased with this request. As we have said, from our point of view, it is a minimum standard which obliges you, Mr Minister, to take advantage of all legal opportunities to ensure that the high-risk reactors are switched off at our borders and that there are no further constructions and new buildings, and above all to exert political pressure on those countries that still want to use nuclear power and to further expand them, and also to set up joint actions with those countries that are already power-free, which, as I believe, would be a very important initiative. The states that do not want nuclear power stations are in the majority. It can't be that these must always be under the dictatorship of the few nuclear proponents that still exist. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Here again, it is about self-confidence, making credible anti-atomic policies at European level, making credible Austrian anti-atomic policies and, as has been said, setting up joint initiatives with other countries. Today, there was already the first opportunity to do so, and the President mentioned it. I would be interested, Minister, in how you have acted against the Czech Prime Minister. As far as I heard, he was not very open to our arguments. But it is simply a matter of expressing very strongly the position of the Austrian Parliament – I hope that the Austrian Government will see that as well – and at least to make it clear that the Austrian population does not want nuclear power, does not want to have nuclear power in Austria, does not want to import nuclear power, nor does it want to import nuclear power, nor does it risk reactors at our borders. I also call on you to communicate this in accordance with the Czech Prime Minister and all the other nuclear power advocates who still exist. By the way, I am of the opinion: To further advance environmental policy, we need an independent, strong and committed Ministry of the Environment in Austria!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e14494	Mr Wenninger has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e14516	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I am very proud of the fact that after almost a year's round of negotiations, we have now made this five-party request. It is certainly a compromise of a consensus in the long tradition of the Austrian anti-CFC policy and, in part, an attempt to integrate in a single application countless opposition applications to be dealt with in the Environment Committee. We have tried to complete all those requests which fit into this five-party request, have not delayed any request, but have very openly debated and said: What we can jointly formulate we are putting into this proposal! – This is, of course, a political compromise in politics. But on these, I think we can all be very proud. The other applications were rejected by the majority of the Committee on the Environment. In the first place, I would like to thank very much those who have actually put the initial inflammation for this political initiative: It was “Global 2000” the one side and the Austrians on the other side. More than 700 000 Austrians have signed this petition, and the club presidents have signed this petition for politics. We have carried out a very detailed, in-depth, excellent hearing with the experts and environmental organisations in the Committee on Petitions and have finally formulated this five-party request. I would like to thank Dr Klaus Kasshofer very much for taking up the opinion of the Austrians on the anti-CFC policy for the whole team of “Global 2000”. I would also like to thank the environmental speakers, my colleagues, Mr Schultes, Mr Brunner, Mr Hofer and Mr Widmann. It was hard negotiations, sometimes at the tip of the demolition, but I think the Austrian anti-AKW consensus has won. I also see this as another milestone, because on the one hand, it instructs our National Council to continue to act actively and offensively in Austria, in Europe and globally against the use of nuclear energy, and on the other hand to the government in recognition of what this Federal Government has done in this area. In this context, I would remind you of the German Chancellor's Anti-AKW Summit and also of his initiative to agree with environmental organisations to free Austria from any import of nuclear power from 2015. At the same time, however, this proposal also supports and mandates all those who are politically active – the Federal Government, MEPs, environmental organisations and NGOs – to contribute politically to this mainstream within the population in the Austrian tradition of anti-CFC policy, and to those who believe that the events of Fukushima will easily be forgotten. Social democracy is in the tradition of anti-CFC policy, and I am very glad that we can adopt this proposal unanimously today.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e14561	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Widmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e14582	Mr President. High house! A good joint anti-Atomist approach has not yet made a good anti-Atomist policy of this Federal Government – unless it has been held in a preliminary position – because the efforts by the opposition, but also by many NGOs in recent years, have shown that they have so far encountered deaf ears in this Federal Government, as we have experienced at an environmental committee meeting a few weeks ago, where we have finally formulated and unanimously decided on this joint motion, while at the same time many requests of the opposition, which have been incorporated in this request, have been rejected by that government. [[OBJECTIVES]] I am already wondering why we want to prevent these good individual requests from going much further and is trying to make a joint request with this government. But I also say: The will stands for the work, and we accept and respect it too! But the decisive thing will be that these announcements will also follow very concrete actions. That's what I'm saying. Getting in three months at the latest You, Mr Minister, have a written question by me, which has all been implemented by these points. We would like to know, even before the National Council election, whether you are prepared to implement this request together with your colleagues in government. This request is not in itself a worse one, for: This is about the implementation and suspension of legal remedies. This is about producing political pressure. This is the revision of the Euratom Treaty. This is also a matter of concluding mutual information agreements in order to find out the actual situation. ‘Atomstop-Oberösterreich’ has shown this: In 2007, 20 INEs-1 errors or incidents that occurred in Temelín were reported only one third. 14 have not been reported. There is already the question of what such agreements are worth. In this joint request, we are also talking about the subsidisation of nuclear power, which is unacceptable in many areas, including liability, insurance, which actually takes over the taxpayers in the respective countries of the sites. I now come to speak on two very specific requests from the BZÖ. First: Infringement proceedings against Temelín. – What prevents you from initiating such a thing? You know very well that the extension of the Temelín nuclear power station by two other blocks was illegal in the EU, which was done in accordance with old EIA law, i.e. was not EU-compliant. It is built on devils coming out, although every energy expert knows that after completion of this monster power plant in Temelín, one third of the Czech electricity is intended for export and not for its own needs. – These are things you should put off. But the government is not doing anything. It does not initiate infringement proceedings. Next example: Mochovce. - Exactly the same situation: You also do not impose any infringement proceedings. I also remind you that in 2000, the National Council unanimously decided not to close the “energy chapter” with the Czech Republic. There are still open security issues. At the time, seven major security issues had to be resolved. We have decided not to conclude that. What happened? – Temelín went into full operation and you watched – until then on 14. In this House, it has once again been unanimously decided in December 2006 to take action under international law. But you did not follow that again. What do I want to say? . I am very concerned that, after the Sunday speeches of the government parties, we have made a nice request, but we will wait for it to be implemented. But what does the warm citizen who wants to sit down for a living? – He does this like Rainer Widmann: It brings an individual complaint to the European Court of Human Rights against the development of Temelín. I am deeply convinced, contrary to the adoption of the Czech Republic, that radioactive rays are cross-border, which every small child now knows. But it seems that this government still does not know. I bring in an individual complaint because I feel threatened in my life, as well as tens of thousands and hundreds of thousands of people in Upper Austria, and because it is against our health and our property here in beautiful Austria. I would have expected you to do this by the government, and I would not leave it for people to bring in private complaints and individual complaints, and leave them alone on a wider corridor. These things need to be discussed. We'll carry this if you do it now. They have the blank check for a judicial and also legal dispute with the neighbouring countries. This is the case in the joint motion. I'm already excited about what's going to happen in the next few days. Or: Our request for ECJ, a complaint against the infringement of competition. – What about the fact that the liabilities for large nuclear companies and billions of subsidies have to pay to the general public and that renewable energy is competitive? That's what I'm asking myself, Minister: Why don't you do anything about this? There is an EU law in force, and I am in favour of complying with EU law. Or: Euratom, where the argument is repeatedly tried: We want to be there, we want to be able to talk! - What are we talking to? What has Euratom done to this day? Ensure that nuclear power plants in operation are safe. Maybe or not, if any scrap reactors are preserved longer in life. But, in reality, it is not about the expansion of renewable energy in Europe. That would be the only thing that would be useful and correct. So I expect you not only to have an active anti-atomic policy, but also to move forward with national measures to increase renewable energy. You know exactly that the environmental budget will fall by one third next year, from around one billion to 650 million euros. € 350 million, previously issued for so-called JI/CDM programmes, CO2 certificates to make the climate balance beautiful, have now become free. Why Take Don't you use these resources to increase renewable energy in Austria and make our country more environmentally friendly? That would be the right approach! You should also think about it.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e14668	Next speaker: Mr Mayer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e14689	Mr President. Estimated Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! This five-party proposal is certainly a big step for us, but it is ultimately about the Europe-wide exit from nuclear power and, among other things, also about the safety of nuclear power stations that are still in operation. Stress test. Our minister was there to make progress on these measures. But it's also about storing nuclear waste. We know very well, even if we will not use nuclear power in the future, our children and our grandchildren will still be faced with the problem of final storage, and that certainly gives us reason to think. But one thing is clear: simply speak against saying: We do not want that! is too little, but we also need to talk about alternatives, such as renewable energy forms. We need to make this even more effective. This is where we have taken a big step with the new Ecostrom Act, with the increase in the budget funds doubled, and we have set another milestone. But that does not mean that when the funding volume is doubled, the renewable plants automatically grow and develop accordingly. We know very well that there are inconsistencies over and over again when it comes to bringing people's interests and interests in nature into one. For example, in Upper Austria, we have tried to create a master plan on the topic of "wind power", where we have tried to find a common denominator. Unfortunately, this common denominator has become quite a smaller one. If we know that in Upper Austria not even 30 wind turbines are currently in operation, while in Lower Austria more than 300 plants provide nuclear power-free energy, we are aware that we still have potential. That's why I'm asking: Having more courage to rethink this Master Plan so that we can secure our pioneering role. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e14728	Next speaker: Mr Tadler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e14750	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Only in this spring did a study by the renowned Max Planck Institute become known that the probability of an atomic super-GAU was calculated significantly higher than previously assumed, ladies and gentlemen. At the eastern and southern borders of our Republic, as we have already heard today, we see clearly how old, yes, ancient scrap reactors endanger the safety of the Austrian population. For this reason, we were probably also driven down at the Salzburg border Isar 1, where there were still problems when we went down. As mentioned today, this fact is also reflected in the 700,000 signatures. I would also like to thank “Global 2000” for this. Around the world, however, 438 such nuclear bombs are still ticking around us today, at different locations. The approach with the stress test was a real step, but the design and implementation of this pan-European test does not necessarily speak for itself. At the same time, the final opinion of the cross-border EIA report for the Slovak nuclear power plant Mochovce is also being adopted. However, this report completely ignores and excludes the cross-border effects of an incident. According to you, Mr Federal Minister, the approach, especially that of Slovakia, is in this respect an affront against Austria. This is to be condemned to the greatest extent possible, as you have noted. The disaster of Fukushima is probably still present to all those present, and the real long-term effects of it cannot even be estimated. With regard to Mochovce, 160 kilometres from Vienna, I do not want to imagine the effects of an incident or a super-GAU of this nuclear power plant on Austria and, above all, on the main Vienna area. In this context, the resolution of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection is a first step. But I can also imagine that the five will be a six-party request – but that will not take another year. -Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e14790	Now comes Mr. Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e14811	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! This proposal contains a number of very important points and is therefore a valuable support for the anti-atomic policy of the Austrian Federal Government. I can assure you that we are consistently and purposefully implementing this policy, and we are already pursuing some of the points contained in the proposal, both at European level and worldwide. The disaster of Fukushima has clearly shown that nuclear power is not safe, and all who claim it are once more Lies have been punished – and this has been done in Year 25 to Chernobyl. Many people rightly say that humanity is not becoming smarter and continues to rely on nuclear power, today more than ever, because energy is becoming increasingly expensive, and many states – think of China, India and others – need energy and therefore increasingly rely on nuclear power. We certainly say no to that. Austria has a long tradition, because the Austrian population spoke out against it at the time. So far, we have had a smile in Europe that we do not use nuclear power and so to speak show modernity, but we have unfortunately been confirmed in our way by Fukushima. The highest ceiling for us is the security of the Austrian population. The choice of energy is national law, that is, every European State can choose the form of energy it considers to be correct. But there is also a cross-border security claim, and it is clear that Austria is involved in all procedures that are cross-border. When a neighbouring country builds a nuclear power plant, it is clear that Austria participates in the cross-border EIA procedure and is aware of the security interests of the Austrian population. This also applies to a search for a warehouse. It was mentioned here that the Czech Republic is looking for a repository for its nuclear waste. – That’s right, but the search has been going for years and decades, and it’s really exactly the same as it was in Austria. When the Czech Republic says: Here would be a possible location!, says the population there: No, not here with us! – That is, this search is very difficult for the Czechs. But it is clear as soon as the Czech Republic starts to deal with a process and says that we want to make a location here, Austria is involved in these environmental impact assessment procedures and brings in Austrian interests. It was also mentioned here that we are not resisting. - We do it very well! Regarding the Czech Republic and the EIA procedure: The Czech Republic was sentenced because it did not implement the EIA Directive. The European Union is the guardian of the Treaties and is also committed here; Austria is supporting the European Union in this regard. A procedure against Slovakia is under way for non-compliance with the EIA Directive. Also, Austria believes that the European Union, which has to do with complying with the Treaties, sets as hard standards as possible. But we have suffered the consequences. When Fukushima happened last year, many people in Austria asked: What about the safety of nuclear power plants around us and in Europe? Austria was leading: We have initiated the stress tests at European level, and Commissioner Oettinger has implemented them. It was Austria that very vehemently forced state that the pensible and consistent stress tests were. The final report is now before us, and it must be said that the stress tests were good, but they were not good enough, because what we wanted and what people in Austria – and I say – expect in Europe too – is that every single nuclear power plant in Europe will be evaluated: How sure is it? What are the standards? Where is the need for retrofit? – This has not been done, so we are not satisfied. The period during which the European Commission reviewed nuclear power plants was too short. This has to be said critically, so we have not reached the end of the trip. But all the unconcealed calls that many – unfortunately also opposition parties and NGOs – have expressed: That Austria with the stress tests, so to speak, a whitewashing of nuclear power plants that wants atomic lobby is ridiculous. That's ridiculous! The East After Fukushima, the Federal Government has immediately adopted an action plan against nuclear power, where we are acting together. The sense of stress tests – that is, critical scientists – has reached the point, namely, that the atomic lobby has been granted for the first time: Yes, there are problems with nuclear power plants and we need to review them. – And what has also come out – even if we are not satisfied with it – is that there is a need for improvement in all European nuclear power plants, and that is progress. This is a very tough, hard way, because there is a lot of resistance in Europe. Those who rely on nuclear power don't want to be put into the crafts, but we support Oettinger on this path. I believe that we also need to develop a European nuclear safety system. We need to learn from Fukushima! People have a right to say that we have to take precautions here. Even if the choice of energy is national law, Europe must look together to prevent accidents and to ensure that people have safety. Therefore, our demand is also clear – that is not the end of these stress tests –: These have a need for retrofits of about €10 to 25 billion. Now it is about taking the next step, namely that the Member States with nuclear power plants are developing action plans on how to address the deficiencies in nuclear power stations. That's not a big deal. It is important that the Heads of Government act. These will receive the final report on the stress tests, and Austria will insist that either nuclear power stations are switched off or retrofitted, quite clearly – no matter what it costs – because safety must not be saved. There are no compromises. We have also tried a few months after Fukushima to form a platform in Europe. I have invited those states in the EU and also those in Europe who are not members of the European Union to Vienna to form an anti-CFC platform. They came to Vienna and we agreed to continue working. But it must be said critically that the Elan is abandoning some states, because Fukushima is no longer in the headlines and therefore it is obviously no longer such a subject. – Austria does not leave after: Your request is important and an important support to continue along this path and to look for partners in Europe. But you also have successes, think of Germany, for example: Germany is getting out of nuclear power, for a high-industrial country this is already a significant step. The energy transition there – you read and see it permanently in the media – is not an easy way, but a more politically correct one. Switzerland has said that it does not expand nuclear power. In Italy, the population has decided not to enter nuclear power. – That means that we will be more on our way towards a Europe without nuclear power. But that won't go from today to tomorrow. In conclusion: In Japan, when Fukushima happened, it was seen that the emergency plans were not as optimal as they were. On this occasion we have initiated that in Austria we review the emergency plans we have on the federal side and in the federal states. We from the Ministry of Life, together with the Minister of the Interior and the federal states, organised an emergency exercise a few weeks ago to check how functional our emergency plans are if – God guard – an incident occurs at a nuclear power plant in Europe, and how the organizations work together, that is, fire brigade, federal army, red cross, police and the other aid organization to the civil protection institutions. As Quintessence, you can now say: The exercise was held in several stages, including in a field exercise, and it has shown that the emergency plans work, that the authorities are well coordinated and that the Austrian population can hear the message that we are prepared for a case that hopefully never occurs, but the emergency prevention works. This is important and this is also part of the security policy for the Austrian population. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e14918	Next speaker: Mr Plessl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e14939	Mr President. Estimated Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Last year, nuclear energy, but also anti-atomic policy – not least due to the catastrophic incidents in the Japanese nuclear power plants of Fukushima and the uncertainty about existing nuclear miles – was the subject of the public debate again and again. Due to the incidents of that time, not only in Austria, but also abroad, the desire for a comprehensive and, above all, final exit from nuclear power came up. In any case, the impressive number of supporters of the petition “To the World’s Nuclear Exit – Turn Off! Now!” with their signatures, they clearly confirmed the way of the Austrian government. I'm thinking of the 11th incident. March 2011, on the earthquake with the strength of 9, on its consequences, on the devastating tsunami, and on the many dead in Japan. But I am also thinking of the effects on the Japanese nuclear power plants and the nuclear fusion in several reactors. The cost estimate for the decommissioning and decommissioning of nuclear reactors in Japan resulted in a cost point of over €10 billion and an implementation period of almost 40 years. Ladies and gentlemen, Austria is focusing on renewable energies, especially hydropower and wind power. Especially in Lower Austria, we have a realistic potential for performance in wind turbines of over 1,500 megawatts. In my region there is a large part of this potential, and many plants are being built or are at the planning stage. But we must not only discuss the establishment, but also renew the electricity grids, invest in intelligent approaches, especially in electric mobility, but also in the so-called intelligent electricity networks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e14976	Next speaker: Mrs Gartelgruber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e14998	Mr President. Minister! Dear colleagues! Yes, I too welcome this five-party proposal here today. I think we have succeeded in putting a sign in the anti-atomic policy to decide here a rapidest possible exit from nuclear energy. But I also join my colleague Brunner's request: This should be just a job assignment for you, Minister. My previous speakers have also mentioned that the starting point is the petition “To the global nuclear exit – shut down! Now!” was signed by 703,000 Austrians. Five parties – as I have heard now, six parties – in the House see the need to place a sign here together for Austria. However, I would also like to remind you at this point of Euratom's popular desire. Unfortunately, the initiators have not reached the limit of 100 000 signatures. The delivery period ran only a few days before the terrible disaster in Fukushima. I am convinced that this popular desire would have received much more support if it had lasted even longer. At this point, I would also like to thank the initiators of the Euratom People's Desire. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Austria must act actively for EU-wide decommissioning, in particular, of scrap reactors and of a duration extension. Mr Minister, you said that the stress test is now what has come out of your initiative. – I think that if we look at this, it only says that the nuclear power plants now have a longer time to retrofit, and I think it is counterproductive if we have a ten-year extension today. Here a problem is actually just prolonged. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Minister! With this request, there are 24 specific measures to support your initiative across Europe, but I cannot entirely spare you the accusation that I think this is just a small placebo. Otherwise, I cannot explain that the opposition requests have been rejected, in particular the request made by my colleague Norbert Hofer regarding a nuclear waste camp in Bohunice. You have also mentioned the cross-border security awareness in Europe: This nuclear waste storage site is to be built only 60 kilometres from the border of Burgenland, and this also means that the Bohunice nuclear power station is to be expanded. I also expect you to take a massive stand against it. And in order to be truly credible, you are required to prevent this project. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl.]] I also call on the SPÖ and ÖVP colleagues not to reject our opposition requests, because they are very useful and also include important efforts to ensure that this five-party request, which we are deciding on today, is not only a lip commitment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e15067	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Hammer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e15088	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Today, we are taking a common step towards a non-atomic Austria and the global nuclear exodus. This should above all be a common sign of closeness to the outside. It has already been mentioned: Today, this closeness to the Czech Republic has already been demonstrated, because we in Austria – and this is also true of the speeches – are in agreement. We should do our convictions abroad, vis-à-vis neighbouring countries and within the European Union. Today's decision, and that has already been said, is essential to the interests of the Austrian population and, above all, transports the numerous resolutions that many communities and many citizens have addressed to us – including my community – that we should take seriously that the Austrian population also carries the nuclear course of Austria and the Austrian Federal Government. And it is, I believe, necessary that we also support our Federal Government and our Federal Ministers when it comes to substantial progress and improvement. I believe that it is not appropriate to use the nuclear issue here in this House for party-political profiling, but we should really work together on substantial improvements here. [[Abg. New builder: There's nothing to profile!]] I would, however, like to point out quite vehemently, in all the efforts to get out of the world – and that as the Civil Protection Association President in Upper Austria – the subject of nuclear safety, and I believe that we should also take appropriate steps there. Recent surveys show us that when people ask them about the dangers and threats they are afraid of, the first subject is essentially the fear of an atomic accident. And I think that we really need to strengthen the security of the population and take steps here. With the step that the Federal Minister has taken with the stress tests, I believe we have been able to show that the safety of nuclear power plants is worthy of improvement. There are now steps to be taken, namely to shut down the high-risk reactors and to retrofit all the others. I believe that we owe this to our people, because we must guarantee the safety of the population as much as possible. Today's decision sets a common sign for the increase in the safety of nuclear power, for the exit from nuclear power and, above all, for the expansion of renewable energy, and we should work together on it.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e15125	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Pirklhuber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e15146	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! At the beginning, a great thank you again to the initiators of the petition, Global 2000. This petition really has a very good story, I must say, because it has shown that, if you actively use it and when you put pressure on it, the instruments can really become joint initiatives in Parliament, too, which, as you have seen in the Minister's opinion, are taken seriously at least once. - I'll come to the details later. But what I would like to mention and what we should not ignore is – and I find this remarkable – that there have been dozens of municipalities, i.e. fifty communities, who have decided resolutions together, including cross-party, in municipal councils, and these petitions have also been negotiated and negotiated in Parliament and carried out with this petition. I find this very remarkable, because it shows that even at local level there is the willingness of politics to join forces when it comes to the interests of life of the regions when it comes to the interests of life, for example of Mühlviertler municipalities, which are directly the first to be affected. We are already in the midst of the real problems. The Minister himself has also referred to the question of the final storage, which is completely open – an open issue of tens of thousands of years – which, if one considers it sober, one There is no soluble political question at all, because one would actually have to develop storage systems that keep beyond political stability, so to speak, to keep practical in reality. For what if the money is no longer there to monitor such deposits permanently, once it is really impossible to have access to these things through natural disasters or similar things for decades? – This seems to me to be one of the central points where, when we think it through, we are once again sure that our way of developing a non-atomic Europe is the right path that is safe. This, Mr Minister, is also a matter of a few things which we in Upper Austria, for example, have begun to attract offensively on several occasions and which we must make massive progress at European level, including the issue of cost-truth. The cost truthfulness of electricity production is currently not guaranteed. The illusion of Czech politics is that the nuclear current would really be the cheaper electricity! This is, as it were, an absolutely short-term accounting, which does not take into account insurance costs, no liability issues, no questions of storage costs. This would have to be integrated into the cost truth. This is a very strong argument that we should necessarily address. Fukushima shows how the companies operate there today. They're in state ownership today, because it's no different. These liability amounts cannot be covered by private companies. And that's exactly where our criticism in Europe needs to start, and ultimately it hits the taxpayer again. At this point, the exit conference should also begin for the non-atomic states – that is the initiative we need – on the issue of liability, on the issue of risk-based assessments. At the same time, we have to take into account the possibilities for convening a Euratom Treaty revision conference, and this is what I think is very important. That would have to be the two elements to develop a common line here. Minister! If you say that the ambitions of many countries are no longer particularly large, as the accident in Fukushima has been over for a long time, I tell you clearly: Then we are called on to make every effort and to invite actively, namely to invite us to Vienna, and to hold the next follow-up conference with a good preparation and an offensive announcement. That would be your job. However, we will not wait for that, but we will certainly demand it from you in the next few months, namely next year. That will be an important sample of nails, whether you are seriously willing to follow this request also in the policy of real implementation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e15198	Next speaker: Mrs Gessl-Ranftl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e15219	Mr President. Minister! High house! The fact that nuclear power is not safe was tragically confirmed to us by, among other things, the Chernobyl nuclear melt in April 1986. With this five-party proposal, Austria can become very active pioneers in the European area. In order to combat the nuclear lobby effectively, we need a long-term, rapid, but above all ambitious expansion of solar and wind energy as well as energy from biomass. There must be a rethinking. The Federal Government's Joint Action Plan of March 2011 has already made progress. The safety reserves of all nuclear installations within the EU, Ukraine and Switzerland have been reviewed. In addition, in April 2011 a meeting of States that already refrain from nuclear energy took place in Vienna. The pan-European line, the pan-European strategy is going towards resetting nuclear power. It is therefore very unfortunate that the Czech Republic is trying to take the opposite path, because economic interests should and should never be over environmental and security interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e15255	Next speaker: Member of the list. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e15277	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! A review of the results of the stress test from BZÖ view: Mr Federal Minister, you recently said that this test is not satisfactory for you. – Estimated Ladies and gentlemen, it is logical that the EU stress test for nuclear miles is destructive. All European nuclear power plants have safety failures, 64 of which are particularly vulnerable. Earthquake or tsunami disasters like in Fukushima would lead directly to the super-GAU. This test report did not assess any other risks from human failure or terrorist attacks, which has not been taken into account. But yet this stress test allows interesting conclusions. For example, the Slovenian-Croatian nuclear power station Krško has twice as many sides as all 17 German reactors in common. The Krško scrap reactor is located on an active earthquake line. There are always dangerous incidents there. Recently, the scrap reactor had to be shut down due to cooling water problems. The trigger for the shutdown was the failure of the cooling. After severe storms in the region the cooling of the scrap reactor had become impossible by the high-water save. Krško is a latent danger for all, for the south of Austria, a Sargnagel for Carinthia and the Styria. We from BZÖ therefore demand the immediate shutdown and decommissioning of Krško! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! At the same time, the madness of the Prague government, which has already been discussed today, namely to double the Temelín AKW and to expand Dukovany, must be fought with all means. What has been said here today is too little, because this is a declaration of war in the Czech Republic on Austria with tickling “Atom bombs”. We urge this failed federal government with you, Minister of the Environment Berlakovich, to launch a veto in the European Union, a massive protest against this possible nuclear bang in the Czech Republic. Unfortunately, what has happened today is too little. But, unfortunately, I do not think there will be this massive protest, because you, Minister Berlakovich, are running a very weak anti-atomic policy and are kneeling in front of the nuclear power companies. Berlakovich prefers to make full payments to the Farmers' Federation with taxpayers' money rather than to use an active anti-atomic policy! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] – Is it not? It's true, isn't it? Rehabilitation of the unsafe nuclear miles will probably cost the companies around €25 billion. Unfortunately, the EU and also Berlakovich only recommend the voluntary retrofitting of these scrap miles, and that is too little. We from the BZÖ demand the immediate retrofitting or shutdown of dangerous nuclear reactors. We want to shut down and shut down these nuclear reactors – the ÖVP wants to continue operating these scrap reactors, which is dangerous and responsible. This failed federal government continues to protect the nuclear lobby in Europe. Red and black are economically entirely extradited to this deadly nuclear policy – that was already the case under the former Chancellor's bowl. This is the wrong policy and a great danger for Europe as a whole. These dangers have long been recognized by the BZÖ. Our clubman Josef Bucherand our environmental speaker Rainer Widmann have therefore already prepared a package of measures, an efficient package of measures for a secure nuclear power-free future. Only our demands, the demands of the BZÖ, guarantee a non-atomic Europe in the long term!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e15353	Next speaker: Mr. Hörl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e15374	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Austria is a beautiful European top country. We have a great culture. We have beautiful opera houses, theatre, beautiful nature, most protected areas in the world, the best ski resorts. We have great craftsmen, innovative industries. We already have a high share of renewable energy, namely 34 percent. And we now have a five-party proposal to do everything in Europe to achieve the exit from nuclear power. But do we not even have to ask ourselves self-critically how to get out without getting started? Have we not already completed the entry into nuclear power in Zwentendorf in 1978? – By the way, we are world champions: No other country in the world has built up a nuclear power plant and then not put it into operation! Thank God. [[Abg. New builder: But no country in the world has built it before and then voted!]] Not, Mr. Neubauer? We should sometimes ask ourselves whether we do not overtake ourselves. At that time, Chancellor Kreisky convinced me that my youthful recklessness, my technical credibility, led me to vote against Zwentendorf. However, Kreisky did not keep his promise. The nuclear power plants in Europe are also being lied to, I give you the right. But it was our minister, it was Minister Berlakovich – Mr List, please take note – who invented the term “stress test” and which we also owe to the fact that these power plants have been reviewed and the shortcomings that have appeared there are also repaired. [[Abg. List: Too little!]] Our Minister is responsible for making Europe a bit safer. But should we not turn to the real things, see that we increase the share of renewable energy, that we also get away from the fossil energy sources of the 64 percent that remain when we reach our 2020 targets? I think that's good for us. Since I have heard the discussion about the Isel project today, I note that although the BZÖ and the Greens are constantly talking about renewable energy and energy change, when it comes to it, they are against it. I think you should change your policy. Mr Pirklhuber, not only talk, do too! Let us help us develop Austria a bit further. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber.]] Not only to be mouthy, but to be active!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e15432	Next speaker: Mrs. Dr. Winter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e15454	Mr President. Minister! High house! The main focus of the last Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection was, as the current debate can easily be seen, the nuclear hazard around and in Austria. This idea is based on at least 15 opposition parties initiatives. This means that more than two thirds of the agenda has been disputed by the opposition parties. [[Complaints with FPÖ and BZÖ.]] That is why I really wonder about the title of this five-party proposal: consistent implementation of anti-atomic policy. This would require political action for me, an active action by the government. We want to take this as good thoughts and instruct the Minister to take real initiatives. To deceive me is now not my favorite sport, so I would like to say that until then this was the only initiative of Austria after a year and a half and a half and I hope it will not stay. Let's look at the Czech Republic. In the Czech Republic, the third nuclear power station is planned. Temelín is to be further expanded, with two new reactors. Dukovany is expected to be extended. All of this explains the Czech Minister of the Interior with one sentence: It is necessary to stabilise the energy system and to use domestic energy sources as far as possible. – So, please, that's probably where energy autarchy is led ad absurdum. That's a sentence that just cried in front of Hohn. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The EU Commission has only recently published the report, inspired by the stress test, and Commissioner Oettinger has recognised that there is a need for action in all nuclear power stations in Europe. This need for action is to be met with around €25 billion. In front of my spiritual eye, I see the greens making an air leap and saying: It would be much better if this were to be invested in alternative energies, in eco-energy! But it is precisely because of this that I reject the green refusal of reality, because if we were to get out of nuclear energy ad hoc, we would not only get back to the Middle Ages, but also our economy would suffer enormous damage. I would also like to say, since Green politicians say that they represent the so-called intellectuals and the educated: What you're doing here is really economic illiteracy. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] To the red half of the empire, to the red comrades in this high house, I would like to say: You, as a Social Democrats or you, who call yourself Social Democrats, have found the democratic phrase at the end of your official name and want to revive it. It is no different for me to explain that you and your Federal Chancellor, in particular, are thus turning to the European Citizens' Initiative. A few words about Federal Chancellor Faymann: What do you think of a man who denies his own life course? What are you supposed to think of a man who is obviously embarrassed to be a taxi driver? – I think such a man did not deserve the title of Federal Chancellor in Austria. And there are many people who are my opinion. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Riepl: What do you think of a woman who is pre-punished?]] Once again, the European Citizens' Initiative: This is simply an eye-catching, which is a seeming democratic instrument, because even if all legitimate citizens in the EU were to sign this citizens' initiative, there would be nothing more than that the Commission needs to deal with it seriously. There is no mandatory character. Finally, all these signatures can simply be kept in any basement of the European Commission. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Riepl.]] There are currently uprisings and uprisings across Europe, and people are calling for more democracy. I believe that there is a need for rethinking both in Austria and in the EU and in Europe. A principle of this rethinking should be: We live in a finite world, and in a finite world there is no infinite growth! – If this sentence is dominated and lived, it is likely that a better and more reasonable policy will be possible in Austria and in Europe.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e15523	Next speaker: Deputy Duster. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e15545	Mr President. Dear Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Values listeners! Mrs Winter, one thing I must say to you: If you're sitting in the glasshouse, don't throw stones! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] They say that the current Federal Chancellor as a student as a taxi driver was on his way. But you as a pre-punished person should not judge others here in Parliament. I'd like to put that to your heart. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Singer.]] (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Now on the subject: I am very pleased that we have finally succeeded in completing 15 motions for resolutions on environmental policy, which have been pushed back and forth in the Committee for several years. I am also pleased that in this sensitive matter we finally made a joint request by all the parties here in Parliament. This joint motion for a resolution is also so important to me, because we are here again and again stressing the importance of improving and strengthening the environment and development potential for rural areas. And one of the important assets for rural areas is a clean and safe environment. It is also particularly important for us to maintain security in our country. As a Carinthian, I have been working for many years for a nuclear-free zone beyond the Austrian southern border. I am here with you, Mr Liste, because I too am absolutely committed to doing so. Of course, we are on the road with different success in this regard. On the one hand, I see as a bright view that last June in Italy, at a referendum of 94.1 per cent of the votes against re-entry into nuclear policy, with a vote at least 57 per cent. This also involves the construction of two new nuclear power plants in Italy, which are located in the 30 kilometres away from Venice, heavily earthquake-threatening Chioggia and in the 25 kilometres northwest of Trieste Monfalcone in Friuli, thus close to Carinthia and Styria, from the table. But we must continue to be vigilant. I would like to take this opportunity once again to appeal to you, Mr Environment Minister, to strengthen Austria's opposition to the Slovenian nuclear power plant Krško at European level. The colleague has already said that the Krško nuclear power plant is a great danger to us, it is a high-risk reactor – not only because of its construction, but also because it is on an earthquake break. As mentioned earlier, there has recently been a severe storm there, which is why the power plant had to be driven down. So you can see what danger potential there is. That is why I would like to make the most of my commitment to this nuclear power plant. All in all, we can say that this anti-atomic consensus is very positive, the anti-atomic consensus between the political parties, but also with the population. That last year more than 700 000 Austrians turned off the petition. Now that we have signed the global nuclear exodus, there is a great deal of restraint in our population as far as nuclear policy is concerned. So it can be said that Austria is the pioneer country for a global nuclear exodus – and so it should remain.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e15618	Next speaker: Mr Windholz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e15639	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Minister! High house! The anti-CFC policy of Austria, I can only assist the previous speakers, has now become a model function. I am very convinced of this issue. I myself have brought in a popular desire, there has been a great deal of support from the people, and more than 900,000 people have signed it. It takes time and again an occasion to wake up those who believe, one can conceit all of this, impoverished. Fukushima was now this occasion. This Parliament is doing well – it is now six parties – and with this decision, which will fall unanimously, we are giving the Minister a real political weapon to the entire Federal Government. We are pioneers, and we have a model function. On the big question – that was actually what Mr Hörl said about my surprise here – what the alternatives are, of course, must not be forgotten. Well, they're on hand: Overhead wind power, solar, biomass. And the question is: What can the individual do? Well, that's where I can give you an example from my community. I submitted a project to the European Union within the framework of a city partnership. The title was: Regionally sustainable energy concept. This was recognised as the only of nine projects submitted in Austria to be eligible for support. Our guests came from Placanica, which is in Italy, a municipality in Calabria. That was eight days, and I was really amazed at how much this theme has taken! You know, this personal responsibility that you also take over when giving talks; there were eight intense days. I can also thank my partner, the Bruck energy park at Leitha. If there's still doubt, I'll tell them: Look at this business! In the mid - 1990 ’ s, environmental pioneers created this, then mildly smiled by all, a little as a spinner and titulated. A parade company! A value added in the region where everything has place, where you think about where a pioneer spirit exists. It is true that this is not the case. Thank you very much for the fact that there are such people who are taking things into their hands! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I believe that we have also made a huge increase in the direction of Italy. Then, to all surprise, a member of the government of the regional government in Calabria came to us and took these things with us. We made visits on site. I can now add what the individual can do. You know, the energy you save can be most easily realized, that energy that is not needed. There are many, many measures. In my community, I used an energy officer. It must not happen anymore that someone submits a construction project without devoting himself to this question. You have to raise awareness, you also have to provide documents to make wise decisions here. All we save on energy is already covered by a hundred percent. We don't have to think about that for long. To what extent it is wise that the government parties do not agree with some of the requests now – there are many applications that have been made – this is probably the case of the government parties. Whether they are doing a good job with it, I don't know. Essentially – and this is my core statement – is: This party proposal, which is now carried by all six parties, is, as it were, a weapon. The invitation shall apply to the Federal Government, in particular to Minister Berlakovich: Put that gun in for the benefit of everyone! For nuclear power is a danger that does not know state borders, not at all national borders, district borders or municipal borders. It is a deadly danger that lurks, and the lobbyists must finally put the craft! Austria is a pioneer here.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e15701	Next speaker: Mr Hornek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e15722	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Highly esteemed ladies and gentlemen! High house! This five-party proposal today can make us all happy because it is a striking milestone in the course of anti-atomic politics. And this is – and I am particularly pleased – one-brightly worn by all the parties of this House. Austria waives nuclear energy on the basis of a referendum that took place decades ago. In this context, however, we must not forget that Austria is surrounded by many countries in which nuclear energy is used and where the technological standards do not meet our expectations. Thus, Austria is the core of the anti-atomic movement in Europe – a core division of reason by passing on our knowledge to the others, a highly meaningful question. At the latest, Chernobyl and Fukushima have most understood where it goes. This stress test for problem reactors required by our Minister of State is now a success, because it clearly and clearly shows the problem areas and deals with them accordingly – a success that we can also be proud of together. Ladies and gentlemen! It will surprise you: I am for nuclear fusion – but say clearly and clearly: only on the sun! This is the basis for the renewable energies we use in Austria and where we have technologies to envy other countries that want to buy them from us. All the more so, I am pleased that my home region, the forest district, is heading towards energy autarchy and wants to implement it by a company from the region with the participation of citizens accordingly. What's special for me as a forest quadrupler: There are already 40 people working at this company! Jobs are particularly important in my home region. Dear ladies and gentlemen! This five-party proposal in the field of anti-atomic policy could also be a good example of many other issues in this House.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e15764	Next speaker: Mr Grosz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e15786	High house! In the case of euphoria because of this five-party proposal, it is perhaps a little necessary to find more true words about Austrian nuclear policy. Ladies and gentlemen! Today, in Austria, the real risks involved in nuclear power are still being dealt with. Isel was addressed today. Now I am addressing other projects: five power plant projects in Graz and around Graz, in the Greater Graz region, power plant projects at the Mur, which serve exclusively to produce expensive eco electricity, clean electricity through connection and ESTAG, to sell it expensive, but continue to buy cheap nuclear power for the Austrian network. This is the hypocrisy of the debate: Five-party agreement against nuclear power, against nuclear power – and Austria will continue to demonstrate the Austrian rivers for hard economic reasons and sell the expensive eco electricity abroad in order to continue to pass on the cheap nuclear current to the Austrian households. Mise businessmanship on the back of those people who are actually worried about nuclear power in Austria! First hypocrisy, and the first subsidence. Your Grand Coalitionary Euphoria: With a leaf of paper, the atomic current is then done worldwide. – We're not that far yet! At most, you also actually believe what you are writing, which I really suspect with one or other of you. The second point is to get out of here euphorically and say: Well, Austria has no nuclear power plant; although it has a nuclear power grid, it has no nuclear power station. And in front of our doors – Mr. List has addressed it –: Krško is a scrapmeal who threatens the whole of the South-Austrian region! Carinthia, southern Burgenland, Styria, Graz. If – which would be terrible – an incident in Krško, a reactor incident happens, then in Graz we are in the dangerous zone with inside within an hour! Then South Austria became a restricted area. The Austrian Federal Government does nothing but – what it can best to do – bring five-party requests to calm people down, and write lettering to Zagreb or Liège. Mr. Federal Minister for the Environment, that is too little for us! That's why this five-party union is good and beautiful and should make you even more impenetrable – and not strengthen – because so much has not happened in Austrian nuclear policy anyway, but at last make it even more coined – that Austria will continue or even become a strong voice against the nuclear power in Europe.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e15826	Next speaker: Mr Schopf. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e15849	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It has already been said a lot. Our Group spokesperson and Environment Commissioner, Mr Weninger, thanked the environmental spokespersons of all political groups for their commitment. I would like to thank you, Mr Wenninger. You were the initiator that we are discussing this request today, and I hope that there will also be a unanimous decision in this regard. I think that the anti-atomic policy of the Austrian Federal Government is on the right track and that this proposal is once again a necessary push forward. [[Congratulation of the Abg. May. Gaßner.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! The objective of the proposal is clear: to get out of nuclear energy as quickly as possible, throughout Europe. Ladies and gentlemen, this proposal is more up-to-date than ever – and I say this above all as a mill four-man, who lives on the border with South Bohemia – especially when you observe the situation in the Czech Republic closely, just the last weekend. If you read a big daily, you can unfortunately read: Atomic sound in the Czech Republic. And if you read on: Now it's fixed, the Czech Republic is planning a bright future. By the year 2040, the nuclear power share is to be increased from currently 30 percent to 55 percent, announced Prime Minister Necas. This will significantly reduce the share of coal in electricity generation in return. We see a profit for the entire environment. This is where environmental issues are argued! I think, ladies and gentlemen, that is, of course, a very, very serious problem. We must therefore not only analyse the results of the stress tests, in particular the results of the stress test of the Temelín nuclear power plant, but also the political consequences, together with the Czech Republic, but above all at European level. I also think it is important that the stress tests have not only been carried out now, but that we do everything we can to ensure that there are these stress tests at certain intervals. We must also try to ensure that, in future, Austrian experts are also involved. If there are difficulties – and there are difficulties in a number of nuclear power plants – then it is our job to exert political pressure on these countries: on those countries in which, as has been said, there are difficulties and which are superior to re-establishing, expanding, renovating, renewing nuclear power plants. That's our job. Therefore, with this request – that is a very crucial and important point for me – we also demand the immediate shutdown of all reactors – I address the opposition, as one sees that a number of issues have also been taken over by the opposition, because that is also our opinion – using all available legal remedies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e15902	No one has made any mention of this any more. I therefore conclude the debate. I would ask you to take the seats, because we are going to vote. We shall vote separately on each of the Committee's proposals. First: Vote on agenda item 9: Proposal for a European Parliament and Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations The implementation of the Austrian anti-atomic policy with the aim of adopting a Europe-wide fastest possible exit from nuclear energy. Whoever stands up for this, I ask for a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. (E 272.) Vote on agenda item 10: Proposal from the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection to take note of its report in 1967. In the event of your consent, I ask you for a supportive sign. – This is accepted by a majority. Agenda item 11: Proposal from the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection to take note of its 1968 report. In the event of your consent, I ask you for a supportive sign. – This is accepted by a majority. Vote on agenda item 12: Proposal from the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection to take note of its 1969 report. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. Vote on agenda item 13: Proposal from the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection to take note of its 1970 report. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. Vote on agenda item 14: Proposal from the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection to take note of its report in 1971. In the case of your consent, I would ask you to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. Agenda item 15: Proposal from the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection to take note of its report 1972. In the case of your consent, I would ask you to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. Agenda item 16: Proposal from the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection to take note of its 1973 report. In the case of your consent, I would ask you to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. Vote on agenda item 17: Proposal from the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection to take note of its report 1974. In the case of your consent, I would ask you to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. Vote on agenda item 18: Proposal from the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection to take note of its 1975 report. In the case of your consent, I would ask you to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. [[18:15:38]] 19. Point Report by the Constitutional Committee on Amendment No 2100/A by Mr Mag. Wolfgang Gerstl, Dr. Peter Wittmann, colleagues on a federal law with which the National Council electoral order 1992 as well as the People's Act survey law 1989 (Court of Justice Act 2012) (1994 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e16051	We're coming to 19. Agenda item. Mrs Mag. Mag. is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Steßl-Mühlbacher. Please, Mrs. Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e16075	Mr President. Minister! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen in the House! Yes, the reforms in Styria are continuing. These reforms also have an impact on us as federal legislators, particularly in connection with the popular survey taking place in January. What does this request contain? – In addition to the reforms already carried out in the Styria on democracy package, 1. In January 2013, three political districts merged with three other political districts. The district of Fürstenfeld, which is also part of my constituency, is merged with the district of Hartberg. This situation means that these political districts are no longer comparable to the current regional constituencies. ==References====External links== ==References====External links==* Official website Here, for a long time, an organ manager appointed by the state government or an appointed organ administrator will take over the duties. Through these reforms in Styria, we now need action both in the National Council election order and in the People's Survey Act. First of all, this makes it clear that the organ manager is also equal to the mayor. There is a change in the regional constituencies just mentioned. This change should also be made to ensure that the classification of both the national elections and the national elections is the same. As a third point, after the restructuring of the districts, the competent authorities will be allowed to “accept” voting cards between quotes. There is a repetition of the terms of reference and also an adaptation to the People's Survey Act, in particular to the fact that there is no longer any obligation for the communities to consult questions about ten days, i.e. also about Saturday and Sunday. Overall, we expressly welcome this presentation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e16116	Next speaker: Mr Donabauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e16137	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Actually, my predecessor has already referred to the whole of the law in its meaning, in its extensive complexity. Maybe a few more comments: I think one should make the responsibility in Styria a compliment. They are courageous and make a significant structural change. Three out of six districts are made, and a smaller number of municipalities are made from several municipalities. I know how easy it is to talk about it and how difficult it is! I myself began in 1970 to take over a community that was merged with three other communities in the same year. That's a big challenge. In concrete terms, the urgency is given because of the popular desire of the 20th century. In January 2013, due to this structural change, the relevant legislation is required to: The Commission's proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the ==References====External links== In November, until then, the matter of law must be legally dealt with and put into legal force. It is, as has already been said, about the organ managers. Who has the saying when the mayor's not yet elected? It is also about the re-orientation of the regional constituencies with the assignment of the mandates, and of course it is also about the acceptance of voting cards. Which address will the voting cards be sent to in the future? – This is clearly regulated in the law. It is also about the corresponding terms of reference, which are now repeatedly imposed. It is positive, and this too has already been said, that up until now the issue of popular surveys had to extend over ten days, also on Saturdays and Sundays. This, of course, has been massively criticized by the municipalities because they are usually rarely occupied at the time. The new version of the legislation now sets out the way in which the rallying is to be made on the official board. I think this is a good approach, because the citizen has the full information. If he wants to know more, he can get additional information from the municipal office. Otherwise, the corresponding transparency is clearly given. We will vote in favour of this legislative measure and hope that it will be implemented and that the popular survey will take place on 20 June. January can be positive accordingly.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e16185	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Stefan. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e16207	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It has already been done twice exactly what it is all about. It's a tiny little thing in itself: Something is adjusted to what was carried out in the Styria. We take note of this and will therefore also vote because it is simply and simply a useful addition to understand that municipalities and districts have been merged. - So far, so good. It has also been pointed out in the Committee that this is a wonderful development of direct democracy. With confidence said: I can't see that in any way. We're also talking great about the popular survey on the 20th. January 2013, and we know very well that in reality this is only a better survey of the population, an official opinion poll, which is claimed to be binding. But it is by no means binding. So this is not the development of direct democracy! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In fact, we are disappointed by the opposition that there has been a halt in the development. We had the impression that something is actually going on, namely in the sense that we are bringing forward the essential points concerning direct democracy in Austria. It is this, first of all, to make the citizens' initiative and popular desire more attractive as such. There's a broad consensus on what you could do so that the initiators don't feel so easily swept away. This may be dealt with here in Parliament, even though you have made an incredible effort, and that was it. This would have to be more concrete. It is, of course, also a matter of making the really essential changes, namely, first of all to enforce the right of initiative of the people, that is to say, the right of initiative of the people. that a popular desire, through a popular initiative, can actually get out of the population a legislative initiative, and not just from Parliament. That would be the decisive step! This is what we are working on, and we are very concerned that this is not being pushed into the long bank. The danger exists, and it is now again seen that the dates are being pushed out more and more, then the new year is coming, then the popular survey is coming and then the next election is at the door again. Then nervousness begins, and the government parties are able to push the whole thing out so far that there is no real reform. We will work precisely on the fact that this does not happen and that there is this real effect of further development of direct democracy, in the sense that it is granted its right to the people. We are confident that we will work on it. However, I also see certain signs that the willingness of SPÖ and ÖVP in the point is not very great. If they convinced me that I was wrong, I'd be glad.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e16261	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Musiol. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e16282	Mr President. Minister! My previous speakers have already said that an adjustment has been or will be made, which is quite welcome. However, many opportunities have not yet been used, and in this respect I would like to follow Mr Stefan's comments. Today, we are also adapting the People's Survey Act, which also regulates the rallying. It may be time-consuming, and I have already mentioned this in the Committee when we voted against the fact that one no longer keeps the "offices" open, I say, in the Volksjargon, over the weekend, because people can also learn differently in times of the Internet. The fact is, however, that all direct democratic instruments – whether they be the weak ones we now have, or the strong ones we want as the green ones, namely really binding direct democratic instruments – are essential, and that is good information. Not only Switzerland, but also other countries make this happen to us. In Switzerland there is the so-called voting booklet. It is there clearly the task of the Office to disseminate a neutral information on pro and counter initiatives. Taking into account the terms of office, so that people cannot also be informed during the weekend, and not to work at the same time on innovations in the information transfer, which is actually the core of our criticism. Another criticism is that we have been able to reach agreement on projects that we have already started to discuss in this parliamentary reform working group. There were also many points where we had no unity – direct democracy, for example, Mr. Klubobmann Cap – in which there is a need for even deeper discussions. I share your opinion that there is a need for well-prepared discussions. As it is now happening again – saying: no more meeting for two months, no more prospects for further discussions – I am afraid that the parliamentary reform working group has only been used to lead a public debate, namely, to the reduction of the National Council and the Federal Council in some way into a working group. They all know the saying concerning the working group: If you don't know any more, you start a working group. Col. Scheibner nodds. We know this also from the administrative reform, for which I know that there has been no meeting in the Subcommittee for two and a half years, in the Constitutional Committee. And there's nothing going on. Once again, it is necessary to say clearly that this working group is to be terminated, if not really a result, and that other ways must be taken. This is also why – not only for this reason – I propose a citizens' convention. I've already done this in committee. Island put it in motion. There was a lot to do in Iceland about the economic crisis. The Icelandic government has seen that it is also necessary to work intensively on democratic issues and has not done so from above, but has set up a Council of 25 people, a Constitutional Council elected in advance, who has worked on a Constitution. Three weeks ago, the Icelandic people voted on this Constitution. It was questioned, and 66 percent voted in favour. And in that case, the government has made a confession that it feels bound to the outcome of this vote. I am convinced that, if we do not manage to carry out meaningful democratic reforms beyond party logic and party interests, whether it be the right to vote, direct democracy or also anti-corruption, we should involve the people. Why not start a participative process after the example of Iceland or perhaps also with changes in which all citizens can participate, and look at what the population wants? [[Abg. Scheibner: You could show that in Vienna!]] This applies not only if it is politically acceptable, as in the case of this People's Survey, because ÖVP and SPÖ cannot agree on the obligation to do so and therefore make an official opinion, but also on the really essential issues of our democracy, an essential question of our state. That is why I also propose: If nothing goes on in this working group, let's look at how we can organize such a convention, and let's listen to what the citizens want.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e16322	Next speaker: Mr Scheibner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e16343	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Let's listen to what the citizens want, Mrs. Colleague! That sounds very good. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Bravo!]] That sounds very good, Mr Commissioner of the Greens. However, the problem is: If you were able to implement it, like the Greens in Vienna, then it sounds quite different again. I recall the popular survey on the Parkpickerl, which requested 150 000 Vienneses. Then, suddenly, the Greens were not so much in favour of direct democracy at all, because it might have been different than you would have wanted it to be. This is the problem with direct democracy: You cannot even be in favour of it if you just fit it, and be against it once if the result might not fit in that way, because every dictatorship, Mrs Musiol, is for direct democracy and opinion polls, if she can manipulate her herself and if it fits if it fits her right now. A genuine democracy, a genuine direct democracy, is to be supported even if the population has a different opinion than you just have. And in Vienna you have given a very bad witness to your commitment to this kind of direct democracy. [[In the case of BZÖ and FPÖ, as well as of the Abg. Jewel beater.]] In another context, I do not share Mr Stefan's optimism, namely that something will come out of these working groups. We will now vote in favour of this proposal, but I really regret that we have not done anything else. There is direct democracy in this working group, there is a subcommittee on administrative reform, there is a group on the Rules of Procedure, there is a group on the Security and Defence Doctrine, in which we all sit together, and I do not exclude anyone, no representative, even those of the government groups that have been sitting in these bodies for days and weeks, doing really intense and honest work. Some secretariats or other institutions of red and black that we cannot influence at all seem to have quite different opinions. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: St. Pölten!]] – Yes, St. Pölten, our federal uncle, of course, who then seems to give some instructions. [[Abg. Hoefinger: That's not right! He doesn't!]] - Please? You don't? - No, now I'm telling you one, dear colleague: Thank you! I'm always happy when people of the ÖVP throw the hives out of the previous or third last row. My colleague, you're a member of the National Council, aren't you? Independent, freely elected Member of the National Council! Representative democracy! And just like all of us here, you would have to do a very bad job here, you, too, or work, sitting in the committees, sitting in the working groups, sitting in the subcommittees and feeling that there is actually a consensus. And only because anyone who is not democratically legitimate for the federal legislation, who sits somewhere in a chamber, in an association, in a federal country that does not want what we can all decide together, does not do so. Dear colleague, even if now you look so completely concentrated in your laptop: You don't care! You can't say, we'll leave it that way now. Or, dear colleague? Or do we get out of these committees and these working groups? Now he doesn't say anything. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: He's not talking to you!]] So first call in, but then don't get into the dialogue. That's unfortunate. Let's say it again. We agree with the proposal. This is a necessity due to the reforms in the Styria, but it is a pity that in this legislative period – I am afraid it will not happen much more next year – we will no longer bring together in the reform of electoral law, in the instruments of direct democracy and in the personalisation of electoral law. It would be very, very necessary for us to carry something forward, as did all the other subcommittees, working groups and subgroups that did a lot of work but unfortunately did not deliver any results.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e16442	Next speaker: Mr Hagen. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e16464	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! In principle, I would like to say that we too Team Stronach will agree to this bill. We are very positive about this, especially the measures in the country of Styria, where districts have been merged for reasons of economy. I think it is reasonable to put together districts, which are somewhat too large and in which there is partly too little population, where the administration costs a lot of money. I also do not want to hide the fact that we agree to this right to vote and consider it necessary. In particular, however, I would also like to address these mergers. It is reasonable and to force one to congregate districts or communities. You can do a lot of things there. Today we have the problem – you all know it – in the less densely populated areas, that it is hardly possible to find a mayor in the communities. We are quite clear to community associations where the meaning makes, where the distance is so low, that certain communities simply grow together. I would like to give an example from my native Vorarlberg. ==References====External links== It consists of five municipalities, the market municipality of Hörbranz, Hohenweiler, Lochau, Eichenberg and Mögger and has a total area of 50 square kilometres, mostly forest. This area is 2% of Vorarlberg. I have already proposed this spring that these communities should be merged into a city community, because I think it is reasonable. Now I'll explain to you why. We have carried out a combination of the construction offices outside these communities. Only a community did not want to subordinate itself. So four communities now have a joint building office. A community was unable to do so for political reasons, because there were probably some people there. The value court is the next problem. Two municipalities have already assembled this valuable yard, the other three do not bring together any valuable yard because the combination does not work. It would be reasonable if all five went together. The capacity in the two municipalities in which this value-added court has already been assembled would exist. You could save there. We could save community representatives, we could save parish councils, we could save mayors, and I think it would be just reasonable to think something more modern. The structures we have are all from the time of the monarchy, from which we are already far away. I am of the opinion that the administration is generally reformed. I would also like to address the 22 social security institutions in this connection. We all know how the money will be fried there. More than €900 million of contributions are sent to the administration alone. You could do a lot of things if you put them together as an institution. I offer you: Ladies and gentlemen! If we also trust in great things about it, we cremate the sleeves up and pick them up together!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e16515	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Gerstl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e16536	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, The lamentation of the opposition is clearly too early. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Too early?]] – Too early, for I can tell you, Mrs Glawischnig: You will receive an appropriate template from us. This government is working. This government will surprise you with the proposal we will bring to direct democracy. [[Abg. May. Stefan: So what now? The government or the deputies?]] – This government will bring them in, based on what you, Mr Stefan, have previously done in her contribution, on what we have discussed in the working group, on what we have really discussed in detail. The points where we have reached agreement are: In the future, we want people's desires, citizens' requests and citizens' initiatives to be sent online to Parliament. We will make this possible with a new electoral evidence. We will revitalize popular desire by conducting our own popular meetings here in Parliament. We will also have a first reading of this, and we will also allow citizens' requests here in Parliament. I'll invite you to join us to make that possible. Not only should mandates have the opportunity to make requests to ministers, but also a certain number of citizens should be able to make these requests to ministers. We have already reached agreement on this, Mrs Musiol. I think you'll stay there and be there. You're on board, then we can decide all of this very, very quickly. [[Abg. May. Musiol: Until the end of the year!]] We will bring this up before the end of the year, Mrs Musiol, a hundred percent, you can rely on it. We also want to ensure something else, because we are different from you, Mrs Musiol, when it comes to the form of how citizens can decide which mandates can come to this House. We want to see a stronger right to find out who is going to come to Parliament directly on the ground. We want to reduce the number of preferred votes needed to make it even easier for each candidate to be elected. I would like to ask you to take part in the fact that both the regional constituencies and the national constituencies and the federal constituencies will have the opportunity to get to Parliament more easily by means of preferential votes. This should close the gap between the representatives and the representatives, or at least make it smaller. This is our task in democracy: to enable more direct democracy, more exchange of views and more direct responsibility. In this sense, I invite you all to join you accordingly.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e16599	Next speaker: Mr Pack. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e16621	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! My previous speaker gave me a good word, namely the list setting and the opportunity to move into Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen! My preliminary speakers have already explained the matter sufficiently. I'm one of those directly affected. My car is currently still wearing the registration number HB for Hartberg, but from next year on it is HF for Hartberg-Fürstenfeld. As a member of this constituency, who is sitting on a direct mandate so to speak, I am very glad that this regulation is now in place in good time, not only before the public survey, but also in good time before the next National Council election, because of course it is also prepared. If you want to register or act, then some fundamental questions must be clarified. Especially when a district is assembled, which is not in the same constituency, questions arise: What constituency do you run? As a Hartberger, can you even register in both constituencies? – Now all the questions have been resolved for us in the East Styria. This proposal has, of course, been formulated in agreement with the Styria. As a result, the Styria will also check. This is, of course, to be welcomed, because it was possible to achieve a clean solution for the constituencies in Styria, not only as regards the national elections, but also as regards the country elections. To what extent this develops for an advantage or if it becomes more difficult to do so. In one constituency, which up to now has two districts, 104 municipalities, about 150,000 inhabitants, it was still possible to communicate directly, as many political contacts as possible. In the future, there are four or more. In January, three districts with a total of 260 000 inhabitants and the double number of municipalities will also change over the next few years. Let's see what it's like in the future. [[Abg. May. Schickhofer: We will do this!]] - That's right! In this sense: Thank you many times for your consent!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e16657	Next speaker: Mr. Klubobmann Dr. Cap. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e16679	Mr President. High house! We have already held intensive discussions, both in the working group of Parliament, in the committee, and here in plenary. I have also suggested that we should, in principle, talk about why, at certain times, the direct democratic to extreme form of the automatic liability is being brought into the discussion; whether this is related to the fact that many citizens are also dissatisfied with the opposition and say: They no longer represent what we can imagine as a correction of politics, we would like to have a political bypass to be able to express ourselves without opposition. The question is: Who is this? And what justifys this fundamental criticism of a functioning political system in Austria? Over the course of today, we have had the opportunity to see the data in a European comparison. I don't want to repeat this, everyone knows it: In terms of employment, growth, education, research, we are exemplary! We still have a functioning democratic system, with appropriate participation. With us, participation is much greater compared to many other highly developed industrialized countries. Even though I am thinking of comparison with Germany, we are actually exemplary in the direct democratic instruments that we already have. We have the popular desire, the referendum and the popular survey – a popular survey will soon take place on the subject of military service and professional service – also at country level, there are voting on the community alliances in Styria. That's why you can't say there's nothing there. It cannot be said that, as in the final phase of the GDR, we must sit at a round table and invent a completely new system, with a huge convention. It is not true that nothing works anymore, so why bring this radicality into the debate? That's something I don't quite understand. But what I have proposed is that one should discuss once so that one does not pour out the political child with the political bath. I'd encourage that. On the other hand, Mr Gerstl mentioned a number of points, and I must say: That is true, these points were always recurring both in the working group and in the discussions between us – whether this is the question of citizens, whether this is a better online establishment with a electorate, in the various instruments that are already available in part. I just have to say: We also need to make all of this more concrete when it comes to extending the preferred votes, we need to debate and discuss it widely; for this is something that is quite effective and not underestimable, and I must say, on many of these points: It must then also fit, this must be practical and feasible! We are at the beginning of this debate, we will have to debate this in the same way as the others in Parliament, and I assume that we will have to discuss it in detail. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Linder.]] – You don’t even make country elections in good time when it calls for the majority, but there is this system that you leave the Carinthian countryside so you can’t decide there is a country election. The fact that you are even talking about direct democracy is four steps too far ahead. But you can still understand something in your own immediate political life, in Carinthia, which is just added. [[Abg. You too!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We have always been open to the fact that in some areas we are organized more slenderly, in some areas even expanding. This also has a solidar compensation function. A state also has the task of bringing adversarial interests into a hat. Imagine what happens when a certain direct democratic understanding leads to the fact that one cannot even put a power line, not even run a motorway, or that the railway can no longer be further expanded where it should be extended! I am now a little too late, but I think there are some who dream of it and want to question the compensatory, coordinating, solidarity function of a state organization. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Musiol.]] Not you, no, of course not, but I've got something there and there. In this context, I believe that we must always point out that we should be very, very careful and that we must be ready to take steps sometimes, even if we only get on with the third or fourth of these steps, that this makes sense. This means that I come from the other side to the Parkpickerl debate in Vienna. To introduce and to say, afterwards we ask, and not even that, that is something, which I think is the following thought behind it: Let us take this step by step; it will develop the power of the Factical a persuasion, and then perhaps in the final effect with this sense of sense will be so that it may make sense in this way, as it was introduced. But, of course, a previous speaker has already pointed out a bit of a contradiction when I hear, in practice, as it happens, on the part of the planning city council in Vienna, and on the other hand, I am confronted with this extreme form of greenery. This, of course, has to be a little together, today in the debate contribution. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Musiol.]] I just want to say that there is a tension between these state organisational structures at federal, national, municipal and many particular interests and particular initiatives, which, of course, under the cover of direct democracy, as I shall say, are often justified, but where the factor of commitment must fit into the generality of these democratically legitimate state structures such as a parliament, a country day and a municipal council. We must be careful, because it can and must not be the result that at the end of the day the state, the community, the country, the structures are not capable of action – for I do not want to know what the alternative is and what comes out then. Therefore: Principle debate, detailed, exactly look at the models and then act and not overturn anything.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e16742	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Stefan. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e16764	Mr President. Mr. Minister! The two speeches by Mr Gerstl and Mr Cap have, of course, provoked me to say something here. Gerstl's speech was classically what we were afraid of in these discussions, which have already been held. There is a consensus on things that do not hurt anyone, namely to make popular desires more attractive, to make the citizens' initiatives a little more attractive, then to introduce a citizen's request, a citizen's request that already exists in the form of the mandatory information law – and then, in reality, to close the lid and to abandon the legislative initiative, which would be really interesting. [[Abg. Head: direct democracy hurts?]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That is what I have already done in these meetings. When it said, well, there's a consensus to a large extent, I said it must be clear that we don't stop there, because otherwise exactly what we're afraid of is that the government parties take this as their cover: We have further developed direct democracy, and that concludes. There was also clear agreement on this committee from all sides, including ÖVP and SPÖ, that it was said, no, we are also of this opinion, we also want to enforce this legislative initiative. Now I hear again the basic – except, I have to admit now, Klubobmann Cap, who has always said, we have to talk about it in principle. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Cap]] I'd say, that means as much as: He doesn't like it. [[Cheerfulness at the BZÖ.]] But you have noted this again discreetly today. It is always spoken of, well, then there are no more roads, then there are no lines, then in reality the Republic is paralysed. It is very strange that these people, who obviously want to paralyze the Republic, should most of the time choose the SPÖ and perhaps the ÖVP. I don't understand whether these are the same people you want to be elected for, for whom you make a campaign to paralyze the Republic. This is always what the big contradiction is: The population may choose the last hort of reason, namely the Members here, but it itself must not become an initiative – and there we already have to leave the church in the village! I admit, you have to discuss all of this in detail, not a question. You can't shoot out of there. There are sufficient obstacles, such as a citizens' initiative, such as a popular desire, to a legislative initiative, which is a major burden. There really has to be a bill. That's nothing you shoot in the blue like that. Our clear concepts provide that Parliament will then be involved. That is to say, this legislative initiative is being applied to Parliament, with sufficient support signatures. There is then a discussion about the possibility of Parliament to say yes, that is something we see in the same way, and then at least to make even small corrections and then to make the law here or to put it to the vote. That is to say, there is no elimination of Parliament in our initiatives, in our ideas, but there is a clear addition. It is not a question of removing a system that is supposed to work so well, but it is a matter of seeing clearly that there is a very different attitude in the population on concrete issues when it finds itself here. Let us think only of the Lisbon Treaty, i.e. the EU Constitution, or of the enlargement of the East, and much more, where the surveys have clearly shown that the vast majority of the population sees it quite different from that of the Members. This opportunity must be given to the population! That is our firm conviction, which is why we are in favour of the further development of direct democracy. Last comment: Kärnten has succeeded in solving the issue of the local map with the government that now has it, and has also carried out a public survey, if I have to admit, not all the formal requirements as we would like it to be. On the topic of direct democracy: First of all, this is a solution to an incredibly big problem that has been going on for decades, and then the integration of the population. So this is still to be criticized and claimed here, in practice one must test it, that has gone to the back. So I can only say, Please don't pull back! – or: Clubobmann Cap, I have to admit, is the only one who has always slowed down so far. But to everyone else: Please don't stand here now! Mr Gerstl, you have also clearly said that you are in favour of the legislative initiative. Now don't close the lid with really small cosmetic changes, for which I am also! As far as I have now heard this orally, it seems to be largely consensus. But that cannot be the goal of what we understand by further development of democracy.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e16819	Next speaker: Mr Grosz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e16841	To Mr Klubobmann Cap, who meant that Austria was a parade example of democracy. [[Abg. Wenninger: You are!]] I now call you a few examples of democracy on your anthem, where you have trodden democracy in Austria. A few weeks ago, you turned off the investigation committee on the investigation of corruption here in this National Council. This has something to do with many, but unfortunately God's nothing to do with democracy. They kept feeling in this house, I don't know exactly, but I guess, 6,000, 7,000 speeches, so many of them will have been in the last 30 years. At least in the last 3,000 speeches, Mr Klubobmann Cap, you have always talked about strengthening the minority rights of this National Council on behalf of democracy – until now. I don't know what this has to do with democracy. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Gaßner.]] Only recently, a few months ago, you served a first-class funeral to your comrade Androsch's educational desire here in this house. What it has to do with democracy to treat popular desires in the way the Austrian National Council does, and that for years and decades you have been able to answer it yourself, Mr Klubobmann Cap! How far it is from democracy, if we treat legitimate citizen petitions in this National Council in the Committee on Petitions under the chairman Ursula Haubner, but here in Parliament under a collective report, Mr Klubobmann, push away and work in five minutes – and most of the time thousands of people have signed these petitions – you must do this to me first of all, what this has to do with democracy! [[OBJECTIVES]] Mr. Klubobmann Cap! What does it have to do with democracy that, at the height of an economic crisis and in the rise in youth unemployment, the politicians in this country approve a salary increase of 1.8 percent? [[Call:Participation promotion]] [[Abg. Head: A lot!]] What does that have to do with democracy, where we know that the majority of Austrians have to tighten the belt first and, secondly, in the majority of Austrians? No to a 1.8% salary increase would say if the care money was being removed at the same time and other social benefits were tilted by the red-black government in the country? [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Krainer and Mr Riepl.]] Dear Mr Klubobmann Cap, last but not least: What does it have to do with democracy, that we now have five Members in the last row who have never been elected, have never been elected as a club and have now benefited from democratic rights and established a club that costs us 2 million euros a year? [[Interlocutory calls to the ÖVP and to the Deputies Mag. Gaßner and Kitzmüller.]] Tell us, tell the Austrians what this has to do with democracy, Mr. Klubobmann Cap a club that has never been elected, € 2 million a year, an additional clubmanngage and the expansion of personal vanity and egoisms! [[Abg. Riepl: Think about why they're gone!]] Finally, I would like to know what this has to do with democracy.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e16976	No one is reporting on this. I therefore conclude the debate. We shall now proceed to the vote. Vote on the draft law and its title and receipt in 1994 of the supplements. I would like to ask those Members who are in favour of the draft to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. Whoever agrees to the draft in third reading, I ask for a sign. - That's unanimity. The draft was therefore adopted at third reading. [[Call the SPÖ: Go on!]] [[18:59:45]] 20. Point report of the Constitutional Committee on Amendment 2057/A by Dr Peter Wittmann, Mag. Peter Michael Ikrath, Dr. Peter Fichtenbauer, Mag. Albert Steinhauser, Ernest Windholz, colleagues concerning a federal law with which the Federal Law on the Relations of the Supreme Institutions of the Federal Republic of Germany, the members of the National Council and the Federal Council and the members of the European Parliament, sent by Austria (Bundesbeziehmengesetz – BBezG), BGBl. No. 64/1997, amended (1995, e.g.)
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e17031	We're coming to the 20th. Agenda item. There is no word for this. We shall therefore proceed immediately to the vote on the draft law, including the title and receipt of the supplements in 1995. I would like to ask those Members who are in favour of the draft to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. If you also agree with this draft at third reading, I would ask for a sign. – This is just as unanimous. The draft was therefore adopted at third reading. [[19:00:52]] 21. Point Report of the Family Committee on the Government Template (1908 e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law amending the Family Law on Compensation in 1967 (1963 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e17081	I'll call 21. Agenda item. Mrs Steibl came to speak. Please, Mrs. Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e17105	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! With this amendment of the Family Tax Compensation Act, the legal basis for the performance of a flat-rate remuneration to transport associations is agreed. The background to this is a pilot project already implemented in Vienna, Lower Austria and Burgenland. This top youth ticket, as it is called, is now to be extended to all federal states. [[President Dr. Graf takes over the chairmanship.]] Especially children and young people from patchwork families, for example, benefit from the new system, because they had to indicate until now which route is to be covered by the free ride. An amendment tabled by my colleague, Mr Binder-Maier, and from my side now includes an extension of the category of beneficiaries for school leavers to medical assistants. This will create a scheme that will not create additional costs for FLAF and will make a significant improvement for children, young people and families. The Federal Minister intends to continue this scheme, which now applies to three countries, to other federal states. For this I wish him good luck that this may be successful. As has been said, the Minister of Family Reinhold Mitterlehner has achieved an important milestone in strengthening our families. I would also like to address what Federal Minister Mitterlehner presented on Monday, namely that he wants to support Austria's families even better, simpler and more transparently with a new funding model in the future. I think that is also a good way to go, because then every family knows what it is all about, by simplifying family support and, of course, by what we are already doing. And when it is said that you should not forget about the compatibility of work and family, I can calm everyone: That's one of the most important points. I would just like to mention that 70 million are again intended for the free kindergarten year and 15 million each for the extension of childcare for children under the age of three. Overall, this is, I believe, a very good, very smart and very well thought out package for the families, for children and young people in Austria. Minister, good for the negotiations with the other federal states!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e17150	The next speaker is Mrs Binder-Maier. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e17172	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, this novelle is positive in relation to the family tax compensation law, but this benefit benefits the children, the parents, the families. In this context, it is also helpful to mention that patchwork families will also benefit from this new system. So far, children in families with more than one residence had no right to free ride if they were commuting between parents. With a route map and a free pass, it is now possible to carry out these journeys, and the new system also brings an administrative simplification. With an annual contribution of €60, the use of all public transport within a transport area is permitted. And now it is actually about the package ticket being implemented in the other regions of Austria. We will decide the legal requirements today. In an amendment, the group of stakeholders was extended, as already mentioned, and our speaker for disabled people, Ulli Königsberger-Ludwig, drew our attention to another group of people in the course of the debate. These are those young people who are employed in more than 100 projects by non-profit organisations and are being prepared in a course for the first labour market. In 2011, 2 595 young people under the age of 25 were employed in these funded projects. It is a qualification measure, where various skills are promoted and vocational training is the focus. And my Minister, I hear signals that you are thinking about enabling and making available this group of young people. [[Call the BZÖ: ‘My Minister’?]] The negotiations are being conducted, and I am expressly grateful to you, Federal Minister, that you are especially interested in this group of people who are truly not easy in their lives and in their further development, who are willing and also committed to receiving the youth ticket. Perhaps in the course of an evaluation of the pilot project, you can also think about a fundamental extension of the relationship. In this sense, I wish you all the best for the negotiations. I think this is in the sense of a greater mobility and also in the sense of environmental protection and in the sense of our children and young people in training. Thank you very much. Of course, we give our approval to this novel.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e17205	The next speaker is Mrs Kitzmüller. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e17227	Mr President. Mr. Minister! This government template will be approved. We find it very reasonable to extend that to medical and technical professions, which are also involved, especially in terms of saying that we have patchwork families or also care by grandparents, which is also the case in many cases. We also believe that this expansion of performance is a very good support for families. Of course, we also hope that the Minister with the federal states will be more fortunate and more successful than in some other projects that he has not yet been able to implement, because different federal states have crossed. Our consent is also given to the possibility of paying in order to increase these benefits even further and to increase support for the families. In this sense, we hope that we will also find a common solution in other areas within the meaning of our families and, of course, we will agree to the additional proposal here.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e17257	Next speaker: Mrs Windbüchler-Sushill. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e17278	Mr President. Dear Minister! Of course, the top youth ticket, which young people can now use in Lower Austria, Burgenland and Vienna, is very welcome. And it is also to be welcomed that this initiative should be extended throughout Austria, and this basis, this law will be adopted here. 60 € for a whole year, even during the holidays, is a good opportunity for young people not only to shape their mobility environmentally friendly and environmentally conscious but in principle to create self-determined mobility. And, of course, that's supposed to be the first foreign exchange. For young people – we know this from the debates and all the research and discussion – mobility is a very, very important thing. However, these see the invisible boundaries as no barrier, but they do not perceive the invisible limits for them as if there were a federalism, as if there were, in fact, other laws of youth protection in every federal state. Young people, for example, live in Burgenland, go to school in Styria, meet friends in Upper Austria and go to Salzburg Snowboarden. This is their everyday life, their reality in life. Unfortunately, however, the law on the protection of young people has still not been adapted and harmonised to meet the everyday reality of young people. It is all the more important not only to negotiate the youth ticket, but my appeal is also to the experts and the minister to bring youth protection to a very clear meeting, because I am convinced that the extension of the youth ticket does not work without harmonisation of the protection of young people. Conversely, it's the same. This project has so far failed, despite the discussions, despite the results, despite the proposals, despite all efforts. But the result of this legislative period cannot be that, at the end of the day, there is still no harmonisation of the laws on the protection of young people. The extension of the youth ticket and the protection of young people belongs together. As a second point in this discussion, the extension to a student ticket has also been repeatedly addressed. I would like to personally welcome this, because the situation of the universities and universities in Austria is also state-owned. And it is not imperative that young people who study also live where they study, but mobility is clearly used there. The Committee noted that this expansion would cost about €127 million, but it appears that the financial possibilities are not present. At the same time, the ÖVP Niederösterreich and the Young ÖVP Niederösterreich demand quite clearly that the federal government implement this student ticket quickly, which they call top student ticket. They want it to be introduced throughout the country. I assume that there is a consensus within the ÖVP in this regard and I am also pleased about further discussions – including in the Committee – and perhaps even about a very soon legislative situation, because I cannot assume that it is only an election sugar in the Lower Austrian country election campaign.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e17327	Next speaker: Mrs Haubner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e17348	Mr President. Federal Minister! Much has already been said on this issue. To be mobile is the legitimate desire not only of older people, but also of young people, especially when it comes to making their free time, but also of driving from the place of residence to the workplace or to the school. And there is a great importance for public transport. We from BZÖ therefore welcome this further development of the current free travel or support for free travel, which in 2012 cost €430 million in public money, since it naturally supports mobility, but also the leisure behaviour of young people. We are happy to give our support to this new project, because it has a contemporary form, at one time only in Vienna, Lower Austria and in Burgenland. That means that this is for about 500,000 students and also apprentices. This is 40 percent of the young people in Austria who are enjoying this opportunity. We are happy to give our consent as it is a cost-effective offer with this 60 € in the East Transport Association, and I also say this as a grandmother of three grandchildren, who are almost 16 and 14 years old and very pleased about it. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Especially at this age, you want to be particularly mobile. The third reason why we would like to give our consent is the fact that administrative costs are saved. You, Minister of State, have included these approximately € 4.7 million were calculated, as first of all no longer required to print out and issue application forms, and second, no payment certificates need to be issued for self retention. So that's a good way. We would also like to support you in the further negotiations with the other federal states and for this reason we have on 6 June. In July, a resolution was also tabled on the extension of youth mobility throughout the country. We want these opportunities to be offered not only to young people in eastern federal states, i.e. those in Vienna, Lower Austria and Burgenland, but also to those in all other federal states. And I hope that our proposal, which has naturally been postponed, is nevertheless a great support for you so that you can implement it quickly.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e17396	Next speaker: Mr Markowitz. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e17418	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! The youth ticket, which has now been introduced at a moderate price of €60, is absolutely welcome, and we will also support it. So far, there has only been this in Vienna, Lower Austria and Burgenland. Mr Minister, I really hope you will renegotiate the Austrian Federal Youth Act in the course of the negotiations on Austrian implementation. It cannot be that one thing that is really good in the approach really fails to two federal states. We wish you all the best in this regard and hope that next year or at the latest in two years we will talk about the implementation of an Austrian Federal Youth Protection Act. I believe that we need this in the future, because our youth is the highest good and should therefore also receive the best vocational training. If we decide here for the young people cheap tickets, so also implement for apprentices, then that is the right way, I think. I wish you all the best in this regard. Next year we will talk about the Federal Youth Protection Act again, and in the best case it will be implemented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e17448	Mr Mitterlehner spoke on a point of view. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e17469	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I also agree with the ladies and gentlemen who have now spoken. This is a good thing that we will hopefully decide with the support of all the parties as far as possible. The final effect is to increase the mobility of young people and to refer to the living situation of young people. This is not only limited to the parental place of residence and school, but is much wider. There is also a cost-effective variant with the €60 and it is also cost-neutral as regards our budget. What you decide today is de facto the authorisation to enter into a contract even in the package area, i.e. to create the formal basis for it. It is nice if you also want to help me with the implementation in the other federal states. Web means: You have to give me money because the situation is just another one. The advance, the East Transport Association, is simply financial. It has a different constellation than the other federal states. That's why it's about the payments. It is not particularly helpful for me to say that this group and the group and also the students are supposed to be there because the funding would not be given. That is why we also hope that we will bring about a sort of financial variant for ourselves. We will also report to Parliament and hope to be able to conclude the negotiations next year and thus to have a scheme for the school year 2013/14 for all other federal states – which is also adequate to the regulation that exists in Vienna, Lower Austria and Burgenland. This must not be much higher or different than the regulation we are now considering. In this sense, I thank you for your support. As for all other questions or proposals relating to youth protection, I must say: Wonderful, give me the expertise, I'll be happy to do this! This is not the competence of the Federal Government, but it is a question which must be clarified in advance in a convention with the countries, and if the question of competence is clarified, we will not have a problem to implement it accordingly into a legislative text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e17512	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Fuhrmann. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e17533	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr Federal Minister, I am sorry that it is obviously not possible to discuss in the House an application, which is carried by all parties, also in terms of content, subject matter and to highlight what it is about, namely, the youth ticket. That's a great thing. This must be supported. That's what the Minister has achieved. That's positive. In Vienna you would have paid €80 or almost €80 for this if you had extended to different zones than the main route. Now it costs 60 €. That's exactly what this law matter is all about. We have already discussed the many advantages. Mrs. Windbüchler-Souschill, if you are now talking about the shame that everything has not been achieved, then it may be the oppositional task you are writing down here. But in principle it is sad that it is not even possible for such a matter, in such a positive law, to produce and say here as an opposition party: Minister, thank you, that's great, because that would actually be in line with the law. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Windbüchler-Sauschill.]] I believe that Mr Mitterlehner has shown a great deal of courage and persuasiveness in the past as well as has affected other areas of the Youth Protection Act, and has also been discussed with the countries. Perhaps a lever can also be put on the move from your side to convince the one or the other federal state that this is a good thing. I think he did everything in his power. Now, in relation to this law, it is important to see that we can also extend the youth ticket to the federal states. According to my information booth, the Federal State of Carinthia has already articulated that it wants to participate. If that until 2013, 2014 all other federal states also I think that this would be at least as good a support for young people as would a uniform Federal Youth Protection Act, for which we, of course, also stand.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e17584	Next speaker: Mrs Lueger. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e17606	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I think the top youth ticket in Vienna, Lower Austria and Burgenland has shown how good it is for young people to be quite simply mobile. Full mobility for young people is what they understand by freedom, which allows them to be outside the area of parents and to move there. The number of those who took advantage of this ticket shows how well it was quite simply prepared. And I am very glad that it is also planned now or, as it were, we are creating the legal basis for rolling this out for the rest of Austria, so that it can also benefit those young people who are not currently enjoying this benefit. The fact that has not yet been stressed is that many young people who have not yet had a right to school leave and are now equally mobile with the youth ticket also benefit from it, which is extended on weekends, holidays, Sundays and holidays. I believe that it is also very important that you come to the youth ticket in a very simple way, in trafiken, on the Internet and in pre-services. This would also be a good action if this would ultimately work in the other federal states. This bill actually corresponds to the present quality of life and life realities of young people living in patchwork families, with grandparents, with stepparents. And it is sometimes – and the colleague has already said this – an administrative simplification. Nevertheless, we are of course very pleased about the planned negotiations that you will also be conducting. But I hope that you will also be able to involve the disabled young people, because I think otherwise we will have difficulties with the law on equal treatment for the disabled, which would not be in the sense of this positive thing.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e17643	Next speaker: Mr. Hörl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e17664	Mr President. Federal Minister! My previous speakers have already said that we are now creating the legal flat rate for the transport associations. This is about the 60 € ticket that the federal states of Vienna, Lower Austria and Burgenland introduced. Of course, it would be useful if we could extend this to the entire federal territory. [[Abg. Oellinger: On the cable cars!]] This, of course, puts massive pressure on the West. I also don't quite understand why the tariff is designed in this way. It seems that these federal states and the Federal Capital are getting much more money for public transport than the western federal states. At least this is the case with us in Tyrol. Be it as it may be. Of course, we wish we could do this in Tyrol. If we create the legal requirements for this today, then it is good. There are also apprentices who come from Tyrol to Lower Austria or to the Federal Capital, and of course they should also be able to drive along. We also have the problem with regional taxes in Tyrol, where pupils and mixed transport also takes place. There were some irritations there. Minister, you know that. I've been looking at you more often. And there too clarity could be achieved. It was about that we were allowed to take the farmer down from the mountain for shopping during student transports. That was then a bit bleak. There was also a clarification of the situation. All in all, Mr Minister, thank you very much for your commitment for the entrepreneurs, for their social security. And we are also on the right path with our modern and family-oriented Minister Mitterlehner. Thank you very much. Good evening!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e17701	The next speaker was Mr Riepl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e17722	Ladies and gentlemen! The top youth ticket for Vienna, Lower Austria and Burgenland is a hit. Mr Federal Minister, you could become hot suspect if we could now, together, extend this to the other regions. The term hit has fallen in a conversation with a few Amstetten young people who have said we have all already bought it. This is classic, because we can drive to the Donauinselfest in Vienna, for example. Although we have the Danube in Lower Austria, there is only a Danube island festival in Vienna. Or someone told me: I am an apprentice in Amstetten and I can even go to the boarding school in Neunkirchen. However, how will it be with a Linzian who, for example, will eventually go to a boarding school in Vienna? He gets a little promotion, but not the replacement if he's in a class for ten weeks now and has to go home every week. So there's another problem we might have to deal with together in peace. The problem of boarding school problems is therefore a problem which is not solved with these regional tickets if they are not transregional. I would like to ask you to think together and to see together that we may get it somehow. That is not so many, but at least it would be fair to find a solution for them. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e17750	Next speaker: Mrs Schönpass. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e17771	Mr President. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) On the one hand, this change of law is about simplifying the procedures, but at the same time also about enabling young people, concrete pupils and apprentices, mobility at affordable prices. I am pleased that this sensible and successful model should now be extended to the entire federal territory. From the point of view of the country Upper Austria, there are two problem areas: first of all, additional costs for the country and the municipalities from about € 5 to 7 million. Secondly, So far, the transport companies in Upper Austria have been operating on a private basis and the family ministry has paid only a certain amount of money. If everything goes to the countries, the countries would have to write out publicly according to the EU Directive. This is therefore never and never possible until the beginning of the next school year in autumn. A solution would be to lay down in the law that these contracts may be concluded with the companies currently active. Mr Minister, I would ask you to take this into account and wish you that the negotiations with the countries can be concluded positively. I look forward to the top youth ticket for our students and apprentices. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e17807	As the last speaker on this item on the agenda, Mr Lipitsch is speaking on behalf of the European Parliament. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e17829	Mr President. Federal Minister! As I said, everything on this youth ticket has already been said here. One can only support it, and I am glad that it is going through the stage unanimously, for Vienna, Lower Austria and the Burgenland, the Central Area, a large transport association, are of course not always to be compared with the other federal states. And that's the difficult thing to do. I see this very positively, of course, because young people are taken early on to public transport and learn to use it. This is, of course, an advantage that not only contributes to the safety of young people, but also to their increasing use of public transport in the future. My colleague Riepl has already said something that is, of course, in the room – and this is also my heart, especially as a representative of the apprentices – that there is the possibility in the future for apprentices to go across the country even if they are forced to drive in vocational schools, where they are longer than a day – that is, a week, a month or several weeks – to get cheaper rides in order to be able to afford it. There's no such thing today. The boarding school is getting more and more closed, and the young people have to go home on the weekend. It might also be useful if this would also be possible across countries in the negotiations, especially for the visit of vocational schools. Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e17866	No one is reporting on this. I therefore conclude the debate. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. We come to the vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 1963 of the supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, for a sign. – That too is unanimous. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[19:31:39]] 22. Point Report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on the motion for a resolution by Mr Anneliese Kitzmüller, Member of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e17923	We're now on the 22nd grade. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mrs Kitzmüller has spoken. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e17951	Mr President. Mr. Minister! ==References====External links== January 2012 writes: ‘Angries of money-seeking for addicts’. Further: "Up to 20,000 euros at one stroke and almost 300 euros per month: local amounts that Tyrol's financial authorities currently have to transfer to the found drug disease. “We have some such cases and see how we can stop it,” In addition: “ ‘ We have an average of three applications from addiction clinics every week, ’ says the head of the Drug Ambulance at the Innsbruck Clinic. ” Finally: “A drug consultant warns anyway: “You can imagine what addictions start with 20,000 euros.” – So the ‘Tyrol daily’. We therefore also request that neither this increased family aid nor retroactive disbursement be transferred. In our opinion, these sick, drug addicts should be supported by providing them with therapy, as they can be helped rather than supported with money. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In many other cases, we have been clearly opposed to benefits in kind and to cash benefits. In this case, I must say, we are in favour of benefits in kind in the form of therapies offered to heal the children and young people from their addiction. We know that addictions are sick, and they have to be helped. Only in this way can we support the families by enabling them to receive this treatment. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr Minister, you and some others have said at the committee meeting that these cases are not true that these things are not. I would like to make available to you the article from the “Tyrol daily” by the editor Thomas Hörmann. We talked to him again. He has confirmed that there are these cases and that there has obviously been a disinformation on your part. I hope you will agree to our request and have come to a different opinion. We expect other parties to be able to learn. We see that in this case benefits are more important than cash benefits.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e18022	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e18045	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It is unusual to take the floor immediately after the first speaker. However, I would like to do so because it simply fails to repeat what has already been explained in the Committee. Mrs Kitzmüller, you are presenting me with the article from the "Tyrol daily newspaper". That's not the problem. The problem is that what is claimed has not been verified by concrete examples – neither by the editor nor by you, nor by anyone else. Therefore: The facts claimed here are wrong. Nor can the case lead to this legal procedure, because retroactive recognition and disbursement of family benefits in the case of addiction diseases can usually not occur as described in this application. So: This case is not verified. The disbursement has not been made in this form, so that we, at least as far as the information is concerned, are concerned. That is why I would have expected you to clarify this and not warm up the remaining issue with the same facts that are not facts.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e18080	The next speaker is Mrs Marek. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e18101	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mrs Kitzmüller, in itself, would have made the debate very clear if you had really argued with facts here and would not have read again the article you have already copied into the request, because there are no facts in it, but statements which unfortunately cannot be verified. Ladies and gentlemen! We are talking here about the increased family allowance for significantly disabled children. We are talking here about at least a 50 percent degree of disability. This is about a permanent incapacity for work and that someone before the 21st century. Incapacity for work has come into this incapacity before the 21st century, i.e. before the 21st century. ==References====External links==* Official website This family allowance is granted for years of life. So a lot has already happened. And if this has happened because of drug dependence, it is also to be acknowledged. The Authority cannot, of course, verify why this disability occurred. If this has happened due to drug abuse, drug use – we know that is a psychiatric, a mental disease – then that is also to be accepted. [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. Dr. Grünewald.]] To say then, unfortunately, there is no money, is not to accept. We confess to this, ladies and gentlemen. Obviously this is an individual case, which unfortunately was not very serious or not serious at all. Therefore: This request is wrong, is poorly researched and is to be rejected.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e18145	Next speaker: Mrs Kaufmann-Bruckberger. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e18168	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! At first, drug use is not a moral question, but it is about the personal happiness of the individual, how to read. Only when one is addicted to an extent that one harms another will the behavior become immoral. But if we read Parliament's correspondence on this item on the agenda, it must be noted that the title of this motion for a resolution has basically been criticised. One has not dealt with the real subject at all. This is also such a classic party behaviour in this House. [[Abg. Stutter: Incredible!]] However, I would like to quote Nobel Laureate Milton Friedman, who said in an interview in 1992: “Do we have the right to determine what someone else can do to himself? () that a government should not force people to be lucky, but that they are very well entitled to stop them from harming others. I also believe that we have no right to prescribe to a citizen whether he can drink alcohol and how much. But we have every reason to arrest him and throw him into prison when he's driving drunk car, threatening people. It’s the same with drugs.” Ladies and gentlemen! We've heard it twice today: Drug dependence is a disease. However, there are also numerous diseases which, in the course of drug abuse, simply fall to the public. We also know from reports that drug addicts often go away, that in most cases relatives, themselves, the school, neglect the profession. Another problem also raised is procurement crime. [[Federal Minister Dr. Mitterlehner: Mrs Colleague! Do you know what you're talking about?]] – Yes, I know, but it’s also about drug abuse. [[Federal Minister Dr. Mitterlehner: Ah so!]] [[Abg. Grosz: Minister of State! Team Stronach!]] If the money is not sufficient, you get the money in other ways, through burglaries or other crimes. So the drug consumer becomes a drug dealer very quickly. Youths who experiment with curiosity and underestimate the risk of becoming addictive are particularly vulnerable. Of course, this is also a social problem, because young people who inject heroin because they don't get along with reality because they don't see prospects or have no future prospects are at risk. And not only has politics, but society has also failed, because this problem is simply not considered seriously. [[Abg. Marek: You criticize the fact that nothing has been said in the Committee all the time!]] Today we are here discussing a motion for a resolution which is more or less about the title. If one had dealt more closely with this issue, one could have closed a law gap. Today we could have put a bar on social abuse. [[Abg. Lueger: Incredible!]] But you insist that you rather provide addicts with money instead of treatment places. Who prove to be prior to his 21st century. Year of life – which we have already heard – was in drug ambulance treatment, is entitled to family allowance of approximately €300 per month, and that for life. And if you ask for this amount retroactively, we speak of sums up to €20 000, which must be transferred immediately. In my opinion, these funds should be used for information on drug abuse, because, anyway, the tomorrow’s “Kronen Zeitung” says that every tenth member of the population is already taking drugs. I believe that this issue must finally be addressed. This is a total failure in the fight against social abuse and in particular drug abuse.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e18284	Further word message: Minister of State Dr. Mitterlehner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e18316	Mrs. Colleague! Ladies and gentlemen! Such a thing is incredible; it has never happened to me at all, that someone is talking about a subject that is not on the agenda at all, but that is still referring to it and says that only the headline is wrong, everything else is exactly the right thing. [[Congratulations with ÖVP, SPÖ, Greens and BZÖ]] [[Abg. Grosz: This is what Robert Lugar does serially!]] Mrs Kaufmann-Bruckberger! In this case, it was about social abuse that Mrs. Kitzmüller, on the basis of an article in the "Tyrol daily newspaper", is accused of abusively retroactive family aid being paid to addicts. [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: Other construction site! I don't know!]] I say to you that this is not legally possible on this basis and, secondly, is not a case in this regard. What you did was quite different – but it was also interesting.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e18370	Mrs Mag. Mag. is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Worm. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e18391	Mr President. Federal Minister! The title of Mrs. Kitzmüller's motion for a resolution is causative, polemic and discriminatory – discriminatory against the sick young people who could benefit from increased family support under 21 years of age. And he's actually wrong, too; the Minister of State has already done that. The previous speaker said that it was not a point of view during the discussion in the Family Committee. I didn't notice your speech there, because you didn't say anything about it. We are very likely to have given an opinion on this. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Again for you, in case you do not want to read what was very well read in Parliament’s correspondence: It is not enough if the drug ambulance expresses a confirmation, but it is also necessary to teach a medical confirmation of drug dependence by the Federal Social Office. And that's not so easy. That is also stated in this request, but you did not want to read it out. In my opinion, this is a really humane story, just as you have behaved here today. In the Committee, four parties were unable to follow their sentiments, your party colleague Hofer has more or less relativized, which in this title is blatant that there is “money for addicts”, which does not at all correspond to the facts. And here in plenary, repeat the whole thing again. That's purpose, in criminal law the purpose would be.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e18437	The next speaker is Mrs Windbüchler-Souschill. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e18458	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Dear colleagues, colleague from the Stronach team! Google is your friend – I would advise you now. Enter “Suicide Prevention”, then you know why drug policy and suicide prevention belong together. I don't know who's writing your speeches in the Stronach team, but I'd advise you: Quit this man! That was just wrong what you said now. [[It is in favour of Greens and SPÖ, as well as of representatives of the ÖVP.]] The title of "money for addicts" is indeed purely populist, and that was also part of the debate in the Committee. What, then, does “money for addicts ” mean? – This means, first of all, that if drug addicts, who are sick, were to come to a cash benefit, this money could rain over them and leave the money out like a pot can. That's the gag. This is, as it were, the picture for “moneys for addicts, ” and it is not de facto. On the contrary, what it needs and what it actually does, these are broad offers for drug addicts, for drug addicts. No question. They also need an extension, we all know. Drug policy is a wide field. It takes community, country and federal cooperation, since it is also really necessary to provide support for sick people. It needs therapy, it needs accompaniment, it needs prevention, it needs measures to protect, and it also needs suicide prevention. It needs family groups in the regions themselves, on the spot, because especially the relatives are great sufferers of children who are seeking illness, of relatives. And it takes quite clearly the fight against drug trafficking and also against drug production. Drug policy is a wide field. We should talk about this and not simply make populist headline policy at the expense of drug addicts.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e18498	Next speaker: Mrs Haubner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e18519	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, Unlike the colleague Kaufmann-Bruckberger, we have been in the Family Committee as representatives of the BZÖ because we consider him a very important committee. That is why we have also heard exactly what the request was. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] This is an application which, as has been said several times, referred to a media report. And I say quite honestly: If it were the same as in this report If you were asked, you would of course have to put it right away – no question at all. But I don't think you did well research. They did not present the facts. I assume that what we have discussed in the Committee, what the Federal Minister has also said, and what I know from my own experience, is that family aid is paid only to parents, that the increased family allowance is going to be at least one more than 50 percent disability, and that it must ultimately not be the confirmation of any drug advice agency, but that of the Federal Social Office. These are facts that are absolutely necessary in order to benefit from increased family support at all. Increased family allowances are also available for diseases, and everyone has said today that drug addicts are sick, so this is also legitimate. But I would like to say here for the BZÖ that a misuse of family allowances, no matter what, is strictly opposed for us. When we talk about the drug problem, about addicts and about the fact that the number of drug addicts in the teen age is constantly increasing, which is very worrying and must force us to act, then we must discuss it at a different level, and we should do so too. What measures does policy take not only to help young people get out of this scene, but to prevent them from getting into this vicious circle at first? That would be something that we should once again discuss intensively, which Parliament hardly really deals with, and hardly in any way brings it to the fore. It is – once again – about this request, which is not well researched from our point of view, which in the negative sense, I say, is more than populist, and therefore I say: better to deal with serious solutions, than to do quite a lot of wind with a request and actually not to help anyone.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e18573	No one is reporting on this. I therefore conclude the debate. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. We come to the vote on the request from the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection to take note of his 1964 report. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. [[19:52:16]] 23. Point Report of the Budget Committee on the financial statements for 2011 (III-350 d.a.) and on the Financial statements for the year 2011 (Proposal for a comparison of estimates as at 31. (March 2012) (III-319 d.a.) (1976 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e18623	We're now going to the 23rd grade. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). 4 minutes of speaking time are adjusted as desired. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e18652	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It is not about the 2013 budget, as President Graf has already mentioned, but about the Court of Auditors' report on the financial statements for 2011. No reason to rejoice, ladies and gentlemen! I admit that the result is better than planned, but after all, a deficit of €4.3 billion still appears in the accounts, despite €4 billion more tax revenue. It can be noted positively that the primary balance has again become positive, but the debt level has increased to € 217 billion and thus to 72.15 percent of GDP. What makes us a little worried is not only the debt, but also the liabilities of the covenant. We are second in the euro area in terms of the amount of GDP liability. We are liable with 38 percent for various things. In front of us is only Ireland, which, of course, has enormous problems with the bank's liability. But I would like to mention that, for example, Holland spends only 9 percent of GDP on liabilities. So I think that should be looked at once, because it must not be that the risk of development cooperation to taxpayers, for example, should be shared. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The tax rate is 41.9%. We know that we have to get under 40 percent in order to reach the EU section. It has also been noted that expenditure for students amounts to 6.6 billion – despite the decline in the number of students. Back to the debt level of 217 billion €! The question is: How can this debt be dismantled? To this end, I would like to quote from the Court of Auditors' report: ‘In order to reduce debt, the RH considers structural consolidation measures to be essential, involving all local authorities, in particular in the fields of education, health and social matters.’ For "indispensable", ladies and gentlemen! Why isn't that happening? – I read from the Court of Auditors’ report that it does not happen. – Who or what really prevents the Federal Government of SPÖ and ÖVP from cutting into this black-red or red-black administrative bacon? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Krainer]] Who is it? Is it the heads of state who are still trying to distribute funding money with the pot? I recall that there are 50,000 different funding measures in Austria, including those in Upper Austria. Who will stop this destruction? 5.6 percent of GDP, 18 billion € annually are spent on subsidies and subsidies. – This is just an example. This could continue in the field of health, structure, administration and so on. There are 599 proposals from the Court of Auditors, and Mrs Fekter claimed in the last Budget Committee that 75 percent of them would already be done. A question to you, Mr President of the Court of Auditors: Is that really true? - I don't think so. Let's see how other states do it! For example, in 1992, Sweden had a huge, very bad economic crisis, high corporate and household debt, the government deficit was 11.4 percent, and the government debt ratio rose from 45 percent to 85 percent. In 1995, the Sweden dragged the row around and said: We are rehabilitating our state by: We lower the tax rate, permanently lower it! – The Sweden today is in debt of 33 percent of GDP. We, ladies and gentlemen, have reached almost 90 percent if you count everything. The Swedish have, I would just like to remind you, 290 municipalities and a legislator. I do not need to explain to you how many communities there are in Austria, namely 2 500, and we also have legislators about a few too much, I believe. Why can't we go to Austria to finally take sustainable rehabilitation measures to avoid the inability of the state to pay? [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] For me, ladies and gentlemen, there are two systems of state structure that could be used as an example: first, the Swiss model, second, the Swedish model – and between them a “or”. But Austria is still doing both things, and that is not going on. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e18734	Next speaker: Mr Steindl. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e18756	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen in the House! The federal accounts submitted by the Court of Auditors for 2011 are one of the essential foundations for Parliament's control function. We see that in 2011 we had a very good economy and the economic conditions were finally positive. GDP increased netly by 2.7 percent in 2011. As a result, an employment increase of 1.9 percent and the unemployment rate fell from 6.7 percent to 4.2%. We actually have one of the best values in Europe, and that is, I believe, due to the fact that a very solid policy is also being made in Austria. This, of course, also has a positive impact on the budget. The revenue could be increased by €4 billion to €63.452 billion. Expenditure has not increased to the extent that they were budgeted, but only by €527 million to €67,814 billion, and the deficit was significantly lower than it was forecast. We met the Maastricht deficit criteria again in 2011 with about a 2.6% quota for the first time. However, it is true that the debt ratio of God has unfortunately increased to 72.15 percent, which is significantly higher than the Maastricht criteria of 60 percent, but this is mainly due to the fact that we had to make funds available for financial market stability in Austria, which is also a significant part of the economy. I've been looking at where expenditure has increased. They are increased by 4.4 percent in the field of education/teaching. My predecessor explained that since 2007 we have had a total cost increase of around 14 percent in the schools in development – I have looked at it – but since 2000, we have had around 5.3 percent fewer students. Here, I think, one has to try to get the costs back in some way. Health is also an essential area where costs are increasing over and over again; 4.8 percent in 2011. Again and again, the ÖBB is a significant item: over 4 billion, almost 5 billion € as a cost burden, an increase of 11.8 percent. Overall, support measures have fallen dramatically in industry and industry, 46.7 percent, and agriculture has also had to take a strong minus with about 8.3 percent. In general, it is true that we have a very high social rate in the international comparison; it is over 30 percent. Since the OECD has an average social rate of 22 per cent, we would have considerable scope for saving expenditure accordingly from the cost side. This would probably also help us significantly in the tax rate. Positively – in conclusion – it is to be mentioned that, as said, the primary balance at €832 million was the first time in the positive. From my point of view, I would like to highlight the discipline of the budgetary management of the individual members of the government. We now have more than €15 billion of deposits in the individual resorts. It was really very prudent and cautious. There will certainly also be worse economic times, and then these reserves are of great advantage. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e18817	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Widmann. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e18838	Mr President. High house! Thank you, Mr President of the Court of Auditors, for the work you always deliver for Parliament, so that it can be checked whether the political will has also been implemented, whether Parliament also takes a form of design and whether this government creates scope for the future. If you look at the 2011 financial statements, you find that is not the case. I'll explain that. There are, of course, some of the figures there and there are light views, if you want to, it was no wonder that in the Committee on Budgets ÖVP and SPÖ almost a jubilation fireworks have shot down on the execution of the budget; only black and red confetti and the congratulations candle have been missing. But in truth, it's not as pink as you represent it. The budget deficit has been lower than expected, with 2.38 percent instead of the estimated 3.1 percent that would have been possible, federal government, countries and municipalities have exhausted only 0.34 percent of 0.75%, there was even a slight surplus of social security. – These are the facts, but these goals have also been set, and they have also been revised. In fact, the good result of the government has fallen into the lap, not because it was so diligent and prudent in the reforms, but because the economy was so good. You have to say that, because it is. That the primary balance is positive, that is correct and should be so, but one thing is clear as well: Deficit remains short-term, and new debt remains new debt! And a sustainable government policy must work to reduce precisely what is being done, to reduce deficits and debt in order to shape the future. But you don't do that! [[BZÖ and Abg. Grainy.]] Therefore, the total debt burden has also increased from € 205 to € 217 billion, and – I add – there are also liabilities. The Federal Government's liabilities are currently estimated at 120 billion, and countries and communities have 50 billion again. That's a total of 170 billion you actually have to count on. What that means when this sum becomes beating, you can calculate. The Court of Auditors has defined a concept which has been internationally recognised and criticised by SPÖ: The problem here is the so-called past expenditure. These are, according to definition, pensions and interest rates across the EU. Pensions are important, are correct, but the problem is that in 2011 we spent 35.3 percent on pensions and interest rates. The direction in which this government is driving is the wrong one, because according to the Court of Auditors, past expenditure is already expected to be almost 38 percent in 2016. That's what I'm asking myself: What's left of the design room? If you expect the tax rate to rise almost every year, to add an unemployment rate that also increases, I wonder – there are politicians who want to pay for performance; Mr Leitl von der ÖVP proposed this – in retrospect: Where is your performance when past expenditure increases when interest increases as debt increases, the deficits increase? In fact, it would be necessary to set a minimum of 1.8 percent for the federal politicians and not, just as SPÖ and ÖVP and Greens want, a plus of 1.8 to 2.8 percent. That would be the right way, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Pension expenditure is already 17.1 billion €, and as a second big item we have interest rates of 9.8 billion €. If you charge the Federal Finance Agency, the €3 billion that comes from, you will still be €6.8 billion. The problem is that the money is increasingly tied up in the past in Austria and none remains for the future, for example for science, research and education. This is also repeated by the Court of Auditors, which also endorses structural measures, such as the 599 proposals for reform, which have hardly been addressed to this day. That is to say, in retrospect, the Court of Auditors clearly confirms the correct procedure for the BZÖ to reject the 2011 budget, because you are not prepared to shape the future, but remain in the past.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e18912	Next speaker: Mr Krainer. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e18933	Mr President. High house! A few days ago, a renowned U.S. magazine called Austria more or less an island of the Blessed and a model case for how well one can control through this crisis. I also believe that the figures, the objective figures of economic growth, unemployment, deficit development and so on, give Austria the right to: Yes, the Federal Government has had a large part in the crisis that Austria has come as well as we have come through the crisis so far. The 2011 federal accounts also confirm that this was and is the right way. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Dr. Bartenstein.]] Despite the worst economic crisis since human beings, only two years have been a primary deficit and a primary surplus already in the third year, the lowest unemployment in the European Union, the twelfth consecutively a better economic growth than our neighbouring countries and the other states in the European Union – which shows that there has been very good work here, and the Federal Government and the work of this Federal Government is an objective witness – not that al-les has been done well, but that at least much has been done right and good at that time. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] On the discussions that have now taken place on the subject of education: This is, of course, one of the areas in which we are not at the forefront, and that more resources are being provided, that more political energy is put into the question of how to improve our education system, and that we also spend more money to improve the quality of the education system, I cannot regard it as a criticism, but I see it as correct. Then: Compared with other countries, the education system in Austria is not yet among the best in the world or among the best in the EU. There is still much to do to make it even better and even more fit, because the training of our children should also be worth more money for us. In any case, this is worth more money and better structures in the education system. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Discussion on past expenditure: Please, let's stop saying blindly, everything we pay on interest has something to do with the past! That is also objectively wrong. If we build a bridge today and finance it by credit, then today cars drive over it, i.e. in the opposite direction, and also in the next 20, 30 years. Why is this past, please? Because it was built in the past? Yes, but it will be used in the present and in the future. Unfortunately, this blind and acid division is not particularly intelligent in the past and the future. She is particularly unintelligent when she claims that pensions would be something of a past nature. Please, to say to the pensioners who today receive a pension, that this money that is spent on your pensions is all for the past, is not fair and is not fair to the pensioners. No, pensioners also have a present and a future! [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Widmann: This is class fight!]] This money is for them the present and also their future, namely the security of their livelihood today and also in the coming years. To that end, we reject this qualification as a past issue from Social Democracy, today and tomorrow too! [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. May. Aubauer.]] But I would also like to mention one point in plenary, namely the way in which we deal with the federal accounts. In the past, the billing corresponded relatively precisely to the budget, because if you told a ministry you were allowed to spend so much money on this area, then so much money was spent. There is more flexibility through the new budgetary law. This is good and right, but it also leads to the fact that the federal accounts are no longer identical with the Federal estimates. I believe – and we have made up among the political representatives of the parties that we are looking at this budget round, how we can improve the budget process – that we should next time treat the accounts in parallel to the budget. It is becoming increasingly important that we also go into depth and detail and not only look at what the plan was, but also: What was the end result of the financial year? . We will discuss this, and I would like, at least, to make a plea that we are improving it. Finally, I would like to thank the Court of Auditors for their work, for the comprehensive preparation of the accounts and for the figures. This is a lot of work and also an important basis and will become even more important for the reasons mentioned earlier in the future. I see the billing as a good witness to the work of this Federal Government, and I can only say: Keep going! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e19012	Next speaker: Mrs Kaufmann-Bruckberger. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e19033	Mr President. Mr President, Mr Moser! High house! First of all, I or we would like to thank you very much for the documents that are very detailed and excellently prepared. A lot of details can be found from this. At the end of 2011, the total amount of forward-looking debt of the federal government amounted to around €221 billion and is therefore 9.1 percent above the comparison value of 2010; that is, we have €18.5 billion more in debt. Although we are now saying that the general economic deficit of 2.6 percent is Maastricht-compliant, it must be noted that in the public debt level, the reference value of 60 percent has been significantly exceeded by 72.15 percent. You can read more, it was much better managed than was planned. Then you just have to ask: What does that mean? Have you consciously raised the numbers to present a success? – I guess that would have to do more with a mogel pack. The Court of Auditors also writes quite clearly: The commitments to be made in future financial years amount to around € 156 billion. – This means an increase in commitments to the previous year of 47.4 percent, ladies and gentlemen! I have already repeated the figures in my reply to Mrs Fekter's budget speech, but I would very much like to repeat them once again: The debt level is currently well over 230 billion. According to Eurostat, there are still 30 billions of liabilities for the ÖBB and for the ASFINAG, the federal real estate company and other distributed companies, 11 billions for market-based companies of the municipality of Vienna, liabilities of the countries for various national hypos, guarantees in the double-digit area within the framework of the bank rescue package, 27 billions of liabilities for Bad Banks – we all know the names –, 41 billion liabilities for the ESM and for the EFSF. So this makes a total debt of more than 340 billion. [[Abg. Dr. Bartenstein: But you can't mix liabilities and debts!]] Of course, you can count this together calmly, with real government debt here already over 100 percent. Who's sitting on this debt mountain? – These are the future generations. It is the Austrian taxpayer. We can only hope that there will be no recession, as the IMF has assumed, that interest rates will remain low in the future and will not rise. In the whole situation, however, the fact that nothing can be seen from the reorganisation of the government budget is frightening that no positive incentives in the future will certainly be created in this direction. There are no major reforms, no consolidation of state finances, no administrative, health, pension reform. That is to say, this government is not acting, this government is still. I would now like to go over to my last word to correct something: The Federal Social Office of Vienna confirms that, even in Vienna, addiction clinics can apply for increased family aid, because in principle the laws are the same everywhere. And the law provides that the family allowance will be increased until those affected are no longer inability to work, so perhaps for a lifetime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e19083	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Kogler. 6 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e19104	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! For one thing, you can't do anything, but we're a legislator here. [[Abg. Hagen goes to the government bank and talks with President of the Court of Auditors Dr. Moser.]] After the various budgetary reforms have already achieved so much good, it would also be reasonable and useful for the House if the Federal Accounting Board, which you are familiar with, were to create again and again – which would probably still be possible for you if you were not to be interrupted by a gifted sectist – if the federal accounts were to play a role in the overall structure of the new Federal Budgetary Law – the chairman of the Budgetary Committee nods ahead of time, because he already knows what is going to happen because of my long announcement – that we decide that the federal accounts are already available here in the period April/May. [[Rejoicing]] We would then be able to deal with it in such a timely manner that it can be more involved in the budget consultation for the next budget. But, as I said, this is a matter of the legislator. We have little to say about that. If someone has something against it, he should say it on occasion. Otherwise, we can do the work and put in a joint initiative proposal, for example in the Committee on Budgets. This might be another way to strengthen a more self-confident National Council in budgetary matters, in addition to the budget service – I think it is a good thing that develops and develops its impact just now – without forgetting the role of the Court of Auditors in all these issues. So, what questions? – The year 2011 is not exactly a particularly dramatic one, but the President will present the interpretations from his point of view. I would just like to highlight two aspects, namely the interest rate problem, but quite different from the one described above, and the banking problem – surprisingly, gell? We write October 2011. I read in the newspapers that Mr Bundeskanzler and others who prepare breakfast for the Council of Ministers now have a very different agenda: They are constantly looking at the spread, because now Austria could also be in the sight of the speculators. As a result, something like a debt brake has been discussed at Union level, and in even faster succession, this pult has been raised from the threatening index fingers, against the opposition parties, in particular to the Greens, because you know that we are fully-needed in a negotiated manner, which you rightly do not always accept from the others. You have just turned this threatening pointing finger on us: If we do not enter into the Constitution a strict debt limit, then we, the Republic of Austria, will be in the sight of the speculators, then interest will explode! And so on and so on. And we, the Greens, are to blame if the whole thing costs a few billion more. So a simple economic analysis would have already resulted, credit rating agencies back or forth – and that is in principle the calming thing – that this is in the long run Not at all goes in a solid economy, which Austria is still grateful to God. I would ask you to take note of the praise. Who's on the government bank right now? Nobody. So we said that this would not work – and we were right to keep it. This does not mean, of course, that we should not organize our public expenditure as efficiently as possible and also finance it to reduce the debt level, because that is always happening. It is always good to spend the money for the better and not for the worse, logical. But this thing to write a imaginative debt brake into the Constitution, which binds one in almost every direction of heaven and enshrines political decision-making spaces, that was not to do with us. But then what happened? – Interests continue to decline, for a completely different and logical reason. If the fundamental data of economy are half-fitting as in Austria, then that is the important thing. More important is a genuine willingness to reform. What is more important is a solid economic and social system that is viable. Even the speculators and investors know that. And that's exactly how it came. There is still so much investment, including in Europe, because the euro area is really a strong economic area, and the money has to go somewhere. So it goes to Germany, Holland, Austria and Finland. That is why we have low interest rates. And the whole housemaster economy of the majority here in the house, you can look at it today! So take your pointing fingers in the future, if you don't understand very much about this! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] That's why we're not going to let schoolmasters in the future. It will be exactly the history of looking at the major reforms in expenditure. It is certainly the most important of the careful handling of the tax money, not a question, but it is also necessary to consider and act on the national economic contexts. I am essentially saving you the statements on the banks, and we will have a lot of opportunity to do so, in particular, Mr President, in a Committee on the Court of Auditors. I'm just saying it wasn't that bad in 2011 because it was moved to the year 2012 and to the year 2013. Maybe you can comment on this. We're only about to hurry up. Our bill says 6 billion are already perdu, net! There's what's come from the good guys already subtracted. The only problem banks identified by at least three. So it's time for us to go through this in detail here in the house. Thanks to your work, two reports are already available. We intend to deal in detail with the ministers responsible, with appropriate witnesses, in the Court of Auditors in the case, because it cannot be that we are setting up a FIMBAG responsible for the control of the billions in the banks, and we must read in the Court of Auditors' report that they do not at all, or if only fail, control. It was a unanimous decision in the House to control the requirements of the bank package and we will come back to it. There will be a great deal of discussion here and insist that we will not let this happen to you if you want to do the investigations again!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e19186	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Gartlehner. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e19210	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors. Ladies and gentlemen! I think that essentially one can sum up, it has again succeeded in producing a positive primary balance. Many have thought that this will not be possible. And this is a very decisive step towards consolidation, which is indeed sought. We also know that automatic stabilizers, both national and international, are reflected in this federal accounts and therefore the result is not even better and no more positive than it is in its positive deviations. I would like to thank the staff in the Ministries for this very intelligent budgetary policy in their departments, but also the Court of Auditors for their evaluation and control, for this report. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e19244	The President of the Court of Auditors, Dr Moser, spoke. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e19266	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! High house! I would like to start by thanking myself very much for having been intensively discussed in the last Committee on Budgets, but also today in the context of the debate. I would also like to thank Mr Krainer, who has announced that in the future, the financial consultations of the Federal Accounts should have a stronger meaning. That is also correct and necessary. The Court of Auditors has further developed the accounts in recent years, with a view to the developments in the budgetary reform. For example, this federal accounts report provides you with information on the annual budget implementation, shows serious deviations from the estimate, also reflects the general government budget development. In addition, he also informs you for your discussions on the financial management of the federal government, the public debt, and in particular on significant developments in the federal budget. This federal billing also includes – as Mr Kogler has already mentioned – statements on the bank package. As announced, the Court of Auditors has examined the bank package, and I can point out that the question has been raised – that in 2012 there is a negative balance between revenue and expenditure from the bank package of around €2.3 billion. In addition, this federal accounts report also shows Austria's budgetary commitments within the framework of the European stabilisation instruments and also addresses medium-term planning. If you look at the 2011 federal accounts – this has also come out in the context of the debate – you can see a very differentiated picture. On the one hand, a positive primary balance of €832 million has been achieved for the first time since 2008 – also addressed by the honourable Member Krainer. The unemployment rate was 0.2 percent below the previous year's figure. Both the federal deficit and the general government deficit have declined. GDP, both nominal and real GDP, has grown more strongly than in the Federal estimates and has also been somewhat better than in the euro area or OECD. However, this positive trend is also due to the good economy, higher tax revenue and lower expenditure, also due to the remission of the labour market. On the other hand, from the Court's point of view, it should also be noted that the federal government's net financial debt increased by around €7 billion from 2010 to €193.6 billion in 2011 and the general government debt increased by more than 11 billion to €217.8 billion. The burden on the future financial years alone is more than €156 billion. The Federal Accounting Office therefore clearly demonstrates that there is a need for action to address structural reforms in order to actually achieve the legal requirements and the self-adopted budget targets. The sustainability of public finances has certainly not yet been sufficiently achieved, which shows, among other things, the figures and facts of the Federal Finance Act 2013, which will be discussed tomorrow in the context of the debate. On the one hand, it shows that the economic situation will deteriorate again in the next few years and will result in consequences for the budget, in addition, public debt will continue to be over 60 percent in the coming years and will rise from 72.4 percent in 2011 to 75.4 percent in 2013 as a result, than even in the preparation of the Federal Financial Framework Act 2013 to 2016. It is therefore clear that we need measures, both from the federal government and from the countries and from the municipalities, to achieve the objective of a balanced budget. The rules of the countries and municipalities as regards accounting – which has shown an audit by the Court of Auditors in connection with consolidation measures – are currently inadequate. As far as possible, it is not currently ensured that the wealth and income situation is true as possible. The assets and debt are recorded differently, the annual results are not determined in a uniform and comparable manner, the future obligations, so-called non-debt administrative debt and special financing, leasing financing are determined and presented differently. Rules are missing for the activation and valuation of assets, for essential terms such as non-debt administrative debt, financial debt, reserves are missing a clear definition. In order to be able to react effectively at local level in the future, we therefore need harmonisation of the accounting system and also medium-term planning, which are coherent or complementary. This need arises from Article 13(1). 2 of the Federal Constitution. However, this need is also reflected in the directives and regulations that have recently been adopted within the framework of the European Union, because, in other words, since 2008, a gradual process of relocation is also visible in budgetary responsibility at EU level. This also takes place in the context of the reorganisation of economic, fiscal and financial policy architecture, which takes place in the course of the economic and financial crisis since 2008 – for example, in the course of the management and monitoring measures of the Sixpack legislative package or in the two-pack proposals of the European Commission. In this way, competences, i.e. a set of tasks, which have so far been under the exclusive responsibility of the Member States – e.g. the establishment of national budgets, balanced budgets, a statutory debt ratio – would be transferred to the EU level or increased in the EU level. Gen. In this context, it is therefore obvious that this involves increased control and sanctioning measures at EU level towards Member States, and this presents the national parliaments and the Court of Auditors with fundamental new challenges in this case. However, the lack of sustainability of our implementation is also evident in comparison with revenue and public expenditure from 2007 to 2011, where the debt after Maastricht of the countries – without Vienna – increased by 87 percent, the municipalities – including Vienna – by 72 percent, compared with the federal government – from a far higher level by 27 percent. It is noted that the financial performance of the municipalities has decreased, investment per capita has declined, debt per capita has increased despite increased breakdown, cost drivers have been in particular social, health and personnel, and also that there is no expected reduction in financial debt in the near future. The 2011 Federal Accounts and the underlying figures therefore show that we urgently need structural reforms at all levels of local government in order to achieve the constitutionally defined macroeconomic balance, sustainable budgets and at the same time sustainable budget consolidation. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e19348	No one is reporting on this. I therefore conclude the debate. We shall come to the vote on the draft law, the title and the receipt in 1976 of the supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, for a sign. – That too is the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[20:34:45]] 24. Point Report of the Budget Committee on the Government Template (1960, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Act, which lays down the EU Law on State aid and the Income Tax Act 1988, the German Federal Tax Act 1988, the German Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Protection of the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the the Law on the the the the Law on the the the the the the the the the Law on the Law on the Law on the the the the the Law on the the the the the the the the the the the the the Law on the the the the the the the the the the Law on the the the the the the the Law on the Law on the the the the the the the the Law on the the the the the the the the Law on the the the the the the the the the the the the the Law on the the the the the the the the the the the the Law on the the the Law on the the the the Law on the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e19402	We're getting to the 24th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mr Podgorschek has spoken on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e19430	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! In my view, the budget accompanying laws have quite positive approaches and even partly correspond to our intentions regarding simplification of the tax system. But where there is light, there is, of course, shadows there, and just in the evening of a government the shadows are getting bigger and bigger. For example, the Flight Tax Act provides for a reduction of € 1 to € 5 for the short and medium distance. The question, of course, is why this is not also done in the long distance or why you have ever introduced this tax. It only leads to a distortion of competition, and it may even be questionable whether this tax on luggage does not cost more than it brings. [[Unrest at the ÖVP.]] – Should I perhaps interrupt my statements if the government coalition wants to negotiate, or may I continue to speak? [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Call:Yes, please! Continue Red]] [[Abg. Grosz: (in the direction of ÖVP) it says: Sit calmly, sharpen ears!]] For example, the Tobacco Tax Act, if cigarette prices become too high, is of course already afraid that this is massively promoting the smuggling, and if you're on the move today, you'll see more and more cigarette packs with foreign inscriptions. These can, of course, also be imported goods, which is completely legal, but sometimes there is also smuggling. If the European Union at all thinks that it is introducing a European single package, the so-called Plain Packaging, then, I believe, we are not driving the smokers to stop smoking, but rather to the illegality, which means that at the end of the day only the black market blossoms and the state is missing massive tax revenue. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mrs. Federal Minister Fekter promised or said several days ago that she was for tax simplification, and she rightly stated that the entry tax rate should be reduced from 36.5 percent to 25 percent. I can only give her that right. The maximum tax rate of €60 000 would also be increased to €100 000; if I compare this with the Federal Republic of Germany, it would be €250 000 at all. From my point of view and from the point of view of the liberals, this would be an absolutely right way, but unfortunately, Mrs. Fekter, the Federal Minister of Foreign Affairs, has been rebuffed – by her own party in the person of the Vice Chancellor who prevented the last end. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Grains]] That would have been a way we – if he had been further challenged – would have liked to go as an opposition with Mrs. Fekter.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e19517	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Stummvoll. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e19538	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Taxation Amendment Act – like every year, of course, a wealth of changes that have accumulated in the area of taxation over the past few months. We are doing so in part as a speaker, I would just like to comment on one point. There is also a change to the gambling law, with which, among other things, for those gambling companies where the concession has not yet been granted, an extension of the deadline is made – according to the motto: If the concession expires at the end of the year and the new one has not yet been granted, the whole will be extended by twelve months. This applies generally, but not to a concession, namely, the one that concerns poker. One has to say honestly: If that doesn't happen – and that was in the coalition, I say quite openly, not a majority – this will result in about ten businesses with over 1,000 employees having to quit the staff just before Christmas. We do not assume any responsibility from the ÖVP if about 1,000 people are on the street two weeks before Christmas. I must say this so clearly, ladies and gentlemen, because today is the last opportunity to change that. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz.]] If this occurs, you have to ask honestly: Who's responsible? – Those who were not willing to change that. And I think that – and I say so – it is an blatant preference of the full casinos, with which the deadline will be extended, and at the poker concession it will not be extended. Honestly, I can only say that – I will nevertheless agree to the tax-change law; I cannot reject the whole law just because of this one point – here lies the political responsibility, I have to maintain it clearly, with you, dear friends of the SPÖ club. I have been negotiating with Mr Krainer all day today, including Matznetter; Matznetter has a lot of understanding. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: Krainer is trying all the time, Mr. Colleague!]] – Perhaps it’s still coming; I can only start from the current state of affairs, Mr. Cot. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] In the present state it is not included, and therefore I say: We take no responsibility. It's the last chance today. It's an blatant disparity treatment. It will probably come to arrests and so on, but that's not what I'm talking about. I am concerned that just before Christmas more than 1,000 people will be on the street. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Fichtenbauer.]] If you don't want to answer this, you have to act now. I say quite openly: It's the last chance today. I am also concerned with the policy of order. I've already said to the gambling law at the time: You can ban all the gambling you want in the SPÖ; The result will be, the whole thing will go underground. Is that what we want? I prefer to say that we have full transparency under state control, the companies are registered, the financial police are controlling them; this is ten times better for me than to drive businesses into illegality. I would ask you, perhaps, to reconsider this to the last speaker.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e19616	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Rossmann. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e19638	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Taxation Change Act 2012: If one goes according to the strength of the paper, one could – if the dispute is over, Mr President, then perhaps I can continue with my speech. [[Unrest in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e19659	Mr Rossmann is on the floor; I would like to follow him closely – he also has the microphone. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e19679	Thank you, Mr President! – If you have something to say about the tax-change law, then say it down here, and if you have a broken call, to what I will say, then do it; I accept it with pleasure. [[Prolonged calls.]] [[Congratulation with the Greens]] According to the tax-change law, one could believe that one would have a big throw in front of him, but nothing like that is the case. While a number of laws are being amended, there are quite a few that can be assessed positively from our point of view, on the other hand, but also things, especially in the ecological field, which we also see negative. [[Call the ÖVP:College Krainer!]] What are the positive things? Let's start with agriculture. We have been waiting for a new set of unit values for many years, at least since 2010. With 1. January 2014 is supposed to come to such a one. However, it is to be criticised that the procedure that is taking place here is one that is actually very opaque. At the same time as the re-estimation of the unit values, a reduction in the tax rate in the field of agriculture, which was raised by Minister of Finance Pröll in a night and fog action from €65 000 to €100 000. This is now reduced to €75 000; not to €65 000 but at least to €75 000. I would also like to highlight positively the closure of a tax gap in the area of basic acquisition tax. In the case of donations of agricultural land separated from the land, the basis for the calculation of the unit value has so far been the level of the value of the land. That is to say, we are approaching the value of traffic, and this is a positive step that can be seen as a step towards a stronger taxation of assets – but not yet to an extent we imagine. Law on State aid: This law easings banking secrecy for EU foreigners and is positive in itself because cross-border tax fraud can now be combated much more efficiently than it has been before. In other words, it will be possible to obtain account information if fraud suspects exist, the taxpayers will be able to determine abroad, and the penalties will be intensified. But I do not understand why § 7 does not cover all types of income. The Minister for Finance has explained to the Committee why this is not the case – the income from self-employed work, income from business and the like – because she has explained that she is doing only what the directive requires, and not anymore – but that is unfortunately too little. [[Call to the ÖVP:College Rossmann,!]] – No, no, we want to go far beyond that. We also want to go far beyond that in connection with the interest rate directive, Mr Ikrath, you know that very well. You know very well that this automatic information exchange is still missing. Austria and Luxembourg are very bright examples of how it cannot be done, and I am looking forward to the day when the European Union's Minister of Finance will force it to join this European and international information exchange. [[Call the ÖVP: Then you'll be glad!]] I know that's a red cloth for you, but it's about to come, because the banking secret will fall in Austria too. Believe me, Mr. Ikrath! [[Abg. Wöginger: Don't even praise your people!]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Call the Greens: Art Pause!]] Negative points: the ticket charge – in the ecological area. Why is it actually lowered, both for short distances and for middle sticks? I can only see this as a kneefall in front of the AUA, which has celebrated this as a first step in the right direction, which of course has to follow. If you look at how this government's attitude is vis-à-vis the greening of the tax system, you can say: With the ticket tax one step was taken back, with the NoVA and the lower insurance for hybrid cars one step was taken in the other direction, but under the rule one may not be able to speak of an ecologisation of the tax system, as in general not of a structural reform. What is missing is indeed what the Minister of Finance has announced, namely a reduction in the rate of border duty, the rate of entrance tax, which she has immediately adopted, because she has been rebuffed by her party leader. If you do that, you have to do it in such a way that you can also finance it; do not announce any models that lead to a tax loss of €9 or €10 billion, but you actually have to name the tax gaps that you want to close, i.e. return to realistic tax rates that you can also finance. One of these key financing and closing of tax gaps concerns a stronger taxation of the assets – and this tax-change law will naturally look for them in vain. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e19778	The next speaker was Mr Mag. Gaßner to speak. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e19800	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Now the hustle and bustle between the government groups has been restored. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: What hustle and bustle? Why? What was going on? Tell me!]] – There have now been some people running back and forth, and they have now together decided to do it the way it now comes. [[Cheerfulness to representatives of FPÖ and Greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grosz.]] [[Call at the FPÖ:The thick end comes!]] I should therefore like to refer briefly to the assessment law and the re-evaluation of agricultural unit values. For me, this was a very interesting experience. This is a very complex matter and quite a very, very difficult matter. The negotiations took place, they were long, they were violent, but they were crowned of success. They were therefore crowned of success because they have found a compromise to which everyone has contributed, and I would like to say this in recognition. Negotiations with my colleague Auer were quite fierce and hard, but they have led to a very reasonable result. What has not been accomplished over many years, namely to re-adjust the unit value, has been successful in a few months. I would also like to thank you for this. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] I just want to say one thing, my dear colleague Auer: Perhaps you can take a little influence on your colleagues in the Federal Farmers' Federation in Upper Austria, because they write in an issue: The Farmers' Federation has successfully resisted the attacks of the SPÖ on farm property. – So, on this basis, we have never actually negotiated. And if we had done that, we wouldn't have gotten this result. Maybe you can tell them: You should find out exactly how this happened. The top goal was to keep the smaller units, the smaller and medium-sized enterprises out of a higher burden, so that they can also stay where we want them, namely in the rural area, and that they can also operate their economies there. This was always supported by us – we were concerned with small and medium-sized enterprises – and we succeeded in achieving this goal. I also believe that it has become a good result because I hear that both Mr Auer's clientele and my clientele are partly dissatisfied. If both are dissatisfied, the solution must not be a bad one. [[Abg. Singer:, that you are making client policy!]] – It is a different clientele, Mr colleague. One thing, however, to the conclusion: I do not understand why farmers are still opposed to making accounts, i.e. revenue-expenditure accounts. Today I have heard a few more times: the “Entrepreneurs” in the farm, I hear all the time: “Business plans” shall mean the farmers, the farms. – Yes, ladies and gentlemen, I need an accounting, because it provides me with data to draw up such plans and make business decisions! And the farmers do the same, they also make their records. If the situation would be so unfavorable for them, I don't know why you would refuse at all, because: If I don't have a profit if my accounting doesn't show any profit, I don't have to pay a tax either. – And if I have a profit that my accounting shows, then I have to pay my tax, just like every Austrian and every Austrian.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e19878	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Widmann. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e19899	Mr President. High house! Now I know again how politics is being done in Austria – Mr Gaßner has now made it clear –: It's about client politics, the red half of the empire and the black half of the empire, and then it's about the bundles, then it's about the country leaders, it's about the politicians. And when are you talking about the people in this country? This is the decisive thing, ladies and gentlemen, that you have to start making tax policy just according to fair standards. Whoever is wise, who is diligent, who works a lot, shall also have much in this land. But we haven't done this for a long time. But now back to the subject, to the tax-change law 2012. If I see here how ÖVP and SPÖ get into their hair in such small reforms, then Mrs Fekter's announcement is to make a big tax reform, probably to write into the fairy tale book, but has nothing more to do with facts. I'm sure you won't be able to do this in the mood you've got here. Of course, the law itself offers a number of minor improvements – I do not think it is worth mentioning – when it comes to measures against tax evasion When it comes to gambling law, it is also a matter of making good use of new technical possibilities when it comes to assistance between EU Member States and to contributing to this. – There is also a small number of deteriorations, which are bureaucratic nature that one would not have to do. But there is, above all, a great deterioration, ladies and gentlemen, and that must be said. In recent weeks, I have been approached by a number of people who have said what is happening there is really anti-performance – especially against the middle class. It is a question of massively restricting the preferential taxation for activities by Austrians abroad. It's complicated, it's bureaucratic. There are also comments on the law that you can read: They're all negative, through the bank. No one understands this anymore: If an Austrian is abroad for several weeks, months or years to work properly and wisely there, is separated from the family, takes on burdens, then he is now being punished even more, although he has to make his contributions to social security over-proportionally. I do not understand that the ÖVP is also involved here, but it is apparently on the side of the ÖVP the new view of the middle class that one punishes the volunteers. At the SPÖ you were already used to it anyway. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, this is not the tax reform we are introducing from the BZÖ. One last point I have to raise: It would have been easy for this law to end, for example, the rental contract fees, or to take an approach to them. Do you know that if you have a normal rental contract, you have to pay about 1 per cent of 36 month rents on contributions without getting a single return from the state? 200 € to 300 € per rental contract are easy in there. Where's the counterperformance? Where is the performance of the government, Mrs. Finanzminister? – It is not recognizable. And the whole thing comes from the K.u.k. time. This is because the official then completed and prescribed and signed the rental contract. It's from there! These are the laws which They could change because this concerns many people in this country, especially young people, who are looking for housing. And in the year, colleague Matznetter, that, roughly estimated, 200 to 250 million €, you're making sense of these people who are looking for an apartment. That must be done!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e19954	The next speaker was Mr Auer. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e19976	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, as Mr Gaßner has stated, the negotiations on the tax-change law – that part that was assigned to us both so to speak – were marked by a very objective, very constructive, very different, but very open and fair discussion. I would also like to express my express thanks to him and his colleague, Mr Zehentner. I know he didn't always have it easy, I didn't always have it easy, because there are different positions out of the circumstances. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for this constructive cooperation. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Thus, as he himself held, something has been successful, which has not been successful for years and has been postponed for decades. ==References====External links== January 1988 entered into force, and there you can remember what attempts there were – though, and that is also said: In the case of other basic assets, non-agricultural assets, the last main fixture dates back to 1973. So there is also a need for action, perhaps more than in the field of agriculture – because one always acts as if only the farmers were doing nothing. So this was clearly held here. Ladies and gentlemen, it was of course – and I do not want to look back in resentment at all – not quite easy in view of the attacks that were started by certain organizations, where it was claimed that farmers did not pay taxes and so on and so on. But let's leave it. The positive result is important. Yes, it is a change, and this is also necessary, because there are also some constitutional court findings which have not directly, but also on the verge of dealing with the question of unit value, whether it would still be justified, as it is currently valid. Therefore, in the future, there are 83 percent from the soil evaluation, 13 percent from the payments of the first pillar and 4 percent from the so-called livestock production with 60 hectares of RLN and 120 livestock units. Ladies and gentlemen, now is the case that a amendment is also tabled by me, namely that of Mr Jakob Auer, Mr Jan Krainer, colleagues in the tax-amendment law 2012 (1960 of the Supplements), as amended by the Committee's report (1977 of Supplements): I. Article 2 (amendment of the 1988 Income Tax Act) is amended as follows: 1. In Z 8 the word ‘5 hectares’ replaces the word ‘10 hectares’. III. Article 5 (amendment of the 1994 VAT Act) is amended as follows: 1. ==References====External links== b too late. c and the following lit. b inserted: ‘b) In Abs. 12 the following sentence shall be added: ‘A change in the conditions relevant to the pre-tax deduction also exists if the change is that there is a change in the application of the general rules and the provisions of Section 22 for the deduction of the tax’. There is also the following change – in order to explain only the essentials –: 3rd. In Z 26 it is in § 28 para. 39 The following paragraph 4 is added: ‘4. The amendments to § 12 para. 12 as well as § 22 para. 1 and para. 2 shall apply from the 2014 accounting year. Additional condition is that the first use or use by the entrepreneur in his company as investment assets after 30. This Regulation shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Then there are some changes to the animal value table. This is quite clear, because in the future, of course, livestock production will also be a major source of income: So they're up to it. [[President Mag. Prammer is taking over the presidency again.]] And there are still provisions concerning § 338 regarding compulsory insurance, accident insurance and social security, which is also an important point. And then it's still under VI. Article 25 – Amendment of the 1996 tobacco monopoly law – to be amended as follows: Z 13 reads: ‘13. § 38a para. 1 reads: ‘(1) ==References====External links==* Official website ==References== December 2015 the wholesaler for cigarettes has to pay the following surcharges: - of 1. Years 2013 to 31. A supplement of 50 Eurocents per 1 000 pieces on December 2013 - of 1. ==References== A supplement of 30 Eurocents per 1 000 pieces per December 2014 - of 1. ==References== In December 2015, a surcharge of 10 Eurocents per 1 000 pieces. This supplement shall be dedicated to the Solidarity and Structural Funds for Tobacco Traficants (section 14a) and shall be transferred to them by the 25th of the calendar month following the month of delivery.’; There is also a change in criminal provisions: VII. Article 26 (amendment of the Financial Criminal Act) is amended as follows: Z 6 reads: ‘6. In § 48b para. 2 replaces the amount ‘50 000’ the amount ‘100 000’ and the amount ‘5000’ replaces the amount ‘10 000’. Ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] In this sense, a very comprehensive amendment with regard to the amendment. I believe that today is a very positive day for rural family farms, so that the future for these farms, small and medium-sized enterprises, is secure because they have legal certainty. Thank you once again to colleagues Mr Gaßner and Mr Zehentner. But I do not want to forget to thank my colleague, Mr Totschnig, and especially the Secretary-General August Astl. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e20175	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian The amendment submitted has been explained more than in the main guidelines, and it is explained in accordance with § 53 para. 4 GOG to the MEPs. It is also sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e20462	The motion for a resolution, which has just been tabled by the honourable Member, Auer has been introduced, is properly introduced, sufficiently supported and is also under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e20552	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Matznetter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e20575	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! In order to clarify the discussion, which Mr Podgorschek – I think he was – showed at the beginning: We can say quite frankly that we have tabled another motion for a resolution. Unfortunately, the technical possibilities to make calls with the Minister of State in the flight from Brussels to Vienna have not been given, and that is why we have needed a few minutes left. Mr Gaßner and Mr Auer have explained the part that concerns agriculture. I would like to make a few remarks on the question of the solidarity and structural funds of the Trafikans, which was now the subject of this amendment. First: Austria has found over decades, originally from the supply of war invalids, a very, very great solution, how to create a job opportunity and activity for thousands of people, namely by allowing them to have adequate employment in the form of a traficant or a traficant, within the framework of the monopoly on tobacco products. Of these we have thousands: mostly disabled people who are locked up at five o'clock in the morning and are in business until evening. However, we have the problem of having open borders in the EU since 2008, in fact beginning in 2007, with all those who cross the border having their private need for cigarettes, say 800 pieces, without problems. This means, of course, especially in the border regions, that these people would suddenly have lost this basis for their outcome, which they have been able to have for decades. As of 2008, we have found a great way to secure the existence of these Trafikants by reducing industry, the wholesale money and supporting those trafides that do not even have the yield of 2006, balancing this lost yield and thus ensuring their survival. Today, in many cities and small communities, especially in the border regions, often the only close-up supplier that still exists is the Trafikant. Now the government template, as it has come to the National Council, would have come to an abrupt end of this fund. This would have meant the immediate closure for hundreds, perhaps even for thousands. And I do not need to explain to you, ladies and gentlemen, what that means: Disabled people, border region, perhaps 40 or 50 years old – what is he supposed to do? Where are we going to put that? – That would have been partly one person who would have subsequently burdened social security funds, although they wanted to work, could work and would like to continue this existence. We have now found a good solution in the amendment: We finance at three years through even surcharges on all cigarettes – not as some manufacturers wished, only on the competitor's segment, but even on all – with an additional 12 million to the fund. But we want this fund not only to pay the support, as it has been in recent years, but also to help colleagues in it to make a change, so that it says by structural means: If you want to convert the traffic to another business, you'll get help! If you need a transitional period to the pension, you get a payout! It will be the responsibility of the Federal Minister to ensure in the directives that we do not pay for another three or five years and then face the same problem, but that structural adjustment also takes place. A good solution for which it is also paying off to have small, hollow reforms at the beginning of the agenda item before the decision is taken. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e20626	Mr Eßl is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e20648	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! We are discussing the budget accompanying law, a total of 27 laws – not afraid, I will not go into every single one, but I will also say a few words about the valuation law and the income tax law. We have already decided on the main position for the agricultural properties, namely that there should be a major position with January 2014. It is now a matter of defining the structure of the basis for the survey. Mr Auer has already mentioned that the assessment law now also takes into account the profitability of the land, the income-effective direct payments from the first pillar – 33 percent to the single value – and livestock supplements. I have to say, of course, that it's painful for me. The compromise and the agreement are good, and it is important that we have this compromise. But the increase of the hectare maximum to €2 400 is painful. This is a general increase in unit values. But it is important that you can still use the yield value. This is vital for farmers. In the Income Tax Act, there are now several factors that are restrictive so that one can take advantage of the package. I also admit that the 60-hectare regulation does not necessarily correspond to my ideas, because it may well be that you have a turnover of less than 100 € per hectare. There will also be holdings that do not actually make any relevant sales under the accounting obligation or the partial payment obligation. In general, it's a round story. It is important that we have again planned legal bases for the agricultural farms for the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e20681	Next speaker: Mr Kirchgatterer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e20702	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The Tobacco Tax and Monopolies Act states: It is about having as little smuggled as possible and as little as possible contaminated, unchecked tobacco products, i.e. those without quality control, in Austria. It is essential, indeed, to have a corresponding network of tobacco bars in the federal territory and the tobacco monopoly, the retail monopoly. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Where this orderly distribution system does not exist, for example in Germany in the Ruhr area, 60 percent of consumed tobacco products are smuggled, unchecked and all too often contaminated. But tobacco tax and sales tax are also missing. Ladies and gentlemen! The platform “Rettet die Trafik” pointed out the security of the Trafik network in good time in 2007 and 2008. Dr. Christoph Matznetter, zu this time State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, has developed and enforced the SOLIF solution. The SOLIF is also a key factor in tobacco traficing. And today's decision provides for another three years. I very much welcome this, because this is very much in line with our proposals. The amendment states that the whole tobacco industry has to make its contributions. This is important and fair, and we have also committed ourselves to it. The same distance to the tobacco industry applies to us! I emphasize: We need independence and the same distance to all parts of the tobacco industry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e20754	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Windy. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e20775	Madam President. Estimated Secretary of State! After more than 20 years, the tax-amending law 2012 makes it possible to evaluate the unit value. The assessment law has been put on new legs so that the re-establishment, the main fixation with 1. January 2014 can take place. By the way, the VfGH did not criticise the unit value system on and on itself, but only the missing evaluation. Only its topicality has been missed. Now we are actually changing it to the current yield conditions for land and land within agriculture with all its forms of expression. It was first said that the one-value was only clientele. That's not true! I do not know if you know it, but each of you also has contact with or is affected by the unit value, although not always with the agricultural value, but with the value of buildings, because each of us lives in an apartment or in a house that or we have rented, and if it belongs to us, we pay land tax, derived from the unit value and not from the traffic value of these apartments or these houses. The tenants also pay basic tax via operating costs derived from the unit value and not from the transport value. By the way: Those who are constantly saying that these are too low, which were equal to the traffic value, must be written a hundred times: The unit value is a profit value that reflects the pure income and occurs annually in the form of pensions. The traffic value is a one-time proceeds if one sells an object and depends on the market price. The farmers now live primarily not from the sale of their land but from production, and therefore it is only right and cheap to use the unit value. The best example of comparison is the savings book. No one would think that the KEST would be deducted from the capital, but everyone knows, always only of the yield, of the interest. That would be absurd otherwise. Now we have a new approach: The direct payments of the first pillar will be committed. There is a data network between the AMA, the Ministry of Finance and Social Security to cover the areas under management. The whole is provided resource-savingly, very economical, automated, computer-supported. Just briefly to say exactly what this system will be like: In a special area, in horticulture, a small sector, a total of twelve different categories will be created, production bases, various types of glass houses, different types of foil tunnels, areas also from Freedom and the like. In other words, we are making the exact profit ratios, the basis of production. This is also the requirement of the VfGH, and we are in line with that. In this sense, thanks also to all those responsible from our side, especially for the fact that this cornerstone can now be set for the future of our business leaders, who now also have future fitness and achieve planning security, especially for the young of them.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e20829	Mr Jannach has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e20851	Madam President. I refer in my remarks to the Assessment Act, to the amendment to this Taxation Amendment Act. For us, the tax-change law would actually have to be tax-enhancement law, because what is happening here in the Agricultural Assessment Act is the basis for the future withdrawal of local farmers throughout Austria. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The only one who was half honest today – I congratulated him on his speech on the Green Report – was Mr Eßl. He has clearly said here today that there is a burden on local farmers. All the other Members, whether from the SPÖ or from the ÖVP, have said that small adjustments may be made, but basically only a continuation of what already exists, in other legal forms. To understand: The unit value is the basis for all agricultural levies. Fees, taxes, social security contributions, everything related to them depends on the unit value. And the Assessment Act, which is being amended today, is the basis for the re-evaluation. The amendments have been published by the Federal Farmers' Association, but today this has been kept silent; apart from Mr Eßl, this has not been mentioned here. A total increase in the unit value of all farms by 10 per cent will be achieved. Every farmer – and whoever is sitting in front of the TV should listen! – must know, on average, there will be a 10-percent increase in unit values and thus a 10-percent increase in all taxes depending on it. We will never vote in favour of this by the FPÖ! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Furthermore, the maximum number of hectares will be increased, and, as has already been mentioned, the livestock unit supplements will also be increased. And the public funds that farmers receive as compensation are massively included in the new single value assessment. This will simply increase the unit value. I would just like to point out the following: Since 1995, the income of agriculture – these are figures from Statistics Austria – has decreased by 30 percent. Income in 1995: 22 200 €. – Statistics Austria. Income in 2010: € 22 863. We cannot talk about an increase in income. This is a 30 percent loss of value due to inflation – and we are discussing here whether we should increase unit values for farmers! In my opinion, the values of unity should be lowered. In addition, I would like to add that every third operation has already locked up since 1995 – and that is not a figure that I have invented. And this farmer's death continues. The total increase by 10 percent of the unit value added is increased by the fact that fewer and fewer farmers will actively participate in this tax revenue. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I would also like to point out once again – I have already done so today – the load package that was decided in 2012. The removal of the mineral oil tax refund – €50 million – is only at the expense of farmers. And: Increase in levies for agricultural and forestry farms: an additional 10 million per year. Increase in social security contributions by 2017: 85 million additional burden on agriculture. And the real estate tax, vulgo redirection tax, according to Minister, will make up 200 million or 250 million € a year. This will also mainly affect farmers. One more point: A particular unfrozenness – no one has ever responded to it today – is the change to the Farm Social Insurance Act. There is a minimum basis for contributions: A holding has a certain size if it exceeds it, it is only subject to social security contributions. The law, which is to be adopted here today, provides that these micro-enterprises, when paying social security contributions, fall below the limit of the re-evaluation of unit values where they have to pay contributions, whereas those enterprises – Go out here and explain [[Abg. Jakob Auer: You have no idea!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] That's what you're [[Abg. Donabauer: That's not true!]] Then I'll read it to you. If you want, I can read it to you too. I quote: "In the future, entry into compulsory insurance will only take place if the actual operating basis changes. However, compulsory insurance should also be able to be maintained if the limit would only be lowered by a new main determination of the unit values if it was not managed.” On the other hand, the other holdings, which fall below the limit due to the re-evaluation, remain in compulsory insurance. – We will firmly reject that! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It is particularly terrifying for me that this additional burden has been negotiated by the Austrian Chambers of Agriculture. The agricultural Chambers have the task of representing farmers and negotiating in the interests of farmers and not of promoting an increase in contributions, only in order to increase their own housing. – We strongly reject that! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] One thing I would like to address, on the current occasion – unfortunately, the Minister for Finance is not here – is the red tape. You know, all the properties sold today are subject to the real estate tax, if you want to. Every property owner has to pay it when selling, any property owner, including any farmer. There is one exception, and this concerns land resources. The land assets are not included in the real estate income tax or VAT for the added value when selling land. If you have gold finds on your property, if you have oil finds, I think you have an absolute added value. Oil will not do much to help you, because oil is such that it belongs to the state. Gold will belong to him who finds it. Salt will also belong to the covenant. According to Professor Doralt, there is one variant: Scutter. If you own a property and have gravel on this property, then you are not affected by the increase tax. And the Minister of Finance has an affinity with Schotter. We will still look very closely at why exactly this area – exactly this area: You son of a bitch! – which means a maximum added value for a plot has been excluded from taxation. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] I really have the impression that the Minister of Finance might be – possibly! – used their position to take advantage of this tax advantage for the gravel owners. While land owners, property owners and also farmers are heavily affected by tax increases, the increase in value is not taken into account by a gravel fund on the property. You still have to look at that very carefully. We have the feeling that they or women have directed it there. It is terrifying for me to see what unscrupulousness – it was provided in the law that the added value of the property was also taken into account by gravel finds and similar things – which was ultimately removed from the text of the law. We have also prepared a request for this. The Minister for Finance will certainly have to give us a speech and answer.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e20951	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. The rapporteur does not wish for a final word. First of all, we are voting on the draft law in 1977. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have tabled a supplementary or amendment tabled by Mr Jakob Auer, Mr Krainer, Mr von Wogau. There is also a desire for a separate vote by Mr Fichtenbauer. First of all, I will have to vote on the parts of the bill, which are subject to separate voting, and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. We shall vote on the supplementary or amendment amendment tabled by Mr Jakob Auer, Mr Krainer, Mr President, on Articles 2 and 4. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who join these amendments to give a corresponding sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to a separate vote on Rule 5(18). a as amended by the Committee's report. I would ask those members of the House who speak out for these parts of the bill to be a positive sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall also vote on the supplementary or amendment amendment tabled by Mr Jakob Auer, Mr Krainer, Mr President, on Rule 5: Amendment to the designation of paragraph 18 lit. (b) and the insertion of a new point 18 lit. b. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to it to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to a separate vote on Rule 5(19) as amended by the Committee's report. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to it to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on the amendment or amendment tabled by Mr Jakob Auer, Mr Krainer, Mr Krainer, on the insertion of a new point 23a in Article 5, Article 5(26) and Article 6, 7, 25 and 26. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of these amendments to be a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. Finally, we shall vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their agreement to do so to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Jakob Auer, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Kurt Gässner, colleagues on assessment guidelines for unit values. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is accepted by a majority. (E 273.) [[21:28:03]] 25. Point Report of the Budget Committee on the Government Template (1961, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law approving the justification of charges by the Federal Minister for Transport, Innovation and Technology (1978 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e21080	We reach the 25th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. First of all, Mr Magistrate. Rossmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e21107	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! We still recall the 2012 to 2017 Framework Plan, which was voted in spring, and the unrest and scandal he caused, because he was not presented and therefore the impact of the financial nature associated with it could not in fact be assessed by this House and by the Members. The framework plan for the ÖBB’s rail infrastructure investments for the period 2013 to 2018 was already presented in autumn. This is, in any case, a great step forward, on the one hand from time to time, because it has been sent to all clubs in good time, so that the clubs can at least take a partial picture of the predispositions associated with these investments. Why do I just say “a partial picture ”? – A partial picture, therefore, because the total loads, which amount to approximately €37.7 billion, will only be broken down in their payment flows by 2018, but not for the period thereafter until 2067. - That's the one point. The second point is that part of these pre-taxes relates to grant contracts for the operation and maintenance. There was no information on this to the House and the Members, so it is still very difficult to assess the effects and whether these effects are justified. So this information is still missing, and we would believe that they would be presented in the next framework plan that we can probably expect for the coming autumn. But the big problem we have with these presuppositions is that although there is a division in the financing between the federal government on the one hand and the Austrian government on the other – 75 percent of the federal government carries, 25 percent carry the ÖBB – it is totally unclear how the ÖBB should finance these 25 percent. This will probably not be eligible for funding from the rail infrastructure charge alone. In other words, this financing of the railway infrastructure should probably lead to further debt being incurred by the ÖBB and, at some point, to the time when these debts of the ÖBB have to be repaid. And then I already hear the voices of the ÖVP, and then I hear again how high the grants to the ÖBB are and must be, and then again I hear Mr. State Secretary Lopatka doing a campaign against the ÖBB and say that all this is far too high, the grants that must be made to the ÖBB are too high. [[Abg. Neugebauer: That's right!]] Well, it would be a matter of considering whether you really need to finance all the projects that are planned – an example would be the Brenner base tunnel. So here it is really important to go through these projects and see if there are any projects of these burdens on the ÖBB or also on the federal government, which can lead to a discharge of federal funding on the one hand, and on the other hand, but also to a discharge of the ÖBB. What I would like to say positively in this context is that with the 2013 budget, for the first time, these finances have been transparently presented and in fact also correctly recorded in the budget. Until 2012, this was always a coffee reading. This is one of the progress made by the new budgetary law. But still in the dark is and remains – and on this the government is ours and the representatives of the ÖVP and the SPÖ are responsible for us –: How can ÖBB make these annuity payments of 25 percent for the 2013 to 2018 framework plan? – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e21147	Next speaker: Mrs Fürntrath-Moretti. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e21168	Madam President. High house! With our agreement, we provide €38 billion for infrastructure measures for the years 2013 to 2018. One of these infrastructure measures concerns, above all, Styria, namely the construction of the Semmering base tunnel. The costs of the Semmering base tunnel amount to €3.1 billion and are co-financed by the EU. The construction period is 12 years, from 2012 to 2024. As the Styrian Member, I note the following: The Semmering Base Tunnel is a key project for Styria. We need this improved infrastructure measure. I would like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President, for his excellent report. Ladies and gentlemen! We need mobility. The economy needs mobility. And what do we expect from mobility? – We expect reliability, we expect safety, we expect efficiency and speed, and we also expect mobility to be running. – With this new South Railway we will meet all these expectations. One word about speed: If you are going from Graz to Vienna or from Vienna to Graz, you need two and a half hours. In the future, when the South Railway track is finished, you only need more than one hour 50 minutes – after all, a 40 minute savings. One word on efficiency: There is no other crossroads in freight transport, which have so great increases. It is forecast that an increase of 80 percent will occur. Finally, a few other economic aspects: During the construction phase, approximately 10,000 people are employed. After that, when the track is finished, in the operating phase, there will be 15,000 employees. And 30 percent of investments return as tax revenue. Value added is the two and a half times each euro invested. The expansion of the South Railway therefore brings us economic growth and employment, the corresponding economic benefit is therefore also undisputed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e21217	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Widmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e21238	Madam President. High house! This item on the agenda – please? [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Heinzl and Mr Haberzettl.]] [[Abg. Haberzettl: Praise the ÖBB!]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Heinzl.]] I would like to pay tribute to SPÖ's intention to praise the ÖBB, because I am in favour of infrastructure, my dear colleagues from SPÖ, and I am also in favour of a well-developed rail infrastructure. That's why we've always been to the Semmering Base Tunnel. [[Abg. Haberzetl: Bravo!]] - Yes! ‘Bravo’ at SPÖ. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] – For the Protocol: I'm glad to see you at the SPÖ. This is also important because we can thus connect Carinthia closer to the Styria and thus also the south of Austria more closely to the Federal Capital. But I also say one thing: Of course, the Minister for Infrastructure has presented the 2013 to 2018 framework plan, including with very concrete project projects – that is important and good to know what we are voting on – but what we have a problem is how to finance these almost €38 billion by 2067. Mr Rossmann of the Greens has already shown that one can understand the funding by 2018, but then we are 50 years in the dark, and I believe that one cannot answer this in the sense of a responsible sustainable financial policy, which has also been addressed by “Professor” Krainer from SPÖ today. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haberzetl]] And as long as this is not clear, and it is not clear what own resources the ÖBB will provide here, we will not be able to give our consent to this project, this financing plan, which is certainly the most concrete in terms of content, but not the financing plan.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e21319	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Kuzdas. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e21340	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! One thing is undisputed, namely that securing a high-performance infrastructure is crucial for the economic and labour location of Austria. This is a task of the Republic that we have outsourced to ÖBB-Infrastructure AG. The fact that not every year is shown financially may also have something to do with the duration of use, because no company is fully financing projects that have a lifetime of over 50 years, but it always takes into account the annuities. Infrastructural expenditure – we have already heard this today – has a huge economic advantage. We know that a euro of investment leads to an additional value added, to an increase in GDP of one euro. For comparison: Purchasing incentives, a purchase power increase by one euro through a tax reform has only about half of the benefit, i.e. 40 to 50 cents. In other words, infrastructure investment is expected to reach a high level in the first year itself. One billion of investment leads to the creation or protection of some 17 000 jobs. The projects of the ÖBB and the ASFINAG guarantee around 50 000 jobs annually, so it is necessary, from the point of view of the economy and the economic location of Austria, to secure long-term infrastructure expenditure. It is necessary for the economy and the economy to secure these investments in the long term, because these investments benefit the economy, the citizens and the counterparts. With the implementation of the framework plan, hundreds of railway stations and terminals are being rebuilt or renovated, barrier-free design, freight terminals designed, noise protection facilities improved, slow-tracks renovated and high-performance trains expanded. We will not, we have already heard, justify expenditure, but this template is an authorisation to impose charges of around €38 billion in the period up to 2018. This creates planning security and ensures further improvement of rail infrastructure for Austria. This is quite, very important for the economy and for the economic location. This proposal therefore deserves broad approval in this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e21380	Next speaker: Mrs Kaufmann-Bruckberger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e21402	Madam President. Mr. State Secretary! High house! ==References== We discussed the infrastructure framework for the first time on April this year. At the time, I considered this to be totally unacceptable, because this framework was simply not presented at the committee meeting a day before the opposition. At that time, you, ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ and ÖVP, took place on 18 June. On April 1st, it was decided that the other members of the committee would not be able to do so. At that time, €33 billion was released for infrastructure projects by 2017, and basically, one did not even know what to do. Today we are dealing with the same issue, and I think you must now note that you voted on something where we have to say today that the figures have not voted. In concrete terms, a mistake is to be resolved, which will cost around €5 billion in extra costs. That is to say, the Austrian taxpayers will have to cover the whole thing once again. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haberzetl.]] Mr Krainer said yes at the time: Transparency and clarity for infrastructure investment. – I agreed to him at the time, I agree with him today, but at that time he made himself madly strong for numbers that have not voted from the very beginning. He also said in the Committee at that time that this project investment would certainly be threefold. – We know nothing about it today. Transparency and clarity? . As I said, you decide on expenditure that will be presented to you without even having examined them in the approach, and you, at least the SPÖ, as Mr Krainer confirmed at the time, were aware of the framework plan. I'm basically missing the invitation from our vice chancellor, who asked Frank Stronach to clean up the ÖBB. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hornek.]] Frank Stronach has said that he is willing to explore the ÖBB and look at the structures in order to make good proposals for the renovation. – So far, this invitation has not taken place. Ladies and gentlemen, as long as it is not clear how the ÖBB will deal with our money, with the money of Austrian taxpayers, as long as the figures do not vote, as long as one does not correct the final calculations for these expenditures, there will be no consent from us.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e21459	Now comes Mr Mag. Hammer to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e21480	Madam President. Mr. State Secretary! With this law we decide today to impose pre-taxes on the Republic by 2018 for investments in the development and modernisation of rail and rail infrastructure. I believe it is undisputed that we take on great responsibility for the future with this decision, because we simply commit funds for many years in advance. This is a very clear word, because it is also repeatedly misused in the discussion: It makes a difference whether you are investing, creating something and going into financial commitments, or whether you are burdening the coming generations through debt without creating something or being in the final cover. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It is therefore clear to us as an ÖVP: We want to invest in the future and bring Austria forward, but on the other hand, we are of course also for saving, for balanced budgets, and thus for future prospects for the next generations – so invest and also consolidate on the other hand. This law, which covers this package, covers a framework plan covering some 200 individual measures, and, as in every federal state, modernisation measures are being taken in the railway sector throughout the Upper Austria. As Oberösterreicher and as Mühlviertler than here I feel particularly worthy of mention the Summerauerbahn and the expansion of further Bahnhofsprojekte. I would also like to mention here regarding my federal state in a sentence that there will be decisive negotiations over the next few weeks as regards the operation and continuation of the regional railways. I believe that the federal government and the country should work together for a solution and for attractive transport links in rural areas and for the commuters. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I am convinced that the railway will be an important transport of the future and that we must make appropriate efforts to make the railway more attractive in order to win even more people for the changeover to the railway. I believe that we are taking important steps here with this package, and that is why this decision is also necessary.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e21538	Next speaker: Mr Dipl.-Ing. Deimek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e21565	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Mr. former trade union secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! We discuss pre-loads here through the BMVIT. – This means nothing but long-term financial agreements for infrastructure. That's where we go. Infrastructure is more than short-term employment, is more than anywhere a few concrete mixers, is more than a few construction workers. It's location policy. We sign that, and behind it we stand. But that is the only thing behind which we stand with this concept, because we demand more. We want this action to be recognised from the local policy. Austria is falling in competitiveness. We heard this morning that we were almost an island of the Blessed through the EU, but if you take it exactly – and exactly does the Swiss Management Institute IMD – we were in place 14, now we are in place 18 and we have fallen back to number 21. The same is true of the World Economic Forum. This does not come from about, but it comes from a slow but surely ever worse-growing infrastructure. And if you say it differently – not scientifically, like these institutions, but like the Kabarettist Alf Poier – it is, ladies and gentlemen: That's when you make the biggest Vienna homehander the chancellor. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] €300 billion in GDP gives a potential of €27 billion for our infrastructure, which we do not use optimally. This is primarily a question of thinking European – and we must think European in terms of infrastructure. To the transition of goods, from people from road to rail – even if we have a high modal value –: The track is not always equipped because it does not have the capital. And we don't give it to her. Look Please take a look at the Vienna–Munich line! It leads over the so-called Rieder Cross. How does that look like? Our side out? - That's a better regional railway. The Germans now build a high-performance line until Mühldorf, and in between the Austrians drive with a diesel locomotive, but only more until December. That's the real shame! That's European thought! This is a relief, because we know very well that, for example, the power line across Salzburg is chronically overloaded anyway. The Rolling Landstraße could have been driving over the Inn quarter for a long time – other trains could also cross the Inn district! But we don't have the money. And where is the whole thing – everything about “European thinking” and the measures? – Not somewhere Mr. Deimek thought of it, that’s in there, in the Future Business Austria Infrastructure Report 2013 by Create Connections of David Hungarian-Klein. [[The speaker shall keep a convoy of documents up to date]] You can read all of this, because the sins of your coalition government are inside, ladies and gentlemen. And there's also inside, how to actually do it, like a company. The first is debt reduction. – We have plenty of money for the administration, for friendship services in other countries. Ladies and gentlemen! We're building a budget hole up to Greece, but we don't have money for our own holes in the mountains! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The second point is that we need an infrastructure holding or a new building holding, we can now discuss what we call it. The new construction of the railway and the ASFINAG belong together. It is not possible to discuss – I would have said almost “black half of the empire” – the black 20 percent – how it is then with the debt and with the 7 billion. We have enormous liability, Mr Grastaur has said today, but we do not even have a quarter of this liability for the infrastructure, but more than two thirds of the liability for export financing, and this is at best development cooperation or economic promotion, but the infrastructure is of no use at all. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The next thing is: strategic planning and rapid building. - It doesn't look good either. Because we have such high debt, the projects are squeaked out in the back like a sausage summer, where the sausage comes out in the back. And then what happens? - We know that from the main station. – There are purely numerical increases. There are, because the national leaders then always get funny again and again, replanning during the construction period and additional interest. Finally, it is surprising that the projects have become more expensive. – It can't be! So: build quickly, even if we have debt, but save it in the administration. The fourth point: Efficiency gains in existing infrastructure. – Now we have a high-performance route across Semmering, we have a rail jet going down there. And how fast does he go to Semmering? 250 km/h? - No, I don't. 180 km/h? - No, I don't. Because the rail jet rises on the regional trains, it can at best drive 150 km/h. Somewhere between 140, 150, 160 km/h, the poor train moves to Semmering! And this is the infrastructure policy we want? – We are slowing down our ÖBB itself! Fifth point: intelligent transport systems, the wise connection of road and train, the exploitation of the advantages and disadvantages of each system. Electronic connection and intelligent transport systems, ladies and gentlemen, especially of the Greens, should actually start when you make a park pickerl. We cannot simply ignore the traffic flows that result. So to speak, the double taxation of the double-citizen, we certainly do not need it. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] However, we need a central station as a transport hub, a logistics center that also deserves this name – and not a smear of smear in infrastructure policy, but a proper money! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e21680	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Steßl-Mühlbacher. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e21702	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! High house! I am always surprised what appears during the debates. And I was surprised by Mr Deimek's statement, as I heard so many times in his speech "thinking European" that I was almost trying to believe that this European idea really begins to work on a sustainable basis, but at the end of his contribution I unfortunately had to recognise that it was not. [[call to the FPÖ.]] To Mrs Collaborator Kaufmann-Bruckberger: Information is not only a bearer's debt, it is also a culprit, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: You still can't agree!]] The framework plan at that time was also distributed to the club people, perhaps you have Her former Klubobmann Bucher did not, no idea, at least it is available everywhere and already published on the Internet. I would also like to clarify the following: This law, which we are currently adopting, does not justify new expenditure, it merely creates the budgetary conditions for the Treaties, and the binding commitment or commitment is only made with the conclusion of the Treaty. The Federal Government has also shown, in particular, with the framework plan and the economic policy measures during the economic crisis, how to invest sustainably, including in the area of transport infrastructure, especially in the context of the Styria Framework Plan, whether it is the expansion of the Graz Central Station, which is 167.9 million, or also the expansion of the station in the city of Feldbachbach. There are a wide variety of economic-invigorating measures, and this is also very important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e21745	Next speaker: Mr Haberzettl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e21767	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr State Secretary! What do you want me to say? [[Cheerfulness at the SPÖ.]] - I'll tell you what it is. In the area of railway infrastructure, the government programme provides for a continuation of investment in rail infrastructure. The new budgetary law changes the framework rather in the direction of transparent presentation, which is very welcome – we have agreed together. The framework conditions are that both the legislator and the lender with the company ÖBB, in order to be able to carry out the planning reliably and to ensure planning for longer periods, indicate at least six-year framework contracts for the area of infrastructure, depending on the chapter where investment is made. These framework agreements also prevent negative effects on employment and location. The purpose of this draft is therefore to create the budgetary authority to justify the pre-taxes resulting from the investments by 2018 and the resulting annuities by 2067. Why only until 2018? – The year 2018 results in the framework being fixed and decided only for six years. That is, it is difficult to define something beyond 2018, which is not at all established. This is the problem highlighted here by Mr Rossmann. In 2014, the Framework Plan will be adopted by 2019 and 2015 until 2020. However, it is also clear that: This law requires a new law on the subject of pre-load in 2019 – we now only manage it until 2018. It is clear that the link between framework and funding is clearly raised to the third level, a transparent presentation is made. I think BMVIT is the first ministry to implement the new budgetary law in this form. I think this is a right way to go, because it also shows the taxpayer in a responsible way what happens to his money, during which period it is invested in the infrastructure.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e21824	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. No final word is desired on the part of the reporting. We shall come to the vote on the draft law, the title and receipt of the supplements in 1978. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who will also give their approval to this draft law at third reading to give a sign. – In turn, this is the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[21:58:16]] 26. Point First reading: Parliament's motion for a resolution (Doc. Barbara Prammer, Fritz Neugebauer, Mag. Dr. Martin Graf, colleagues in a federal law amending the Federal Law on the Rules of Procedure of the National Council (Regulatory Act 1975) (2104/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e21885	Finally, we arrive at the 26th. Agenda item. There are no words to this effect. I hereby accept the motion for a resolution 2104/A to the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. The agenda is exhausted. [[21:58:52]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00179_d7e21922	I am still announcing that in today's session, the self-employed have received applications from 2111/A(E) to 2115/A. Questions 13022/J to 13026/J were also raised. The next meeting of the National Council on business communications and allocations will be convened at 21.59 a.m., which is immediately after this meeting. This meeting is closed.
