ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-23-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00143_d8e6420	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen! I'll open the 143. Meeting of the National Council, which is based on a sufficiently supported request in accordance with § 46 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure. The official protocols of 140. Meeting of 18 March 1990 January 2012 as well as 141 and 142. Meeting of 19. In January 2012, the Parliament's Directorate remained unanswered and undisputed. Deputies Schönpass, Dr. Wittmann, Jakob Auer, Dr. Bartenstein, Gahr, Mag are reported to have been prevented. Gerstl, Lausch, Dr. Winter, Dr. Moser, Dr. Pilz and Mag. Steinhauser. Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-23-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00143_d8e6454	For this meeting, the Federal Chancellery on the representation of members of the Federal Government made the following statement: The Federal Minister for the Interior of Power. Johanna Mikl- Leitner is the Federal Minister for Agriculture, Forestry, Environment and Water Management Dipl.-Ing. Nikolaus Berlakovich. Time-limitation request
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-23-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00143_d8e6487	Before entering the agenda, I shall inform the honourable Members. Kogler, ladies and gentlemen, requested that the Constitutional Committee report on the motion for a resolution 945/A(E) concerning ‘glass party funds’ be limited to 7. ==References== In addition, this is the case of five delegates, according to § 43 para. 3 publishers submitted by the Rules of Procedure to hold a brief debate on this request for a time limit. As this meeting called for urgent debate on a written question, the brief debate will take place following this one. The vote on the request for a deadline will take place after the end of this debate. I would also like to say that there is a request for a short debate on Mr Bucher's request to report to the Constitutional Committee on the motion for a resolution 1826/A(E) a deadline of three days. ==References== As there is a desire by the Greens for a short debate, this debate is not called for. The vote on this request will take place after the first vote. [[10:19:35]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-23-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00143_d8e6527	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-23-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00143_d8e6884	According to § 93 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure called for the written question 10652/J tabled at the beginning of the sitting by Mr Glavischnig-Piesczek, colleagues and colleagues to the Federal Chancellor on the consolidation package of the Federal Government: socially unbalanced, no structural reforms, too little investment in the future and not enough shy about it. The call for urgent request will take place at 1.15 p.m. I am already drawing attention to the fact that the session will be transferred live from 13.15 to 4 p.m. to ORF 2. ORF III forwards the entire session live. I am now interrupting the sitting by 1.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-23-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00143_d8e6922	Ladies and gentlemen! I'll start the interrupted session again. [[13:15:36]] Request for urgent procedure by Dr Eva Glawischnig-Piesczek, colleagues in the Federal Chancellor on the consolidation package of the Federal Government: socially unbalanced, no structural reforms, too little future investment and above all shy (10652/J)
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-23-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00143_d8e6958	We are now entering the urgent debate on the written question 10652/J. As this has now been done to all the Members of Parliament, their reading by the scribe is not sufficient. The urgent question has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-23-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00143_d8e7252	I declare Mrs. Dr. Glawischnig-Piesczek as the questioner for the justification of the urgent question, which according to § 53 para. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-23-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00143_d8e7273	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government – if you have taken all the places! Ladies and gentlemen, As a confident, optimistic parliamentarian, we would have all expected that the Federal Government, after negotiating hard over weeks and agreeing, will not only present its package to the public, but will also state on its own what Austria is going to do for the next five years. Unfortunately, that was not the case. We opposition parties have agreed on a special meeting and have now forced the Federal Government to appear here in the house and, from my point of view, to perceive a matter of course, namely this package and also the many open questions that become more common every day. The number of these open points is getting longer and longer. This savings package of the Federal Government now looks like a card house from which every day a piece is drawn out and much more unclear. But I start with the positive: After the performance of the last two and a half years, who would have bet on this federal government? We've experienced a lot. Due to land-based election campaigns, budgets have been unconstitutionally postponed. We have experienced meetings that were almost exclusively filled with opposition day-to-day items. So who would have bet on this federal government that it would have created a package at all? I must honestly say, I was pessimistic. After all: There's a package now. And there are also, of course, individual measures that can be supported, which are also quite reasonable. And this savings package, compared with other European countries, is probably not worse. There are certainly worse and more unreasonable savings packages in other European countries. But you still have to measure this package with other standards. This is the policy for the next five years. It's a acidity. It is a political change – and this is against a background that is very serious. We are going to face very difficult times in Europe in terms of economic policy. This package should actually set the course for Austria. And there you can only formulate very harsh criticism: Social justice is missing. There is a lack of wide-ranging vision, especially of courage as regards reforms. And most of all, there is a lack of investment. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Investment is lacking particularly in an area where we have heard mantras, self-conspiracy formulas, namely in the field of education. From my point of view, from our point of view – especially dramatic for many people – investments in the future areas of environmental protection and climate protection are also lacking. And above all – and this is also a reason for today’s special meeting –: A third of this package's cheated. As we, I think, should now also know from the European debate: In the case of budget questions and savings packages, you should not cheat and not mogel. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] There would have been a chance to make a big throw. The external conditions were actually good in this respect. I wonder, How much pressure does one have to put on reforms in Austria, take turns, says what is important, what priority is given to make Austria sustainable, really go forward one step, so not only to satisfy rating agencies or to serve financial markets, but really to take a step forward for the country? – But unfortunately this has not happened. The hardest criticism point – and this is the critical point that you personally meet as Federal Chancellor – is the lack of social justice. And I'm wondering, When is it time for social justice? When is it time for that? We've been following your poster campaigns for two and a half years. I can very well understand former SPÖ members, who now use the means of popular desire, because they are deeply disappointed that social justice is anything but balanced in this package. On the contrary! Let us take a look at the environment in which this package is moving now! - Maybe you could listen to me a little if that's all right? [[Unrest in the hall.]] I'm trying to make it exciting, too, ladies and gentlemen, but I'm asking for a little rest. Three and a half years have passed since the outbreak of the financial market crisis, and there have been strong promises across Europe regarding stronger financial market regulation, reduction of highly speculative investment forms, bans on certain types of investment, financial transaction tax, tighter supervisory authorities, tighter financial market authorities. – And what did the population actually get from it? So far, you've got nothing to do with it! On the other hand: Bank rescues, economic packages, economic support – all this has gone on. All the more fatal is the social disparity and the sharper you are to criticise that you are not redeeming the promise of social justice in this package. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It is the social weak, those who have neither caused the crisis nor benefited in advance from the main burden. I would like to quote Stephan Schulmeister, because I would not have dared to express it so clearly. He formulated it as follows: Don't forget: Much of the government debt has been incurred across Europe because the states saved the money of the rich during the banking crisis. And they don't have to take part now. - Quote. The day after the presentation of the savings package, the election campaign began again. As Federal Chancellor, after you have just negotiated a package for the next five years, you start again with the promise of a reformed inheritance tax, a reformed gift tax and an asset tax. What does the people think of such a ambiguity, of such a dual pomp, of having a package completed for the next five years, but to get back on the day after and act as if there were not this package, and to make election struggle, to make PR, to advertise and not to see that it is actually about politics, about politics for the people?- Oh, my God! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] You can also present what is contained in the package very well with numbers once again, and there we note: The lowest, the weakest, the smallest incomes pay a disproportionately high share. They're already wondering: Why, on the one hand, so unimaginably attack the small officials' salaries, the small pensions and on the other hand old politicians' privileges, old politicians' pensions of €8,000? – Haven You're making a statement about that? Is that your understanding of social justice? You have the opportunity to clarify this today. Reduced spending, particularly in the innovative areas of our society, on women's projects, youth projects, especially education projects, and all the innovative school reforms, including the "New Secondary School", are affected. Is this your understanding of justice, since it is completely inventive, but to leave the great wealth completely untouched? They stay completely untouched! – I now have no understanding of this, and I ask you: Save Get the money for the next poster campaign! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] One can be of different opinion when saving the building, but I know there is probably no grandma and no grandpa who does not conclude a construction contract at the birth of the grandchildren. Do you have to grab that? – This area, together with the provision of the future, is more important than the contribution of the best-earners. I think social justice looks different, certainly not so! [[It was in favour of the Greens as well as of representatives of FPÖ and BZÖ.]] I know what you will point out in your reply. They will point out that you have already implemented a number of measures in the field of justice in the field of assets. I would like to start by dissuading this argument, because it is not a real takeover of the rich, if you just take a title, then change a fuel and do not attack the real substance, such as group taxation. This is the contribution that multinationals should make in this savings package. Many experts say that this is a pure placebo, which has only been written in so that the word “group taxation ” is in it. And so it is with all these areas! [[Consistency with greens and FPÖ as well as with the Abg. Bucher.]] The best-earners, just 20 000 people: in a range of 400 million euros, 100 million euros per year. – I don’t think that’s actually what these people can do. There's more power possible. It remains a very dull and a very bitter side taste. Especially those who could afford to make a very low contribution. But the little ones and the little ones contribute disproportionately. But from my point of view, that is not the biggest criticism. The cheating is also a huge problem. And there, too, is continuing with regard to social justice. One can be of different opinion as to the question of Switzerland. Are there negotiations, are there no negotiations? We don't know. The fact is that the Swiss State Secretariat has announced that there is no negotiation of a tax agreement. I am, however, against this tax amnesty in principle, and I also tell you why. I find it extremely unfair that every small saver in Austria pays 25 percent on its revenues and you now retroactively grant an amnesty in a range of 12 to 50 billion €, i.e. already a large fortune that is parked there. And most of them are parked in black, so they are not taxed honestly in Austria. Why are you giving an amnesty? Why even? Why Care You're not trying to get those proceeds? Anyone who withdraws taxes in Austria is punished, of course, has to pay taxes and is also punished. Why is this not possible in this case? I don't think that's all right. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] With a billion you'll set it up. It's a scam. But the greater criticism is also there social justice. The same applies to the financial transaction tax. – Okay, it may be that you have spoken positively at European level or have been trying to introduce it. It may be. The fact is that there is another way to go, and the fact is that these funds are also entered in the EU budget. – How to come Do you even owe these 500 million 1 : 1 to the Austrian budget? And what's your plan B? Have you agreed with the ÖVP that there will then be an exchange rate tax, also an old promise of the SPÖ? An old promise of the Federal Chancellor: If we do not impose a financial transaction tax, there is again a bank rate tax in Austria! - Is that agreed? You can comment on this today. I'm afraid, unfortunately, no. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I come to the two other points which we strongly criticize. The lack of social justice, the shyness, and the third point are the missing reforms. This is probably something we will discuss over the next 20 years. How many of these almost 600 administrative reform measures of the Court of Auditors are actually included in the package? - I think it's a handful. [[Abg. Grosz: Not one!]] – No, let’s be fair, not one, a handful, a few will be inside. – But today you have the opportunity to answer how many it is and when the others will come: 2050, 2080? I don't know, maybe in a hundred years? And is it true that you promised the countries to have something like a veto right in future tax reforms? That means that the reform inability of this country will continue to be cemented?- Oh, my God! – You can comment on this today. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Is it your only contribution to democracy reform, simply to save 10 percent of Members, wherever you go? Does this have anything to do with democracy reform? – We have been in the Austrian Convention for many years and have considered reasonable reform proposals for Austria. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] We have prepared them, we have presented them. You weren't there, I think. I've spent a lot of life there. I believe that it would be far more important for the people, especially in the direction of ÖVP, to finally adopt strict anti-corruption laws here and restore confidence. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I can already understand that it is unpleasant to have a Parliament that is self-confident, that controls the use of a committee of inquiry. Only what has become known today, namely that Deutsche Telekom wants to recover €20 million for its customers due to the facts that have now come to light, will save more. So a little bit of saving also with the brain and not just just passing over with the pencil would be appropriate! They are nodding now, but I would also like to see a little more self-confidence by Members sitting here not only to take up laws that the government is laying down, but rather to sit here to control them, in particular those of the ÖVP. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Call the ÖVP: Awesome!]] - I'm sorry. - I'm sorry. - Well, I have to say honestly: I think it is immense that we have promises of ÖVP and SPÖ, signed by the club members, to introduce investigation committees as minority law. [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. Bucher.]] I don't know how long that's been. I'm sure for a year and a half, at least. [[Abg. Bucher: Two years!]] – Mr Bucher, two years soon, in summer there will be two years. What about it? If you already want to talk about democracy and control: Come with this promise! This also belongs to such a package: More democracy, more control! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The fourth problem – and this is a huge black hole – is always your so-called future investment. So you take ten apples, take three of them away, then give three back, give these three a mesh, and then say: These are our offensives! [[Abg. May. Kogler: You only returned two!]] This is your way of dealing with education policy! It is really objectionable with what tricks you put together your billions here to suggest to the population that you would invest in education. That's real cheating! That's what we've had at Loipersdorf, and we've got it back here. Really, the schools will have less money at their disposal, and that's bitter, that's really bitter! Contrary to all promises, particularly with the cuts in discretionary expenditure, very many innovative projects are cut off. And we need these in the Austrian school system like a bite of bread – like a bite of bread! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] You have, of course, also failed to observe a future area in this budget in spite of advertisers and in spite of years of mantras. There were many, many proposals, not only from the Greens, also from environmental organisations, from many experts who once counted environmentally harmful subsidies in Austria. Here the billions are literally on the street – literally on the road! And these constant promises – ecologizing the tax system, a green financial reform, even a reasonable tax reform, where the taxing of the environment and energy consumption is more demanding, are not able to relieve work – once in a working group. When will there be working groups on tax reform at last? Or do the nine heads of state now sit inside and decide what we may decide in the covenant or not? But in this area, our great concern – and we already have evidence in this direction from the ministries that confirm this – is that it is actually being shortened that the climate protection sector should be reduced by €200 million in key instruments, environmental support in the home, climate and energy funds. [[Interference of Vice-Cancellor Dr. Spindelegger.]] – No, it’s now proven! – You can then answer it in detail! And on the other hand, there are these unscrupulous certificates purchases from abroad that do not bring value added in the country, not in the workplace, no innovation for Austria, but that they should continue to burn money – in the truest sense of the word. I would be interested in your opinion, Mr Bundeskanzler, whether you share these projects from the Minister for the Environment, the Minister for Advertisers, Berlakovich, with regard to these key environmental instruments, because we now need investments in growth areas, whether you support this self-respect of climate change or if you do so. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Minister of Advertising!]] – By the way, I am in favour of turning off, because this also causes massive damage to the economic location. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] So there is a lack of social justice, there is no far-reaching view of the reforms, there is no investment in education, there is no climate protection. And as far as the scams are concerned, now you have time to explain. You also have time to rethink in many cases, and – this is the good news a day – it is still time to reverse. And as a self-confident Parliament, we also have the opportunity to prevent things in many of these areas, to improve things and also to send reforms on the journey. Of the Greens you will always have the votes, at any time, for reasonable two-thirds decisions, for reasonable health reforms, for example. We are at any time involved in lifting this at the federal level for a central control. We are ready at any time. It's enough time to reverse. Take advantage of them and take constructive offers, even if they come from the opposition, true! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-23-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00143_d8e7507	Because he is here in the National Council for the first time in his capacity, I can very much welcome the new Vice-President of the European Parliament, Othmar Karas, and wish him all the best. [[General condolences.]] We now come to answer the urgent question. Mr Faymann spoke on this point. The speaking time should not exceed 20 minutes. - Please, Federal Chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-23-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00143_d8e7537	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! It already shows the way in which the discussion has been held in recent days, but of course also now that it has succeeded in conducting a budget, consolidation, a stability discussion in Austria, which is very different from that in other European countries. We do not discuss the introduction of mass taxes, we do not discuss horrors, the removal of social systems and the reorganisation of a budget at the expense of the poorest, we do not discuss high rates of unemployment or youth unemployment, which are increasing even further, but we are discussing individual points of a consolidation package of approximately €27 billion by 2016, where then topics such as a reduction in the funding for building savings of up to €18 per year suddenly become the focus, or a discussion about whether one can reduce deputies, or other individual points, which, of course, all have their rights in the discussion, but in their entirety, already indicate what we have succeeded. [[Abg. Bookbooker: You've already done that!]] [[Abg. Grosz: That's all you've done anyway!]] We have been able to present a socially balanced package which, unlike other countries in that country, does not enter into social contradictions, into conflicts that result in demonstrations and demonstrations on the road and lead to strikes or even general strikes and where, due to the measures taken by the governments there, there is a deep gap in society. All of this doesn't exist in Austria. In dealing with the crisis, a society shows how social it is, and this package also shows that we are a country of social peace and high employment. This package also expresses it in all its clarity. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Mrs. Club Chairman Glavischnig, you are right in one point: I have not implemented all the requests made by the last SPÖ part-session. Yes, I agree. We still have a wealth of demands that have not been implemented in this consolidation package. [[Abg. Grosz: Just don't threaten!]] We are on matters of capital taxes for further measures than these, but – and I would also like to mention this in the sense of fairness to the coalition partner – just as we had to move on many points towards a compromise, that was the case on the other hand. This is the case in a coalition. There are revenues that the Wifo only today – I read it in an APA issue, so I took it with me – that is, Margit Schratzenstaller has calculated and where it is said that €9.2 billion is received on the part of the public, consisting mainly of solidarity contributions, real estate growth and all these areas. The heading of group taxation, which you have so little mentioned here, is also an example of how a change will eliminate a possibility that exists so far when you make profits abroad, due to our opportunities to offset domestic losses. That also brings additional means, and that is also a piece of fairness. Of course you're right that we haven't reached the target. That's right. But we have taken a huge step together, and this would not have succeeded if compromiseability had not been demonstrated on both sides of the coalition. And we have all learned this together in this country in the Second Republic and have also lived together, namely: Compromise, enough to argue, to bring something together and not to tear it apart, to put the joint before the parting party. This is what we have lived here and thus a joint decision has been made. And we have also said that this is a serious attitude from us not only to say that one has to deal with one another in compromises, but also to prove that point by point. Calculate the additional revenue of the two consolidation packages, and count on the last time bank charges and other areas: This is not a collection of headings, it is a collection of revenue that we urgently need and that we have planned instead of other measures. In the European Union alone, seven or eight countries have increased the value added tax on food, and there are still other countries discussing it. You can't find all of this in our consolidation package! For this, you will find a tax on the increase of real estate, you will find solidarity charges from service providers, you will find those we last hired with the bank tax, and you will also find revenue from the financial transaction tax with joint effort by 2016. All this shows, the way is right. The goal has not yet been achieved, but an essential stage has been achieved. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] And now, of course, I would like to answer the questions you have asked me accordingly. Questions 1 to 3: Why no wealth taxes, no inheritance taxes? Greens are also actively represented in at least two national governments. You will also not be able to prove that you have long realized all your program points. You won't succeed, and I won't succeed either. So we don't keep up with each other, because that's pointless. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Questions 4 to 6: Financial transaction tax. The basis of calculation is not a mogel pack or a mogel bill, but the basis of the European Commission's calculation. According to the Commission, the total volume of EU 27 imports is €57 billion from 2014 – of course, only assuming that we agree on it. But since nine countries – France, Germany, Italy, Belgium, Finland, Portugal, Spain and Greece – have already spoken out for this, it is quite right to make a prognosis by 2016: We are fighting for it, we want it, so we also want a five-party proposal! Otherwise, it would be impossible to draw up an economic forecast in a preview if one did not assume that it was not. This is the larger amount to be found, just as the basis of a preview. Today, the EU Commission has prepared a preview for Austria – forecasting February 2012: plus 0.7 percent; the autumn forecast, November 2011, was slightly higher. However, we have used the Wifo forecast by 0.4 percent. So you see that, of course, there is uncertainty alone between what we have set as a Wifo forecast, and what has been set as an example of the EU Commission – would be better for us – today. Yes, there are uncertainties in a preview up to 2016. That is to be calculated according to what one has to do with assumptions, objectively justified, together with the experts, and with those who negotiate politically, because of their assessment. I would like to thank all those who share the responsibility for this achievement that we have been able to present this consolidation package: the many officials working there, the many professionals, the many political leaders, but also the Minister of Finance. A warm thank you for that! This has been a solid basis for work. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] On questions 7 to 10: Fee tax Switzerland. I tried to answer that already. Of course, a basis of assessment has been adopted here, which has been achieved on the basis of discussions at official level and also on the basis of fundamental political discussions. You can say you're always putting in something that's already there. But it will not be possible by the year 2016 that you do not also take certain assumptions into account. Question 11: Agreement on capital taxes. No, there are no other agreements. If, in any expenditure-side or revenue-side measure or in the forecast, it turns out that something has changed substantially, then of course this is to be negotiated. Everyone has the positions that are known, and they will certainly also play a role in the negotiations. However, we have assumed that one can change one thing or another in a preview, but we have made the assumptions the way we believe they will happen. Question 12: There are no planned tax measures in the area of families. On questions 13 and 14: values of unity. The main objective of the agricultural asset is to establish the main agricultural assets on the 1st day of the year. January 2014. There will be a government proposal in good time. Question 15: Future provision. As you yourself know, a model of future security has not proved to be a source of crisis. Percentages that appeared in brochures or were mentioned by some at the time in the discussion have not been received from Weitem. And this financial market crisis has also shown that this kind of provision has remained far below the expectations of those who wanted to complete it. I have already mentioned the reduction in the construction premium. The average is 14 € per year. If you want to compare it as far as the solidar is concerned: The head of a large group is charged with additional contributions and taxes at up to €150 000 a year. For top earners, this is a load of up to 9 percent, as measured by income, compared to this construction savings measure, which is an average reduction of 0.06 percent for an average wage taxpayer. So you also have to leave the church in the village and put the numbers correctly opposite. Questions 16 and 17: Pension insurance contributions for particularly high pensions. There was an overall agreement with pensioners on a pension package. The purchasing power is preserved, especially for pensioners of smaller pensions. That is why it was also so important for us to set a reduction – with the senior representatives, and this was a special benefit to the representatives of the senior associations, all of the senior associations – which would allow for a distribution within the inflation rate, whereby the pensioners of smaller pensions could receive a full rate of inflation. This has been taken into account. In principle, all representatives of the elderly associations have agreed to this, and this shows the respectful dealings with the pensioners of our country. Questions 18 to 20: Health reform. All the reform objectives of Article 15a are to be developed in a working group on financing health. They know that the interaction of federal, state and social security must take place. The amounts that we have set up as a volume by 2016, due to a reduction in expenditure, which we employ through better target taxation, through a hospital reform, through further development of the organization, through many proposals made by the Court of Auditors by the Federal Government, countries or also by the Ministry of Health, and the estimate of expenditure reduction is €3.4 billion. This includes €1.3 billion in social security and €2.1 billion in countries. This is still a nice piece of work, which is a hard way, but there too the principle applies: The benefits for patients should not be reduced. Measures, as they are said elsewhere, that older patients simply do not receive certain benefits because of the countries or the There is no way that individuals can no longer afford private money in Austria. On the contrary: The high level of health care and the high standards are to be maintained! With hard work, better coordination and target control, this expenditure reduction is to take place. This is not the end of the path, but it is accompanied by many very concrete measures, with a clearly comprehensible programme and also with a timetable. There is a working group to work on together with the countries and social security, and this is an essential approach to the reform by 2016, because health expenditure is an essential part of both consolidation and prosperity and social security in our country. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Questions 21 to 23: Savings through efficiency increases and elimination of double promotions. There are different models in the direction of an improvement. The first point is certainly transparency. It is only when we know by accelerating the implementation of a transparency database who promotes the same thing, the same person, the same goal of different sides that we are able to eliminate double-tracks in a pyramid, in a classification or in further measures. We are working on this with high pressure, as we are convinced that it is not about giving the most socially vulnerable support or reducing the cultural development in our country of reducing funding, as it happens in many countries. No, it is about eliminating double-tracks and getting closer to the goal of achieving efficiency gains with the first step towards transparency. Questions 24 to 26: Pension measures and effects on the labour market. Of course, you can represent this in some kind of milkmaid bill. This would be in line with the “apples” calculations, but to what extent we took three apples away from education, I did not understand. If you look at the educational budget, you recognize that this is rising significantly; there is nowhere to be a apple. In the opposite part: In the educational budget – for example in the implementation of the New Secondary School, the doubling of the number of full-day schools – there is more expenditure; nothing has been taken away. There are also additional expenditure at universities; nothing has been taken away either. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Now come the study fees!]] But if you see it this way, you could say – and the same is true on the labour market – of course: We want people to work longer actually, so there are fewer jobs because some work longer, and that hurts the boy! – But you can't do that so milkmaidlike. We will have to increase both the actual retirement age and, with employment, investment and economic growth measures, ensure that this high level of employment remains. This is not either or, otherwise we would have to make a decision that the actual retirement age is going down so that more jobs are available. I hope you don't suggest that. So this logic of your question, whether this will harm the young, does not open up to me, since I am convinced that both the measures to increase the actual retirement age are correct and the measures in the area of employment of older workers; of course, €750 million – and the Minister of Social Affairs will be happy to tell you in detail what measures the active labour market administration is taking – without: Apples are removed and placed on top of it – for older workers. In addition, youth coaching, over-company training facilities et cetera, for which we are, by the way, envied in Europe and also by many other countries. We are very well able to give young people a chance, and we do not have to watch that because of the longer work young people pay for it. On the contrary! We have the lowest youth unemployment. Question 27: ÖBB and early retirements. If the company no longer retires at an early stage per 1,000 employees per year for organizational reasons, it will at least become understandable to me, which the Minister of Infrastructure has often represented publicly. This cumulated with €525 million by the year 2016. On question 28: increase in tariffs. Management is operationally responsible for this. On question 29: Tax reform and approval of countries. It is agreed that we should make a tax reform which, in agreement with the countries, is already doing so because, of course, they are also responsible for their savings measures, for their consolidation measures, which we demand from them and which we have also enforced together with them, and which are based on certain revenue. And if you change revenue, it is a question of willingness to talk about it with the partners with whom you have previously agreed the objectives. Question 30: When does the Tax Reform Commission meet? ==References== ==References====External links== On questions 31 and 32: Reform of the administrative jurisdiction, the Federal Office for Foreign Affairs and Asylum, reform of the security authorities – many of the Court's proposals do not only refer to legal changes – we have also worked very much into this. We will also have a very detailed opportunity here in the House to go through these individual areas and to show how many of the proposals we have already made. However, many of the Court's proposals are also related to organisational measures, and they must now, of course, also be developed and implemented in the implementation of all these points. On question 33: Education reform. Extensive expansion of the New Middle School by 2016, doubling the places in all-day school forms, smaller classes. We have not saved at the expense of education, but, on the contrary, we have the principle: Education is a key factor for the future of our society, a crucial factor for economic growth, performance and competition, but also for social opportunities! We have nevertheless put in place additional measures to enable the teaching of Matura or the re-enactment of educational diplomas. On questions 34 and 35: Of course, climate protection should give particular priority to those measures that can be achieved in one's own country. Any additional investment for thermal insulation, for energy efficiency in our own country, is a double euro won for us. Nevertheless, we know that we cannot achieve these particularly ambitious objectives, which we have achieved and which can really be described as particularly ambitious, because they have already reached a high level, by their own actions in their own country alone. Therefore, the proposal made by the social partners has also been taken up in order to ensure a shortfall through possible favourable purchases of certificates. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: This is a disaster! That's a disaster!]] So you already see from this discussion that we have essentially held to what we have often discussed together here. It takes savings and savings because we want this country to become independent, regardless of financial markets, regardless of evaluations to which one must react afterwards. We want to bring this country forward in good time in terms of stability, reliability and social balance, which has become a model in Europe.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-23-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00143_d8e7743	For business treatment: Mrs Dr Glawischnig-Piesczek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-23-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00143_d8e7767	Madam President. Mr Federal Chancellor, I can't force you, I can't tell you how you give your speeches, how you answer questions, but I think we have to discuss this in the presidency. If questions are asked, which are quite clearly to be answered, namely: If there is a negotiation with Switzerland: yes or no?, one can assume, as a parliamentarian, that one also receives an answer, for that there is this debate. [[Congratulation with greens, FPÖ and BZÖ.]] Mr Bundeskanzler, you have not answered comprehensive questions. We will have to re-examine this in the President-in-Office. It is not a matter of answering the whole question at large, but of talking only about the subject areas, which is not a serious parliamentary debate.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-23-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00143_d8e7808	For business treatment: Mr. Klubobmann Dr. Cap. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-23-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00143_d8e7833	Madam President. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, this is an ever-increasing discussion, which is a question of assessment. My impression was that the questions you asked are sufficiently answered. There is also, as you know, another discussion in which there will be several speeches by your group, including ours, of all the political groups, and then we can deepen all of this. I just wanted to tell you that.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-23-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00143_d8e7864	For business treatment: Mr Ing. Hofer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-23-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00143_d8e7889	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! This is, I believe, not a question of assessment, because the question is very clearly formulated. Are there negotiations or not? – Since this question has not been answered now, perhaps later Vice Chancellor Spindelegger can answer these one and also other questions that have not been answered.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-23-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00143_d8e7918	We are now going into the debate on the urgent question. I would draw attention to the fact that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, no speaker may speak for more than 10 minutes, with each club having a total speaking time of 25 minutes. First of all, Mr Magistrate. Kogler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-23-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00143_d8e7945	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! It has always been very exciting when Mr Cap defends the government as a glowing parliamentarian, who just recently reinvented parliamentarianism. So things can still be so objective as to whether you say anything that makes sense – I have to stick to the example now – whether there is negotiations with Switzerland or not. We hear so much and probably also the population when they are watching the debate on television. These Swiss negotiations give me the impression that this is the first Swiss cheese that only consists of holes at all. This is exactly the problem, and this is what you are trying to sell us first as a large part of this package, and secondly, you are still very much involved in the Federal Chancellor's campaign for reform and justice. Both do not take place, ergo of which it is logical that the question has not been answered. Only the SPÖ hurryes and wants to hear something else. But let's get to the point! Mr Bundeskanzler, you have finished your remarks with the fact that, as the Republic of Austria in Europe, we do not feel that bad at all. I totally agree with you. We are dealing with this so-called consolidation package here and now, and I am no longer using this expression because I believe that the opportunities for consolidation have just been rejected with this package. Let us remember November/December 2011 when it was proclaimed that something had to happen! In fact, it would have been the very big chance – in fact, it is still up to the end of the negotiations this spring – to present something that, in particular, breaks off the structural crustage in this country, cuts off the old pots, which, with the old red and black-black proportions – although once interrupted by black and blue – that end this narrow pruning economy. There is still enough to do in this country, and that would really be a huge chance to move forward, that is, innovative and reformable, of course fair and socially balanced and sustainable, so not just to count anything on four years – in addition to what you have put in this so-called package for house numbers – but really sustainable and even with room for future investment. All of this would be possible, but it does not happen! We probably share the findings, the Socialist Group, you, Mr President of the Federal Chancellor, and our group, and I still want to use a word on this – Mr Glawischnig has already mentioned it, because it is important enough to ensure that the ideological debate cannot be fully described by the hysterical right: [[Hello-Rufe at the ÖVP]] Of course, it is true that, in succession, we had several crises that led to a so-called sovereign debt crisis. So we're already seeing this a little different. Some of the causes were the rejections on the financial markets, which have only enabled policy to do this in the world at all. Therefore, first and foremost, there should be rehabilitation to carry out crisis prevention for the future. Secondly, the transition to the economy, to the so-called real economy. - You had to push back. That was also true – whether every single measure was correct, we discussed it already in 2008 and 2009, perhaps even disputed – and that this, no matter what measure, must lead to the budget deficit rising at that time and thus the debt mountain growing, was also clear, only the finding now is that suddenly the state of evil should be there, there one must put everything on zero and that as radical as possible everywhere in Europe at the same time. – Imagine what that means! This must be understood by the ladies and gentlemen of the Conservatives: This can only lead to a more or less politically presumptuous recession. No one can want that. In other words, we have to tackle the history much more innovative and imaginative than cutting back on existing systems and simply pulling money out of the circle. [[Congratulation with Greens and FPÖ.]] It needs much more; not only with us in Austria, I give you the right, but in this respect we are no longer an example. Now it's going on: November/December 2011 – what would have been possible and what is now possible? – First, much more thoughtful and fairer measures also on the revenue side! Mr Bundeskanzler – and so much party policy still has to be now, especially since you have started from the government bank – if you are constantly campaigning, which, according to SPÖ, the strongest party in the National Council and also in the government, is to do everything that is to come, and essentially in this sector is going to implement an ÖVP programme, then you will have to stand up to the fact that you have not enforced yourself, and the question must be raised whether you mean it sufficiently seriously at all. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] What you're serious about is, obviously, putting a lot of money – “time for justice” – insulating with a lot of money, often also with that of the taxpayer, but we're just driving you out now, but you're not ruling. Placate and advertise instead of governing. Do you want to compare yourself with a junior coalition partner now because you have already mentioned this? – We will not let that happen to you! If there is indeed a chance – even with the FPÖ – I believe that we already have a majority in the National Council – that we will do something in the very big assets, with the millions of heirs and foundations, where Austria is a lowest tax country, a tax haven for super-rich, while we are a high-tax country for all those who perform, whether labour income or income, at least earnings, then this discrepancy was corrected at this point. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This is a unique opportunity that you always place, but hide in the back of the Chamber in the negotiations. Or do you want to explain to us that the ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP are so powerful to stand up against these sensible arguments constantly to stop you on the right and just path? Who is this? Tell us! Is Mr Amon there in the first row? I don't know. I don't think so. So how's your government? This can no longer be allowed to happen, even as a population. If you hang it so high, you also have to do something for it! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We already know this shame: the latte to hang so high that you walk loosely down and at the end still grins. – I can't, that's not serious! Unfortunately, the matter is serious enough. We are talking about doing something about capital taxes. It won't be all right, I'll give you a hand. There are also technical difficulties in implementation. But that we had an inheritance tax that the Constitutional Court had tipped – rightly because it was already unfair; but he said: Reformed them!, he didn't say: Let her go!; it was the Gusenbauer-SPÖ, which is responsible for this, in fact, with the ideological persuasion party ÖVP, which then did the whole thing – that is your responsibility. Now there would have been a chance to implement this in a major structural reform, a tax reform, in order to create scope for further action. If these justice measures had been taken over the last ten years, then the increase in revenue would have been of a dimension larger than the whole package you are now predicting for four years. It would be possible to take 2 billion euros a year with more tax justice, which can then be used for something else. Whether it be for the discharge of earnings, or for future investment, this does not matter soon, but it is about this blatant injustice, the elimination of which would at the same time be a major structural reform in the tax system. – This should be highlighted as an example. This is all the more important and important, considering that the impact of this very much tax package is more strained on the lower incomes than on the upper one. I wouldn't have thought you could actually do that. They put themselves here and say: That's not always going to be all right! – Yes, but then stop your posters! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the FPÖ.]] Secondly, however, there is also a lack of willingness to innovate. This is because you regularly kneel from the Federal Government in front of the national leaders. Why do we have no health reform worthy of this name? That's where we're in the black box. This isn't a rehabilitation package, it's a black box, there's really only house numbers! Why have we not finally managed to negotiate only one health insurance fund instead of 20 and more in that country? [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the FPÖ.]] Why is it possible for all health policies that block each other? The health insurance companies, the doctor's board, the hospitalists, the national leaders, all of them do not make health policy, just you, Mr Stöger, because you can't, because you can't, because you're not allowed to leave, because the distribution of competence in this country is such that you can only set up a Commission to set up a Commission, which may be talking to everyone involved, so that you can get rid of your breakfast director status. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The Republic is once again placed on its feet from its head. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign]] [[Abg. Kößl: Now it's enough!]] The Republic needs to experience a state reform that, at last – and this offer we put to you at this point – with a two-thirds majority of the competences are so adjusted that where you really want something – we can then check it – you can also enforce something and do not have to hide yourself constantly from the national leaders. That's what the Republic will do very well, so: Let's go on this renovation! – Our offer stands.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-23-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00143_d8e8039	Mr President, I have made a lot of time available to you. [[I would like to congratulate the Greens for the Abg, which leaves the speaker's desk. May. Kogler.]] The next item is Mr Klubobmann Dr. Cap. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-23-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00143_d8e8078	Mr Kogler, your speeches are always based on the same scheme! [[Abg. Grosz: Yours not? Not yours?]] [[Lively cheerfulness at BZÖ.]] They stand there and are always completely surprised to see that this federal government exists – jessas na! – from two different parties. That's it! Coalition governments are always made up of several parties and different. It is not a secret, we have always said in the run-up to this consolidation package that we would feel it fair, good also for the economy if, for example, there was an asset tax, for example, an inheritance tax. And Mrs Finanzminister said: No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no! – In a coalition government, one sets up, creates consensus points, which they then present. This is what we have done here in this House, and so it will be in the future. I'll tell you something. You have once negotiated with the ÖVP. Perhaps you also dream of coalitions with other parties, maybe once with us, sometime. Coalition governments are always coalition governments. And then Werner Kogler will have to sit down the day after the formation of government and explain the consensus – and can't do it every time as if he had just come to the world. Yes, we live in a federal state. Yes, there are nine federal states. You'll be surprised. And these nine federal states have nine land days, by the way, a total of 448 countrymen. And here I tell you, they claim that they speak with me when politics is made in the country. And if you don't want to, then make yourself and say you have another proposal, a proposal for another political system! Then you come with terms that I have always heard of only the blues and the oranges: Peanut industry, crucibles, pots. I've already gotten quite different than I was sitting in the first row before, I've already had a slight feeling of nausea. [[Abg. Ing. Höbart: Are you afraid everything will break up?]] What does that mean? What do you talk about when you say “structural reforms ”? And I'm saying this prophylactically to my after-saids. [[Abg. Grosz: What about the 22 social insurance institutions?]] If you say that we want the state to withdraw from certain areas with its services, you also have to say what that means! There are once again a few tens of thousands or, depending on the dimension, a few hundred thousand jobs – and of course, benefits. And then you have to make yourself a little unpopular and say what achievements you don't want. And then one or the other in front of the TV, who just got a coffee bowl in his hand, will fall out of his hand, and he will say: That's what the shack's calling for! But I won't choose it anymore. Or: I'm not going to choose that right now. Or: I didn't want to choose it anyway. The third category will usually be: I didn't want to choose it anyway. And here I tell you that this would be a more honest discussion with which we could start something, because here the government is sitting, the government fractions are sitting with an open visor. We put on the table what we imagine, and we can discuss that. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grosz.]] – You can occur in Villach, but not even take it, that’s your problem! – “With an open visor” means to create himself and to present his ideas openly, including as an opposition party. [[Abg. May. Kogler: You can easily talk about “open visor ” if nothing is behind it!]] And: Why is it bad to pay a financial transaction tax if so many countries have set themselves the goal if France wants to introduce it at the same time and if that is our declared political objective? I can't make myself there and say, Jessas na, I'm so depressed anyway, and if I think about it longer, I'm getting even more depressed, we never do! [[Abg. Grosz: If you are so depressed, you might be able to leave the house after 50 years!]] That's not what political will does. The The second question concerns Switzerland: Yeah, you heard that. The negotiations are taking place. [[Abg. Bucher: Nothing we've heard!]] Now we have discussed countless times here: What do we do with the tax evasions? [[New call for tender of the Abg. Grosz.]] . I want to discuss with you, Mr Grosz. If you try to get involved afterwards, we both have more of it! – If we say we want to get to the tax evasioners, then this tax is a possibility. And then I'm glad when at least this money comes in when people withdraw taxes in billions, then leave the country with the money and return without money. This money is missing from the economy, lack of investment. What we are so proud of, and we could all be proud of that, because we are all Austrians here: We are not comparable with other European countries because of their success. [[Abg. Grosz: A carnival session at Villacher Fasching has more entertainment value!]] We manage to have a growth. We can make sure we have a good job. And we can make sure that we have a savings package – I am now deliberately saying “sparket” – which is not in any other European country as it is with us. We can be proud of this: no increase in mass taxes, no increase in health insurance contributions. We even have money for future areas such as education, like universities, like schools, and so on and so on. And this benefits all the diligent Austrians. And what's still positive: There have been great payroll accounts, also in the public service. [[Abg. Kickl: At the latest, the coffee harbor is flying!]] Because always on poor Fritz Neubäuerlos is gone: He stands up for his union and sees that he has a broken payroll. The metallurgists, the GPA and the whole ÖGB, they fought through this. That means people have money in their pocket. Inflation was also paid off to pensioners. This means that pensioners have money in their pocket. That is, we fight for each individual and his social standard. We are fighting the poverty threat of the middle class. We are fighting against the fact that those who are in the lower third are being asked to cash out. I don't want to list it all now, it takes me too much time, but it's a great list we got from Loipersdorf. [[Calls to the Greens.]] – I will invite you to the SPÖ Federal Party Conference, Mr Kogler, then you can give the floor again. – But I am counting on you a little something: the bank levy, the capital increase tax on securities, Stiftung privileges abolished, consolidated taxation tightened, real estate tax, redundancies, solidarity contribution for top earners, the abolition of group tax privileges and, in particular, the debit tax. This is something that falls within the category of revenue and social justice. And then you have looked at the expenditure, which is reasonable and what is also included in the category of justice. And then there was just compromise, okay, you have to admit. This is also known by anyone who is watching here or listening to that, when two parties are together, there are also different opinions. That's going to be discussed! There is no dispute, but there is debate. Why is debated and then sought common consensus? To ensure that Austria continues to have such a status in Europe and that we can continue to be proud of this country and thus avoid something that is knocking on the door in other European countries: Loss of sovereignty, that someone from Brussels will then curtail the sovereignty of budget creation and will monitor in a way what is going on here. Or: the provocation of social unrest, when the IMF suddenly indicates the tone, where I think it often lies next door, and I don't go ahead with what he's doing in Greece, as it happens in part there. And much more. That's where I say, Austria has to see that we continue on this track, and there would be a constructive opposition actually the one that makes itself and says: How can we help you? How can we help you to work in the interests of Austria? [[Interim calls at FPÖ and BZÖ.]] - That's where you see it again: I say “work for Austria” and only reaped displeasure at the opposition! [[Abg. Grosz: No, with the population! They reap resentment at 90 percent of the population!]] You have to look at the faces! You'll be hypernervous at all, that's your problem! [[Abg. Grosz: You don't have any more legitimacy from voters, that's the problem!]] I tell you, it would be important for us to try to draw up common points in the Committee on Budgets now. Perhaps we can work a little more. Why not? We want this to be constructive, because it is really important to us. The last point, and I agree with Mr Kogler, is also our opinion: The budgetary constraints, the government budgets have reasons to be found in the unregulated financial markets. The crisis effects on the real economy, the need to secure banks and ensure that there is growth and economic development, all of which has burdened households, as well as public budgets at all, are facing major challenges. [[Abg. Bookbooker: Now burden them again!]] That is why we should address this question in a reasonable and constructive way. The people in Austria deserved that we do.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-23-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00143_d8e8285	Mr Klubobmann's head is now on the table. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-23-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00143_d8e8306	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! High house! Mrs Glawischnig has called on us to return. . I think this budget and this budget recovery template, which the Federal Government has just sent to review, are doing just that: This is a turnaround in the design of government budgets, a departure from debt making, to consolidation, to balanced households, and thus to the reduction of debt and thus, ultimately, to a positive future design for our children. This is a turnaround from which we will not turn away. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But, ladies and gentlemen, saving is not a self-interest for us. We do it because it is necessary because it has become necessary. I agree with Mr Cap that a good part of this problem that we have to deal with here comes naturally from our actions to deal with the financial and economic crisis of 2008 and 2009. But once again I do not agree with you, Mr Cap, that this is the exclusive cause, but we must acknowledge that states, many states in this world, unfortunately also Austria, have always been in the years before, out of bowing before voters, whatever has lived on the conditions, and unfortunately we now have to pay the token. That is why we now have to take this wrong course and put in place the right measures. This succeeds – respect! Respect! – this Federal Government, variously composed of two parties, which have very different ideas, in a compromise, but which is highly appreciated by the experts outside, is also largely positively commented and will, above all, achieve the objective: [[Abg. Dolinschek: But not of all!]] To clear Austria and put Austria back on healthy legs. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, put on healthy legs, that is, for us on the one hand: sustainable saving through structural reforms – that is, not to cut down on the lawn mower without regard to the importance of individual areas everywhere, but to focus on setting up structural measures and saving where possible through structural changes. Putting your legs on healthy legs also means maximum protection for us in these measures of the economic and work location Austria, so do not carry out any damage to your location. And congratulations to the Federal Government: This has been achieved almost 100 percent with this package! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Bucher: Increase in additional wage costs!]] Putting Austria back on healthy legs does not mean a significant increase in the tax and tax rate already too high for us. Because, I say it again: We don't take too little in Austria – we're spending too much! That is why this package is in the weighting of 76 percent in the reduction of expenditure and with only 24 percent, not even a quarter, in some revenue measures, but all of which will not be harmful to the economic and labour location, our common earnings in this federal government and in this coalition. Ladies and gentlemen! Putting on healthy legs means protection of property for us by the ÖVP as well. And therefore we do not agree to any expropriation measures by means of property or inheritance taxes. Putting on healthy legs also means, in addition to saving, a continuation of offensives, whether this is in science, college billions, education, but also in the environment. Mrs Glawischnig! It's not right what you're saying here. But if we manage to meet the Kyoto commitments more cost-effectively than we had originally assumed, we'll hopefully do it in savings times and not throw the money out to the window. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We do with this package in time, late, but still in time, what is necessary. We're bringing victims for the future. With this package we save taxpayers €1.6 billion by 2016. But one thing we do not do with this package, Mrs Glawischnig: We do not actually fulfil any left-green wishes with this package. We can't do that. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The ÖVP, our vice chancellor Michael Spindelegger announced a reform package in December 2011, with mostly expenditure-side renovation. This package is successful. But we also practice solidarity. The service providers exercise solidarity with the Solidar tax, with the value-added tax on real estate. Solidarity from those who have more or more to earn than the average or other, that is all right. But what we were and are, that's the expropriation of substance. If, then, we tax incomes, whether out of work or just out of wealth, but not a substance, because this is clear expropriation! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We have also achieved success on all the other points we have announced, which our vice-president Michael Spindelegger has announced. There is one out of these inappropriate early retirements at the ÖBB. And I would urgently ask Mr. Mayor Häupl and also the Greens in the city government and in the coalition in Vienna not to be as cynical as yesterday of Mr. Mayor, when he says: No, no, we're not making a pension reform with us, we can't believe that to our people! – You can imagine it to all other Austrians! – We may make a zero increase once, but we do not make the reform! We, Red and Green, continue to send people in retirement in Vienna at 52 years of age! - That's bad! This is inappropriate, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP as well as with the representatives of the FPÖ.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, once again: Saving is not a self-esteem. Savings serve to secure the future. Unfortunately, like some other states, our state has lived through the conditions for many years. That's to be corrected. This package brings Austria back on the right track.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-23-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00143_d8e8408	Mr Klubobmann Strache is next spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-23-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00143_d8e8431	Madam President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In the beginning maybe: In fact, the government should have come from itself to discuss this issue with us today at a meeting. [[Abg. Head: During the review period?]] I am therefore glad that all the opposition parties have closed this special meeting so that we can now finally discuss the content of this savings package after the child-shipping game that took place on the part of the Federal Government. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It is clear to every Austrian today that this Federal Government ultimately played our Triple A in its responsibilities. This Triple A has been played out by your irresponsible policy in recent years! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Since 2006, you have charged more than €55 billion of additional debt to the Austrians, you have missed out on all administrative and structural reforms, so today you are rightly earning a triple U, namely for inability to trade and act unfairly, and to act in vain. That's what you deserve today, and in the end this also recognizes the population. Three terms symbolic of today's government. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] For the most part, this savings package has been made up of headlines. And where there are no headlines and a little bit of a text, it becomes horrendous for the population. There has already been some sort of evidence. Why? Because you don't save yourself. You do not save structurally in the administration, but where? As always under red and black: with the citizen, with the service providers of our state, with those who, in reality, are already burdened by inflation developments, by inflation, and which already have enough problems. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] That's your principle! You have to light that up. There has been a lot of attention today. To the category Sustainability and Strategic Planning, there is basically nothing from the Federal Government. There's a package of intentions that you need to specifically light up. The financial transaction tax in particular is such a case. It is assumed that these revenue will be available in the future. Luckily with the consideration of how we liberals demanded this from the beginning: Yes to the financial transaction tax, but tax revenue is to remain here in Austria. This is a basic condition, otherwise it cannot be booked for the budget. But that's the same thing as if an Austrian were going to a bank so unreasonable today and saying: Give me a credit for a house or an apartment I want to buy, I'll probably make a lotto-sechser next week, and then I'll pay it back. In about this way, your model of financial transaction tax should be assessed in your calculation of the budget. That's unfair! But you're acting in the same way in your package. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The smaller and medium-sized pensioners, who have been robbed over the last ten years, have not been able to adapt the pension price index, which has permanently lost over the last ten years, now have to experience cuts de facto – instead of finally being willing to end the fat luxury pensions and privileges in your areas, namely the National Bank, the old-style pensioners – Mr Cap, you are also saying that you are still in this old arrangement! – where Mr. Karl Blecha and Mr. Khol appear as senior pensioners with a pension of more than €12 000 per month. These are living justice gaps in our system, but not senior representatives! [[In the case of the FPÖ, as well as the BZÖ Members.]] Once you have to show clearly and clearly what there is for luxury pensions in the nearby areas, at the ORF for example, where you are not willing to go somewhere. But that's where the citizens expect it, but that's where you fail again. And I have to say, I understand the displeasure with the pensioners, because there is nothing going on with the pensioners except their blood pressure, because of your policy. The pensioners rightly feel anger and anger at what they have to experience and suffer through you. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And then there are the additional wage costs. They say the economy is not being taxed, the economy is not being taxed! – Four increases in pay extra costs Please, hello! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] We have been hearing from this Federal Government for years now that in times of crisis it is necessary to reduce the additional wage costs in order to support the economy and secure jobs – and you are doing the exact opposite! That's irresponsible! You endanger companies, you risk these decisions but also jobs in the country. This is really a content and object-political nonsense that is being made there. It's dangerous for the location. And there is no need to be a fortune teller to see that many smaller and medium-sized enterprises will of course be in trouble and that, as a result, unemployment can also rise due to these decisions. Health: They stand and speak of €1.4 billion of savings – but you don't say where. There's nothing specific! The group tax that you treat as a simple headline – according to the motto: Wash my fur, but don't wet me! – you have to light up once. These are the super-rich ones, these are the super-rich banks and corporations – some of them the ones that broke us into the crisis – that you spend, instead of finally starting there a RZB, a Raiffeisen Central Bank under Konrad, which in the year of the largest crisis, in 2008, has made 600 million € annual profit, but only 14 million € tax – ridiculous 2.3 percent taxes! [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] Yeah, please, what's right? That's an injustice package, and it's right there. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It is necessary to ensure that abuse is stopped there and that these companies, these banks and insurance companies are no longer able to direct it – thanks to SPÖ and ÖVP. This is what citizens expect, but they do not want you to put up with the masses, just like you do in the construction-saving premium – ultimately in the field of future security. That's where it hits. You can save over 5.2 million Austrians and get little profits anyway – but you can also take these small profits away from them and ultimately reduce them in the field of future security. These are exactly the developments in which people rightly become grotesque and angry. With the subsidies, you are not ready to pull the brake. € 18.5 billion a year in subsidies: There's potential. There we are 6.5 percent of GDP per year, with the average of 3 percent in the European Union. We'd have a huge potential to save. Or also savings in press promotion for those areas where corporations are behind it, who celebrate ordinary, fat annual profits and still receive press promotions. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Or your government rate: up to €100 million a year. These are all concrete savings potentials, Mr Cap, because you ask where the opposition proposals are. We can start right away: We've got 14 ministers today. Let's reduce to ten ministers, let's save four ministries! That would be immediate and concrete. Let's save two of the four State Secretarys! This alone would save € 12 million a year. That would be a concrete proposal. Let's finally raise the gambling monopoly that you've shortened! You have to imagine this: 48 percent have the gambling monopoly levy, and you have jointly reduced it to 30 percent. Yeah, please, no one understands. This is the lowest in all of Europe. Let's raise them, so we don't burden a citizen! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Let us make sure that there are no more forced charges in this country for people – from the ORF to the chambers! That would be a bit concrete. Or do we go here and think to what extent it makes sense to stick to the Kyoto agreement where we would have to pay €700 million each year in punishment if we did not leave! We could need the money for renewable energy in the country. Let's also take a critical look at the CO2 certificates! The Voest today produces the most environmentally friendly steel in the world. There is no more environmentally friendly production technique than those applied to the Voest today – and they have to pay €60 million per year! This threatens the site, which threatens thousands of jobs in Austria! The Voest is now in the process of outsourcing production sites and jobs. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Yes, you can't act so selfishly that you don't realize in these areas that there's a lot going wrong! Or another point: Structural and administrative reform. Let's get rid of the county captains! School administration – yes, there I am with Mrs. Minister – at last one level, from me, uniformly. Let's go and get rid of the state and district school councils! Yes, that's reasonable! Something has to happen! Health: finally a federal hospital plan, a financing from a pot. Get down with the number of social security funds! Mr Cap, you're gone – do you even hear my suggestions? These are the proposals that would be necessary, which would finally enable us to ensure justice in the country. But you're not ready to sit there. And that is exactly what is rightly annoying the population. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] And when we look at the load package: 28 billion € makes it up – just by chance, that's probably exactly the amount for the EFSF rescue and forced expropriation shield, which you gave us for Greece, and some experts say what I said from the outset: Greece has long argued, Portugal too. This is only more an artificial delay, and it is assumed that these liabilities will eventually become striking. Apparently, the Austrians are now going to bear these burdens so that they will have to assume liability for the EU banks and for the Pleite States afterwards. There you have to be honest. Many experts say that from the beginning these countries should not have been included in the euro zone, they should have been expelled at the latest at the beginning of the crisis. And many experts say: Now the damage will be potent, but we will not pass the excretion, from summer it will probably get too hot. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] These are all things that you – dishonestly – do not tell people, such as that you are planning to run through the ESM until summer, the European Stability Mechanism, which is a Sadomaso Treaty, where we are to lose all the rights of decision. The aim is that the ESM Board of Governors should in future have the opportunity to raise this rescue shield to up to €2,000 billion – without the decision of the national Parliament. This is a sale and a forced expropriation of Austria. We need direct democracy in this country that you refuse!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-23-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00143_d8e8587	Mr Klubobmann Bucher came next. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-23-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00143_d8e8608	Thank you for the applause! [[as representatives of the FPÖ continue to give congratulations for the abg which has already returned to its seat. Street@item incidence access is by owner only]] [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[call to the FPÖ.]] Mr. Head, I don't know if you noticed it, but I return it to your consciousness: You said twice – at the beginning and at the end of your speech – the people in Austria and we all had lived on our conditions. [[Abg. Head: politics, states!]] - No! Mr. Kopf, do you know what people at home think of television when they hear something like that from your mouth? [[Abg. Head: Don't lie!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] The people in Austria have less and less money in their pockets, and you – red and black – decide at this time, before an economic crisis, a new scrapping package. This is a joke, Mr President, to those people who have less and less money to live. [[OBJECTIVES]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Header]] Be more conscientious in your choice of words, because people have not lived over their circumstances, but they have been running a policy of standstill for five years now, after five years, at the height of a scrapping package that is looking for the same. [[Abg. Head: An insanity!]] [[Call the ÖVP: Listen to me!]] Because what is present – we do not have the entire legislative work yet – is the final capitulation of red and black to govern this country, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! That's the final capitulation! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] This is also to be written in the main book, which in this country always write and dream, there is only one coalition variant, and that is red and black. Wherever red and black lead us, ladies and gentlemen, we see this right now, at the latest, where performance providers and the middle class have to stand for what this Federal Government has broken and disfellowshipped in recent years. [[Interlocutory call to the ÖVP]] [[BZÖ's condolences.]] This package is a mindless buffer. You have received the confirmation for this brush from the rating agencies. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Moody’s has also clearly priced what you are selling as a package and issued a negative outlook on our credit quality. [[New calls to the ÖVP.]] This is the examination, which has been the evaluation and evaluation of the credit rating agencies and many experts. Ladies and gentlemen! This package will make the lives of Austrians even more expensive in the future. This is the result of your scrapping package. I am waiting for you to explain it to the workers who will in future explain to the workers that the rents will increase, ladies and gentlemen of social democracy. I expect you to explain this to people! If you tax the real estate, then the effect will be on the rents. Of course, an increase in the basic tax will also have an impact on rents. You should finally internalize the calculation: All the fixed costs that you increase from the Federal Government ultimately end up with the final consumer, on the bill of citizens! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] That's reality, but you don't understand anything about economics, that's the basic evil in our country. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] The heating costs are rising. Fuel prices are rising. Look at it. Once at the taps the prices, my dear. Ladies and gentlemen – and do not pretend you have nothing to do with it! [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] You raised the mineral oil tax a year ago. Red and black are solely responsible for the fact that people in our country cannot afford to heat or tank! [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Gaßner]] [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Of course, you are also responsible for inflation, because indeed all these burdens, the You are now just about to decide to catapult inflation upwards. I am very excited about how you will explain this to people in our country, and I am very excited about it, because you are primarily – and this is the basic failure of your thinking – the performance-oriented and performance-ready people in our country. They're kicking the middle class. First, you have scraped the families, taken away the money from them, then the caregivers, and now the middle class is in line. That's your policy, my dear. Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP! That is the downfall of our economic location, that is the reality. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] If you talk about it today – but of course! [[Abg. Head: Which country are you talking about?]] They always act as the saviors of the economy, the saviors of the middle class, the saviors of the economic location Austria. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, if you increase social security contributions as planned now, then this is an increase in additional wage costs. We already have the highest additional wage costs within the European Union. [[Call the ÖVP:And the highest employment!]] Tell people what it is, but don't always lie to the citizens – or you don't understand what the Federal Government is planning here, Mr. Kopf! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The only positive approach I find to reform is the reduction of the National Council, but it goes too far to us. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] That is the only thing that is in there in some way a reform, but that goes too little. We want to halve the National Council, abolish the Federal Council, also take the Federal Presidents with you immediately, a halve of the Landtagsdelegates – the Land Days and also the Land Governments! [[OBJECTIVES]] [[Abg. Head: (in the air lines drawn from top to bottom and from left to right) So or so?]] [[Subsequent calls to the ÖVP.]] But what you are holding there is a pure mogel pack that distracts from your own weaknesses and your lack of willingness to reform this country. The package is built on fears and hopes. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Nothing of what is actually to be done is in this package. Ladies and gentlemen! We would have been prepared to take an active part in all these proposals, which we have already made, all of these proposals for reform, which have come from the experts who have come from the Court of Auditors, and to implement them with you in the House of Lords. [[Interlocutory call to the ÖVP]] [[Call the ÖVP:Lei-Lei!]] There is a wealth of it, but you're cheating outside, just trying to get over the distance, to somehow survive the National Council election to take place in 2013. [[Call the ÖVP:Lei-Lei!]] That's your concept. You won't succeed. The people will not trust you, ladies and gentlemen, and you will be presented the bill at the next election. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP]] One thing is certain: The BZÖ will not participate in this fund-raising operation. We say: It's already paid enough!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-23-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00143_d8e8895	Mr Spindelegger has now spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-23-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00143_d8e8917	Madam President. My very much appreciated Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! If one follows the debate – now after the first speeches – one must decide between “exclusive headlines, no reform approach at all” and “the greatest scrapping action of all time”. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, so different that is assessed by the opposition, but what we have just experienced was a competition: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl]] Who yells louder: Strache or Bucher? – I think today Bucher won. Congratulations, colleague. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] I would rather discuss the contents and not enter into a volume competition with you. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] What is crucial is what this reform package means for the citizens of this country, where we are setting up structural reforms. And what we've done here together can be seen – you can talk and shout what you want. We have set up measures where the country's major problems lie, when it comes to early pensions, so that the age of arrival can rise. Faith You're telling me: All that I get from feedback – and I suppose the Minister of Social Affairs has the same feedback – shows that many in this country also feel that the system will be different for you in the future. [[Abg. Strache: Only positive likely!]] [[Call BZÖ: People dance on the streets!]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] I also have to say openly: Yes, we must stand by it, because we want to secure the pension system and therefore we need measures to really increase the age of arrival and not just talk about it – and that is what we have achieved. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We have once addressed the major issue of health reform in another way. We have said that we agree with the federal states on a new system, a benchmark system. Expenditure in the health system, which increases each year, may not exceed a certain amount, 3.6%. So far, we have had increases of over 5 percent per year. And the federal states, which are also responsible for the hospitals, will have to ensure it and are forced to carry out a hospital reform. Some have already done it, others have not yet, but we will ensure that these expenditures do not grow beyond a certain amount. I believe that this is a new, right approach, as we also encourage the creative forces in the federal states to present their reform measures and thus to come to a saving not with the citizen, but with a saving in the structure of the health system. I'm sure we'll succeed. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We have also been thinking about the question of a large company owned by the Republic, about the Austrian Federal Railways. This company must continue to be a good company in the future, creating transport, which in this country also creates opportunities for transport infrastructure across the board. In intensive discussions, we agreed that we do not question projects, but that we also review parts of these projects, raise efficiency. This has been achieved in the amount of €900 million, and we have presented an additional €500 million, which is because we are going a different way in the future on the topic of early pensions and federal railways. So a structural reform that can be seen, ladies and gentlemen – and not anything, as Mr Kogler has said. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Kogler.]] We have set up and asked what we can do with the countries and with the communities. A new funding concept was established by the Minister of Finance. We have drawn up guidelines for support, which also clarify the objective of support and clarify the need for everyone to meet this objective, because otherwise they do not deserve the support. And we will now look separately with the federal states at each funding area, consider who will do what in the future, and, if possible, only make one post responsible for funding – a structural reform in this country, which can be seen quite clearly. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Grosz: What about the promotions?]] I can come to the field of administrative reform and public service. There too we said: Yes, we insist that there is a stopover, but at the same time a mobility pact with the public servants, that there will also be the possibility of moving from one place to another in the future. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grosz]] Yes, this is a revolution, and this is a change in the public service, but it is also supported by the Public Service Trade Union. I am glad because we need such measures in order to be able to use the employees we have in the Federal Service more flexiblely. Ladies and gentlemen, these are the structural reforms contained in this package. We also agreed on revenue-based measures. I would also have preferred that we could have done all of this on expenditure-side measures, but we agreed. [[Abg. Booker: Yes, yes: no new taxes!]] [[Further calls to the BZÖ.]] One thing is clear: A financial transaction tax is also fully in line with the People's Party, because we want to point out a clear direction. The direction can only be: less money into the financial economy, more money into the real economy – and this is guaranteed with a financial transaction tax. There you can say what you want, that's a right measure. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] We have thus taken a rehabilitation path that I believe can be seen: to negotiate a package of €27 billion in ten weeks and to bring it into a government template. We'll be on 6. The Council of Ministers will hold a Council meeting on March, which will also decide on the legislative measures and then start a discussion in Parliament. That's exactly the right way! We have chosen one, as I have my very ambitious schedule, where there is also the possibility to discuss the details in the House. And now I come to the House, and I can come back to what was explained to us today by the opposition. I start with what the Greens have put in the room as the first questioner, and I say: Yes, there must be room for ideological debate! And that's where I have to say: I totally disagree with you that the Austrians must have their hands on their property. No, ladies and gentlemen, I'm not in there! Hands away from the property of the Austrians! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It is not justified that those who have saved themselves have to pay the State something for having anything at all. This is a form of expropriation that I do not stand for, and therefore there is no wealth taxes on substance with me! [[New congratulations to the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Strache: The problem is only: Every promise of the ÖVP has been broken up to date!]] Second: I have heard two proposals from Mr Strache for the first time today. [[Abg. Strache: You don't seem to listen to that!]] For the first time a proposal by Klubobmann Strache, that's great! While we presented the savings package two weeks ago, he was not there at all. At the most important time in Austria he was not there at all! This can also be held here. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Where was the new builder? On vacation!]] [[Further calls at BZÖ and FPÖ.]] Now on the two “great” proposals: We must address group taxation. - Oh, that's great! You have just said, Mr Strache, that this concerns the banks and the large insurance companies. To this end: 1.4 million workers in that country work in businesses, i.e. in 14 000 in that country, which benefit from group taxation. I don't want to endanger anyone there in relation to his workplace. I hope you will consider your proposal again. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Strache: I want to support Austrian jobs – unlike you!]] 1.4 million workers, ladies and gentlemen, would be threatened by Mr Strache having an idea once he is back in Austria. Or, the second proposal: We will abolish the district authorities! – Yes, this is the “best” proposal! The authority that works closest to the citizen, where I get my passport, where I get the driver's license, where the citizen's service is credited, you want to abolish it. That's great! [[Abg. Strache: They don't have a democratic legitimacy!]] We have to tell the Austrians that. We do not need such proposals, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We need serious proposals – and not a political clamauk! Stay with your Ashini Wednesday speeches, there you are at home and well lifted up! [[New congratulations to the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Strache: Fasching government, costumed all year round!]] Now to the BZÖ: Mr Bucher, to scream even louder than that, you may have succeeded today, but I do not want to comment on the proposals that you are throwing into the room again and again. I would like to sum up: We've prepared a ten-week recovery package. Now is the time to pour the details in law form. We have chosen a timetable to ensure speedy work. We will achieve this by the beginning of March. Then you have the opportunity to discuss the details. I'm not euphoric, because one thing is clear: To ask each Austrian victim, that is a huge burden. The Austrians also have to carry these loads with us. [[Abg. Strache: This is really a big burden, you're right – a great burden for the population!]] But our goal is that we deal with this load together, that we put Austria on healthy legs, that we do what is necessary this year 2012 so that there is a zero deficit in 2016 and that we get back to the government debt ratio. For this I advertise: that this objective is borne by the Austrians. And I am convinced that if we now argue that in the constituencies, when we enter this process, we will also receive the consent.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-23-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00143_d8e9215	The next item is the speech by Mr Oellinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-23-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00143_d8e9236	Madam President. Values Members of the Federal Government! It's hard to find a beginning where you don't get very far. It would also be necessary to discuss why we are now even discussing how to consolidate the Federal Budget or to save expenditure as you have proposed. The financial crisis has already fallen as a keyword. The credit rating agencies have also been labeled. But, Mr Bucher, I am sorry, I do not see this as positive as you do. Then: For years the credit rating agencies have given countries such as Iceland the highest credit quality, states such as Ireland gave the highest credit quality, lazy credit papers, which has contributed to the fact that we are now in a situation where we also need to talk about savings, because the credit rating agencies also have such a high credit quality from the Federal Government's point of view as they do not deserve it. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This is a point that we should actually talk about. I would have expected the Federal Government to reveal what happened at European level to the power of the financial markets that are strangled by the states – it is so! – to slow down. It cannot be that we are now in a situation where not only companies are now being speculated, but one state after another is presented and speculated by the financial markets and credit rating agencies on the target. When did you get it? If Austria's on it? What happens at European level to stop it? Nothing happens!, but we are now in the situation of saying: That's right, they have such great power, we can't do anything, so now we have to bind a savings package! Let us now look at the internal structure of the savings package, not the gap between revenue and expenditure, but what I would like to know is: Where are well-earned people, very well-earned people actually burdened by this savings package? I would like to give two examples. A person with 4 000 € gross, that is actually already on the top floor in Austria. That's it! 4 000 € gross: Where is the contribution in the context of the savings package? – There is no one! A person like you and me, we all in here, with 8 000 € gross – you know, that does 4000 € and still a little net –: Where is the contribution to the savings package? The increase in the maximum contribution base meets us monthly at about €20. Is that our contribution? Is that an appropriate contribution? Is this really an appropriate contribution from the highest and highest earners in this country? And you can calculate who, if we pay so little, pays the main charge. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Who pays the main charge? – This is the lower third with the low income! Because it's not us, and it's not with the $4,000. And the €20 000, yes, they are now paying a fixed-term solidarity. Be given to them! But let us take a special point here – the questions about this have unfortunately not been answered by the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany – namely the area of pensions. I already know that in the pension area, too, pensioners are willing to make a contribution if it is necessary. I already know that the pensioners, in order to keep them at the bar, have been promised by the Federal Government that there is also a solidarity contribution from the special pensions, of which there are with the highest pensions. There are two questions, Mr Bundeskanzler, in the urgent question, namely question 16 and question 17. I'd like to read it to you again. You didn't answer her! With no note you have made it clear here that this Federal Government does not in any way intend to remove a legally defined solidarity contribution from those persons who register special or maximum pensions. I am now telling you a lot about these special and highest pensions. [[Abg. Rädler: The Lord Pilz!]] I'll tell you something about this, Mr. Cot. [[Abg. Rädler: He's not here at all!]] – I don’t blame anyone that he or she is paying a maximum board or a political board or a national bank board. I blame you and us for not taking any measures to make such a contribution. You don't do that, and that's disgusting! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I don't blame anyone for falling into the policy board system, but if a person with a high political board says: I have already paid so much and so long, I have made my contribution!, then unfortunately I have to object. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, you already know that you will receive a political pension if you have paid in the eighties and nineties pension contributions of 5, 6, 7 percent or 10 percent. We paid 22.8 percent in the ASVG. You already know that after four years a politician's pension for members of the government will be due at 50 percent of the reference, for Members after ten years – i.e. a worse scheme for Members, but at least a comparatively very favourable one with regard to all normal pensioners who have to work 45 years in order to receive a pension of € 1,000 or € 2 000. And as a Member of Parliament, after ten years – after ten years! – a gross pension of €4,000. You already know that it would be justified to demand a contribution from these persons. Yeah, why isn't he? [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter: You pay 25 percent pension contribution!]] Mrs Fekter, please, now come and start again. You didn't take care at all. You shouldn't have said that! Never do that again, Mrs Fekter! Watch out for at least before calling in! Really! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] If you look into your documents, Mrs. Fekter, in the relevant law, then you will see that government members pay the 25 percent you are now putting into the issue for their old politician's pension only since 2000. Previously, it was much lower contributions. And the previous years are the years for which they then get a pension. [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter: But still it is true!]] If you have been a politician for 10 or 20 years in that country – you have had to work 4 or 10 years in 1997 depending on whether you were a member of the government or in Parliament – if you have been active for 20 years You spend at least 10 years, for which you have almost no pension contributions, while all normal pensioners have been paying 22.8 percent for 30 years. [[Congratulation with the Greens]] That's how it looks! What we expect from you is a contribution from those. It can't be that you're getting unpunished until all the future, until, as it were, the last political pensioner has died – and some have a very long life – a relatively cheap pension, which is not the only pension, but an additional pension to another one or two pensions. It can't be! That's what all people say. Ask anyone outside if it is justified that 95 percent of them here do not benefit at all or are not affected by this system at all, but have to hold their heads for the 5 percent that continue to defend their system. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] That's unfair! It is unfair that it would be – not only as far as politicians are concerned, but also as regards the other special pension systems for which you also promised – the minimum of justice, what you should do and require, so that anyone of the normal pensioners, of which 700, 800, 900, 1 500 € gross, says: Yes, I am also willing to make my contribution! – Where is the contribution from these groups? There's no such thing as him! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] They are going here and are now debated about the pension funds or about the grant for private future provision. If you had designed the system differently, the state would not have to shoot at all! They all know as well as I do that those institutions that carry out private future provision – and this also applies to the building savings banks – require immense administrative fees. Yes, you can reduce it there! Take it away from those who have enough – but not necessarily those who are asked by you to check out because it is obviously too difficult to ask the rich to be responsible!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-23-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00143_d8e9367	Next, Mr Katzian. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-23-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00143_d8e9388	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! I was actually preparing a very factual speech today, but, Mr. Head – he just left the hall – ah no, he's here anyway! – I cannot let that happen to you: the re-interpretation of the crisis that you have repeatedly made here today, meaning that we or the people in Austria had lived over their conditions. [[Abg. Head, behind the ÖVP seat rows, draws attention to himself with a hand movement]] They know very well that Austria has been on the right track like other European countries, and then the economic crisis and then the financial market crisis is on the way. Come on. We took a lot of money into our hands at the time to save banks. At the time, we took a lot of money into our hands for business packages and labour market packages. And because we've done that, there's now – yes! – the need for consolidation. But let's not catch the cap. It is not about re-interpreting the crisis and claiming that people had lived over their conditions. This is certainly not the case! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Yeah, I'm calling for consolidation, for two reasons. On the one hand, because we need the necessary flexibility in state finances, the scope for political action, especially if we are driving towards economically difficult times, in order to have the opportunity to invest in economic or labour market packages again. But I am also in favour of consolidation because I do not want to have a troika or anyone else to appear there at some point and explain to us, members of the National Council and the population, what we have to do. I would like to keep the capacity to act in Austria here in this House! And quite honestly, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition: I'd rather deal with you in terms of content, subject matter, than with any people in a troika or somewhere else. That's the second reason. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] What is present – yes! – is a political compromise. No question at all. This is what everyone knows about the negotiations in which there are stakeholders with different interests or different priorities. However, this package, which is available, is different from in other European countries. And we don't need to strap Greece or Portugal at all. If you look at how in Spain, for example, one-sided intervention is made into the wages of private sector employees, how redundancies and dismissals are facilitated, how collective agreements negotiated between the social partners are eliminated or how in Italy mass taxes are increased and reductions – reductions! – in the field of public services and pensions, then, I believe, you will have to admit that the package we have here looks quite different, also from the social design. ==References== In the context of a large event of the trade unions and the Chamber of Labour, Januarye defines our cornerstones for such consolidation. Growth and employment must not be at risk. We also need offensive measures, not just savings, no privatisations, no destruction of the social state. These are the criteria by which we can also evaluate this package today and the measures that are being put in place here. Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! The economists in the Chamber of Workers, but also the Wifo, have calculated that the economic growth as a whole is reduced by the measures proposed here, on average 0.15 percent per year. I think that's a viable value, especially in comparison to what actually happened on the tapet. In the area there was a purely expenditure-side measure. And we can now again discuss whether the ratio between revenue and expenditure, Mr Kopf, 24 : 76 or otherwise like it is. Mrs Schratzenstaller is suspicious. She is Wifo's budget expert and said today: The ratio between revenue and expenditure is 53 per cent on the part of 47 per cent on the part of the expenditure decided in Loipersdorf, 65 per cent on the part of the current stabilisation package on the part of 35 per cent on the part of the revenue side; therefore, a total of 41 per cent on the part of the revenue side is 59 per cent on the part of the expenditure. I know the location's the point of view. Everyone can turn and represent their numbers as well as they fit into the concept, but I think, ins- and – and this is the decisive – there has been a balanced outcome. Nevertheless, we would have wished – and I say so very openly – that more is being done, especially in the area of the taxation of assets, of large inheritances, than is actually at the table. And that's why I'm saying, The time is ripe. In the press hour, the Minister of Finance announced that there should be a reform in the field of taxation. I say that a tax-structural reform is needed now, and this tax-structural reform must relieve labour, relieve workers, need wealth and inheritance tax for large assets and large inheritances, and also need environmental elements. This is a need for future tax structural reform.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-23-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00143_d8e9475	Mr Dr. Stummvoll is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-23-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00143_d8e9507	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! I have a sentence to say to my dear colleague Wolfgang Katzian: You've started your speech by saying you've prepared a very factual speech, but now you have to say something to the clubman's head. [[Abg. Head: So not objective!]] That was obviously not very factual what you said to the Clubobmann head, purely semantic. [[Call at BZÖ:It doesn't always have to be objective!]] And so it was, because the government debt ratio, dear Wolfgang, was 60 percent of GDP before the crisis, and it is now 74 percent. That is, 80 percent of the debt we had before the crisis, and only 20 percent of the debt has become more. – So, dear Wolfgang Katzian, with all appreciation, I had to say that now, because that was an 11 meter set up. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Head: Besides, I just quoted Voves!]] Ladies and gentlemen! If one has pursued the debate of this special meeting, which the opposition, the Greens have called for, then one must say honestly: New, surprising thing didn't happen. No wonder, because in every parliament in the world, ladies and gentlemen, the opposition does not leave a good hair on government policy, knows everything better, criticizes everything without making constructive proposals. That is what I understand in every Parliament in the world, Mr Kickl. [[Abg. Kickl:! What does that mean?]] Nevertheless, I am very grateful to the opposition for this special meeting – including the ORF, that it transfers directly – because it gives the opportunity to work out the difference between government responsibility on the one hand and opposition spectacle on the other. [[Abg. Kickl: It's annoying for parliamentarianism!]] When I say “spectacle”, ladies and gentlemen, I do not mean that one cannot practice criticism at individual points of the package. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: At least 20 gu- to suggest!]] No question, I don't even take care of it. I would also have liked to have a package consisting only of expenditure-side measures. I also do not take the view that Mr Bundeskanzler meant that he would have preferred to have it, even if the tax on property would have been included. [[Abg. Strache: We haven't heard from you about the luxury pensions!]] But if statements are made here like those – unfortunately, she is not here now – by Mrs Glawischnig, who convened the special meeting, which said on Monday in a large interview with the “standard”, quite globally, this “sparing package is social and ecologically stupid”, then I call the arrogance of the minority. The whole package is “social and ecologically stupid”, she said. This is, for me, an arrogance of the minority, ladies and gentlemen, and no material criticism. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] And, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Vice-Kanzler has pointed this out – Mr Klubobmann Strache, because you look at me like this, and Mr Klubobmann of the BZÖ – as far as the volume is concerned, it is an old known fact: The weaker the arguments, the louder the sound. [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: Oh, that's it?]] That's not a question at all. [[Abg. Strache: Don't you have any more arguments?]] But once again, I am going beyond that because I do accept, Mr. Strache: Of course, you can criticize individual points. But look what we do as a government group, as government, as the majority, is to say: First: The main political responsibility in democracy is always the majority. Secondly, We act according to best knowledge and conscience. Thirdly, If we are convinced that measures are necessary for the future of the country, then we will meet them, even though – fourth – that is very often not pleasant. It is not pleasant to say, dear pensioners or dear future pensioners, we must raise the actual retirement age. That's not very sympathetic. [[Abg. Strache: But the luxury privilege pensions that protect you!]] It is not very sympathetic to say that we close tax gaps. Nevertheless, we say it because we bear responsibility for the future of the country. We are doing what is necessary for the country, ladies and gentlemen – in contrast to the opposition. Mr Strache, ladies and gentlemen, also from the BZÖ and the Greens. We save 26.5 billion by 2016, and last week I was charged by the Ministry of Finance: What are the applications for opposition from the last months to 2016? The sum was: 14.7 billion. [[Abg. Bitch: Mamma mia!]] We save 26 billion, you want to spend 14 billion more! This is the difference between government responsibility and opposition policy, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] [[Call to the FPÖ:The parliamentarians had this calculated in the Ministry of Finance?- Oh, my God!]] [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: Is this usual, Mrs. Finanzminister?]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: If we want to figure something out, nothing is expected!]] [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: Mrs Finanzminister, listen to me!]] [[Abg. Strache: Calculation order!]] Another thing: They have criticized the fact that, in part, only headlines are inside. I don't see it in any way. I see this as a way of putting the latte very high. We put the latte very high! Of course we don't say: Now we have a savings package and now we put our hands in the lap!, but we say: Okay, now we're going to the financial transaction tax! - That's not a running thing yet. There's still a lot of effort inside, a big challenge. That's how we put the latte! With Switzerland as well, no question at all, the latte is high. We have to go further, we have to do a lot of things there. In health care the same way: With the 1.4 billion, we don't put our hands in the lap. We must now negotiate with the countries and social security: How can we apply the 1.4 billion through reforms? That means that these are not headlines, but that is proof that the government and the government parties are laying the bar very high, Mr. Strache. We're really putting the latte up! But if I've followed your remarks, I have to say: Honestly, you didn't place the latte very high. [[Abg. Strache: Then you couldn't follow me!]] But you may still have been under the influence of yesterday's Ashini Wednesday speech. That's why I have a human understanding.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-23-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00143_d8e9795	Next, Mr. Ing. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-23-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00143_d8e9817	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Mr President, it was a nice attempt, but unfortunately it was one of your weaker speeches, because it is already clear that the ÖVP has been ruling for almost 30 years and is not entirely innocent of the difficult situation that we have now. And too much to deal with the volume of a speaker, I don't think it's really good. [[President Neugebauer shall take over the chairmanship.]] In addition, Mr Spindelegger has also tried, in his speech, to become somewhat louder, which was something amusing, because he is not really authentic as a fighter speaker. You can't get louder and artificially excited – and then carry a somnolent ant. [[Abg. Strache: If you don't have emotions!]] That's not quite the same, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Wöginger: But is it already relevant to the content?]] Ladies and gentlemen! The load package was disappointing in every respect. For the voters of the ÖVP, because it has been promised: Read my lips: no higher taxes! – It is often difficult to read lips when a politician is all too bitten. The SPÖ is disappointed, or the SPÖ voters are disappointed because the seniors are saved € 7 billion because it does not come to the promised asset tax – thank God, from my point of view. [[Abg. Wöger: Seven? Where did you get these?]] And the measures that have been proposed cannot be implemented in many respects, in the pension area – corridor pension – is unconstitutional. I am surprised that parties, which have a large staff, offer many officials proposals that are ultimately unconstitutional. Or: The agreement with Switzerland – which has already been discussed today – will obviously be difficult to implement. Or: Speculation tax – far away, ladies and gentlemen! And if it is actually implemented at EU level, then the money should not flow into our state fund, but into the European Union's cash registers. That is why we stress once again that this package, ladies and gentlemen – because you say, “I can’t believe!” – Mr Vice-Chancellor behind me: [[Vice Chancellor Dr. Spindelegger: incredible!]] You mentioned earlier, it will go into the structures. This is not the case from our point of view. A real structural reform does not circumscribe the citizens – unlike presented by Josef Cap. Let me give you an example: In the health sector, we have now defined the possible cost of an acute bed with 600 € per day. We have too many cots, with more than 50,000, and too few nursing places. A care bed costs 100 € per day. If you come to another organization – more nursing places and less acute beds – no one is hurt. It helps the caregivers and it helps the state. We pay 5 million € per day for this bad organization, ladies and gentlemen – per day! – because people in need of care are in acute beds. And that is what I call structural measures that we need to implement. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Instead, ladies and gentlemen, we are now starting to take part in the construction-saving premium, in the provision of the future. You, Mr Bundeskanzler, meant that it was only a few euros a year. But in those cases I know where minimum pensioners for the grandchild conclude a building savings contract, so that the child has a secure financial basis after schooling, these few euros really hurt, Mr. Bundeskanzler! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I don't understand that you're ready to intervene in almost 7 million contracts – if I look at the construction savings contracts and the provisions for the future – and at the same time say: Well, I am not willing to intervene in existing contracts at the National Bank's special pensions! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I would also like to mention the numbers so that the listeners also know how much money it is: The reserves for pensions at the National Bank amount to €2.1 billion. €2.1 billion for a handful of pensioners! For the directors of the National Bank alone, a pension of €4 million is paid annually, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. I know what you're thinking. That's the red-black privilege bacon!]] 4 million € per year! And that's this unfair attitude: All employees who joined this National Bank before 1993 can, after 35 years of service – and already with the reaching of 55. Year of life – retire. [[Abg. Graf: That's incredible!]] I ask you here again, ladies and gentlemen, that you, together with us, provide the necessary majority of votes to ensure that these luxury and special pensions belong to the past. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Don't forget, Federal Chancellor, Mr Vice-Chancellor: These reserves, which are necessary for a handful of pensioners, cost every household in Austria 400 €. [[Abg. I know what you're thinking.]] 400 € paid every household in Austria only to ensure these luxury pensions at the National Bank. That's incredible. And then go here and cut the premium on the construction savings contract. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That is why we are also making two requests. The first request concerns the promotion of the future: [[Quoted print version removed]] And the same, a similar request, for the construction savings: Motion for a resolution by Mr Hofer, colleagues, on the maintenance of the state savings premium at present The National Council wants to decide: "The Federal Government, and in particular the Federal Minister for Finance, are invited to arrange for the necessary building premium to remain at its level." [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, in order to see how serious this is and how important this issue is to us, we will call for a name-named vote and we will also announce in the constituencies, which mandates from this House have expressed in favour of a reduction in the building savings premium and which mandates are in favour of maintaining this important form of future provision in Austria. Then: Don't forget that for many people the construction savings contract is also a form of prevention, so that you don't sleep in poverty. With this, I can take care of my apartment and maybe buy my apartment in the property at some point, so that I don't have to pay rent any more at age. And here you are very much involved in these existing treaties – and we must fight this with all our means. Ladies and gentlemen, at the end of the day: My impression is that when I talk to many people – who are also familiar with political commitment on a daily basis – the Austrians are very willing to take part in savings measures, they are also willing to take painstaking cuts, because they all want to identify themselves with this state, with our home country, and to do everything they can to ensure that this home country is on healthy financial legs as well. But what these people don't understand – and it always comes back – is: Why do we, the seniors, the small tradesmen, the workers, and the red-sticks? Why aren't you prepared to really save in the structure, and second, why are these people sending our money to Greece? – I hear that every day and every day. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Finally, Mr Vice-Chancellor, Mr Bundeskanzler: Solidarity with Greece is also present in Austria, because many people have already spent their holidays there and also know the Greeks well. But you all know: The money we send to Greece does not benefit the Greeks, but the banks that have made good profits with the debt of Greece – and we have to put it there.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-23-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00143_d8e10013	The two motions for resolutions which have just been tabled are under negotiation. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Rules of Procedure!]] The two applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-23-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00143_d8e10112	Mr Westenthaler. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. - Please. [[Abg. Strache: (on p. May. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution)]] - Please? - You're welcome. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Rules of Procedure!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-23-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00143_d8e10164	Mr President. Mr Delegate Dr. A few minutes ago, almost everyone audible, stupidly claimed that he, stupidly, would have been able to calculate in the Ministry of Finance – I quote – what the opposition's applications would cost. Mrs Fekter, you are here: Is it true that the Ministry of Finance for the ÖVP Party and Dr. Stummvoll calculate what the opposition proposals cost? What is the cost of this action in the Ministry of its part, and how do you explain that individual members of government parties get a special service, while your tax reform commission is a secret body as in the Vatican, where no one opposition politician is asked, which is what these contributions we are bringing in? [[Congratulation with greens, FPÖ and BZÖ.]] But dent the opposition, you can do that!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-23-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00143_d8e10207	You know the provisions of the Rules of Procedure – this was a speech. I think you can get this information, too. They have made no request, and therefore we do not need to continue the debate. I now ask Mr Ing. Westenthaler to the speaker's desk. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-23-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00143_d8e10233	Mr President. Minister! Mr President, perhaps during the current broadcast of television, you can still give the spectators and our Members an address, the telephone number of the Ministry of Finance's service, which makes it known to the public and to the Members, that is to say, orders, executions for citizens and for Members. Would be very interesting to learn that. However, whether this is the task of the Ministry of Finance, I dare to doubt, but perhaps you can still tell us. [[Congratulations with BZÖ, FPÖ and greens.]] [[Abg. Strache: This was close to the citizen for the EIA politicians!]] Mr Vice-Kanzler and Mr ÖVP-Obmann Spindelegger, you have come out here and shown yourself three times in your speech to Mr Strache because he was not there during the last part of the negotiations of the package. And then you showed him that way with your finger. First: Mr Spindelegger, I do not think that if he had been there, you would have attracted him to the negotiations and invited him. And for the second: When you point your finger at someone, at least three point to one, Mr Spindelegger. Consider who was not there during the hot negotiations: According to your chief official, Neugebauer, who was on vacation and left the small officials in the lurch, how 500 to 900 € have been cut down a year and the overtime is reduced to the police. [[Abg. Grosz: Maybe they were cross-country skiing together!]] He wasn't there. So take care of such comments, Mr Vice-Chancellor. To my colleague Cap, who is no longer here now – there he goes; come back here, I want to talk to you a little bit, sit back! –: He has spoken of all the seriousness of these structural reforms, which are in fact nowhere in the package. That's the fact. And not only we, but really well-known experts have calculated that only 15 percent of structural measures can be allocated by the expenditure-side savings measures. The rest is nothing but a simple reduction in performance: a simple reduction in performance for citizens, a reduction in performance as a burden on citizens. And I know why he's turning around like that. Let's call the child by name: Why do you not want to make structural reforms as long as red and black are in power? – Because structural reforms actually mean loss of power and abandonment of power for red and black. And that is why we do not have these structural reforms. That's the truth. [[BZÖ and FPÖ are welcome.]] That is why – and this is so significant – the Moody’s agency had to put the outlook for Austria at a negative level just a few days later – on Friday, the presentation of the package was, on the weekend, examined. Mr. colleague from the government, Mrs. Finanzminister, Mr. Vice-Chanzler, Mr. Bundeskanzler, that was already included, the load package – which is also contained in the text – and then Moody’s comes and gave Austria a negative outlook. Not only the evil opposition, but Moody’s, the international agency, gave Austria a negative outlook, taking into account the load package. According to unconfirmed rumors, Moody’s wanted to give a positive outlook. Then the load package came, then it suddenly became negative – unconfirmed rumors according to. We also understand this because there are no structural reforms in it, and because you have essentially put on the table a collection of non-bindings – non-bindings, insecuritys. The only thing that is safe is the burden on the public once again. And that at a time when the people in this country actually do not know how to finance their daily lives. Colleague Bucher made it: The prize-winner who is now playing in this country is a little incredible! [[Abg. Grosz: 1,60 €!]] Today, we have been thinking at a gas station that has offered the spray for 1,60 €. [[Abg. Straight: 55 percent tax burden!]] 1,60 € – these are in real money 22 S! At the same time, the OMV publishes its success balance with €34 billion in sales and €2.5 billion in profit. At the time, Mr Bundeskanzler, Mrs Finanzminister, Mr Vice-Chanzler, would like to remind a special dividend of the OMV that she is contributing to this savings package, ladies and gentlemen! [[BZÖ and FPÖ are welcome.]] The only thing to do is cash the increases, but then, once it goes down, don't pass it on and also raise the mineral oil tax, I think it's a real scandal. They know that people increasingly have the problem of financing their lives at all. 1 million people on the poverty line, now over 1 million people! – So much, Mr Klubobmann Kopf, to the “We have lived over our circumstances”. I wonder what this million is thinking about what some people think today who live in permanent poverty when they watch television here. Then come here and talk about social justice! Mr Hofer has done this, when he saves construction. – You removed this with a strike from the table, Mr. Bundeskanzler: The construction savings, these are only a few euros that will be folded down there. These are the basis of life for many people who have been created here! Of course – Mrs Glawischnig has said that – the Grandpa is also affected, who opens up a savings book for the Enkerl, but not only, but also – and this goes very deeply into the social democratic electoral layers, quite, very deep – small workers, small employees, who, through their zeal and economy, want to create some time in their lives a property that might be working on it for half a lifetime, save on it: Those are the ones you're taking away half the premium! I think that's actually bad and unacceptable that you're doing it. [[BZÖ and FPÖ are welcome.]] Think about if that's really all right! This has nothing to do with social justice and it also harms the economy as a whole, because the construction and housing financing are at all a cornerstone of the Austrian construction industry and the residential economy. It's gonna be more expensive, I can tell you now. If the new construction performance is reversed by a lack of money, then, of course, property and possibly rents will also become more expensive. But social justice does not take place. The construction saving is shortened: immediately, immediately! But the reduction of government may occur after the next election, if at all. Why Make You're not the same, Mr. Federal Chancellor? – Two ministries, two ministers less, you can implement it immediately. No one can stop you from doing so! Why only after the next election? Why only in one and a half years? - No one understands. The provision for the future will be folded and shortened. But the reduction of the government will only come later. Or: The solidarity levy shall be limited to 2016. But the cuts are not limited in time, they go through, they are fully disassembled! Pensions are immediately reduced – a pension robbery special! – but we don’t hear anything about party and press promotion. Tell us! Go here and tell us how much you are doing in the press promotion, 12,5 million €. Among these are some incredible red or black party leaves that appear under public exclusion, for example, when I think of the “people’s newspaper” or the “KTZ” that does not really exist, but only on the leaf. They should prove themselves on the market and not be fed constantly by the state! This is your job, which you actually would have to save here in the press promotion. To conclude: They increase the additional wage costs, including that immediately! But administrative reform is misrepresentation. A small example of the calculation: The one who earns €14 000 per month – top earner, top earner – will have a total of €327 per year due to your package. A police officer who is dependent on overtime and has earned overtime will have up to €1 400 less per year due to an overtime reduction in the future! The small average official – not the big one, but the small one – pays 900 € per year for this package. And now tell me again, that's socially fair – that's not it! [[BZÖ and FPÖ are welcome.]] This has a social flaw! It is not for nothing that I see here, when we list these examples, some serious faces in social democracy. [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter: Because they are wrong!]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] I hope that will remain so, and you will think about the nonsense that is to be decided here, once again.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-23-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00143_d8e10372	Next speaker: Mrs. Dr. Lichtenecker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-23-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00143_d8e10393	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Mrs Fekter, is there this special service for members of the ÖVP Parliamentary Club, as my colleague Kogler mentioned earlier? And if so: What does that cost in concrete terms? How many hours of staff are used for this? – I call on you to comment on this today. [[Abg. Dr. Stummvoll: Make a request for this!]] [[Abg. Dr. Stummvoll: Use your enquiry right!]] Mr. Federal Chancellor Faymann, you are always talking about social justice – and social justice, of course, means investment in education, research, universities and climate protection, because this, of course, ensures jobs. This ensures good economic development, income and, of course, prosperity. To be sure, the package you have now presented is very, very inadequate, as far as these investments are concerned. It's missing over long distances. The Financial Times Germany rightly last week: ‘Europe is saving itself into recession’, with the corresponding major problems, also for the future revenue structure of the public budgets. It is therefore, of course, necessary to counter this. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Of course, it is also particularly difficult for the 240 000 individual companies in Austria, many of whom have to fight with low incomes, who create and secure their own jobs with great commitment, with great initiative. If, in turn, you have to pay higher pension contributions, as is now planned, that is, I tell you, the wrong way in this area! Of course, a counter-tax is required, and yes, these are investments in education, research and universities. There are always numbers that are not comprehensible at all in this way that these funds should actually come for the universities. Many rectors of the universities also stress that this ensures the status quo maximum that it now ensures further work, but does not allow for any dynamic development at all – let alone the budget path, spending 2% of the gross domestic product on tertiary education, in any way comes closer! On the contrary, here we move far away, precisely with the policy you are making in this area, and that is very weak. Yes, research: Research is an important part to be fit for the future. We have just experienced a few days ago that Austria has slid down in a European innovation ranking, slid down for a place. What you have written in your government agreement – to become an innovation leader, innovation leader, fit for the future – is far away. That's no wonder we've got a standstill at the research budgets. This has a negative effect, because countries that move into the future and are at the forefront – like Germany – are investing more in research and science in times like this, in times of crisis. Mr. Federal Chancellor Faymann, you have not answered several questions at the moment, but in particular not a question. That's what it was about: Will there be cuts in investment in climate change and environmental protection in the next few years? – That has not been answered. As we come to our attention, it will be about savings of more than €200 million in environmental and climate protection. I'll tell you: That's the wrong way! Austria has to go another way here, namely another way to reduce environmentally harmful subsidies. The environmental roof association has calculated that €4.3 to 5.4 billion of savings potential is possible here, and the short- to medium-term. That would be the right way not only to deal with the economic, financial crisis, but, of course, the climate crisis that threatens to endure throughout the turbulence. One must not forget – on the contrary, that is very, very important –: Investment in climate protection, an environmental-social orientation of the tax system, a reduction in labour costs will protect the climate, but in particular jobs, create green jobs here in Austria. Ladies and gentlemen of the government! I ask you to: Link a package for the future with investments in the future, with courageous reforms, in order to ensure the way for Austria, for the people of Austria, for the future in the next few years!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-23-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00143_d8e10449	Next speaker: Mrs Csörgits. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-23-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00143_d8e10470	Mr President. My very much appreciated members of the Federal Government! What is really unexplained to me during today's debate is the measures that the Federal Government will take in connection with the labour market. Our Federal Government is very much concerned that unemployment is being pushed back so that measures are put in place in good time so that Austria does not have a rise in unemployment. We can see the good successes together in the past, including the figures relating to very low unemployment. This programme – which distinguishes the programme from many other measures in other countries – is also highly ambitious in relation to the labour market. I'd like to address some of them. Under the Labour Market Plan, € 750 million will be made available for additional measures by 2016. These funds will put in place actions and measures to enable more than 32,000 people to reorient themselves professionally. In addition, 45 000 people will be integrated more quickly into the labour market through targeted advice and assistance. These are important, necessary measures, because we know, I believe, that combating unemployment is a very, very important guarantee in relation to the stabilisation of a country, not only financially, but above all socially. Measures will be taken to address older workers at the same time. We all know that people continue to retire much too early. But this requires that we have to make sure that we take care of those people who simply don't get a job anymore because of health conditions. On the other hand, however, it also requires that measures be taken to prevent “old workers” from being needed in the economy – under quotations – on the labour market. Here again, measures are set out in this consolidation package. On the one hand, it will be necessary that, for example, the “fit2work” action, which was launched last year and that there are very good approaches, continue to ensure that re-establishment measures, especially for older people, take an important step against people moving early into the pension. On the other hand, it is also necessary for society as a whole to think about it and that the appreciation for older workers here in Austria must also be strengthened in the sense of people. This is necessary, that is important, because we all want older people to be able to stay healthy for longer in the workplace, in employment. I am already on the very important subject of pensions, and I am already somewhat irritated that Mr Westenthaler meant here, there is a robbery of pensions. I can remind myself that the only robbery of pensions in this country has been carried out under a blue Social Minister. [[Inter-calls at the BZÖ.]] If there had not been the very active measures of the workers' organisations at the time, this pension robbery would have looked even worse. [[Abg. Scheibner: 6 percent increase...!]] [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. Tamandl.]] Let me come back to the measures relating to the labour market offensive. It is also very important for me here that I should like to remind you that this consolidation and stabilisation package also provides for measures to be taken for those people who have a low unemployment rate and are in training to receive a higher unemployment benefit. [[Abg. Grosz: Who betrayed us? Social Democrats!]] On the other hand, measures are being taken to ensure that those employers who cancel workers from their businesses simply make a contribution here. Ladies and gentlemen! I think Austria is well in Europe. I said we are in the happy situation that we have a very low unemployment rate. This means, however, to the Federal Government, and certainly to the government parties, that this does not mean that we are leaning back and saying, okay, we can rest on our laurels, but that means taking measures to ensure that in the coming years, too, as many people as possible, we simply save the evil fate of unemployment. This package of stabilisation, I believe, is a good contribution to this. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-23-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00143_d8e10552	Next speaker: Mrs Tamandl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-23-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00143_d8e10573	Mr President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Appreciate members of the government! Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by quoting the Minister for Finance, who says: We do not have too few revenue, but we spend too much. . I think it is precisely from this point of view that we need to see the budget consolidation package that has been tied here. This is a package in which expenditure cuts outweigh the revenue that is to come. I think that's exactly the right way. If Mr Bundeskanzler and also some colleagues from our government partner environment have said today that they would have wanted property taxes, then I can only say: We would have liked a lot too! For example, we would like to see the family relief in this country as soon as possible, as proposed by Mrs Finanzminister. The families do very, very much, not just for their children, but even for the generations. The families are the germ cell in our society, and they belong promoted! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Because such a consolidation package is a compromise package and because, of course, the proposals made by Mrs Finanzminister for family relief have immediately come to the Njet of SPÖ, I can only say: We can only give your claims for property taxes, your claims for inheritance tax and gift tax a clear no! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Even if you still preach benefits so often here: We give the families freedom of choice! Whether they want to care for their children themselves, whether they want to give their children care, we want to achieve freedom of choice here. We also say that we do not want a state advance! Because today the opposition has given so much to the savings package, I would like to stress one thing: We have not taken any site-damaging measures. We didn't raise mass taxes. That could have threatened anything, but we prevented that. And: We've closed tax gaps. You too have been asked to do so again and again. Group taxation: A tax gap was closed here. Pre-tax deduction for real estate: A tax gap was also closed here. In the case of sale of real estate, profits will be taxed in the future. A type of capital-related tax has also been very likely to be reintroduced, as in the case of sales of securities and shares. Of the Greens today, Mrs Glavischnig has come out with totally good ideas and obviously has not understood what a responsibility the government has here. I would like you to align her with the following: It has the possibility in Vienna, it is there in government responsibility. She could make sure that in Vienna the national staff no longer retire at 52 years of age, as is the case now! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Calls to the Greens.]] For example, it could make sure that the city of Vienna makes savings and not only increases fees, increases taxes, simply increases additional labour costs. Mr Westenthaler has criticized this on us. In Vienna, additional labour costs are increased, in Vienna drivers are being lowered, in Vienna is being shut down, taxpayers can only pay! Furthermore, I would like to say one more thing to Mrs Glavischnig, who is here as though he were the one who is so pleased to highlight the administrative reform: In Vienna, some officer is permanently ordered! Mr. Van der Bellen is responsible for the universities at €200 000 a year. [[Oh, call at the ÖVP.]] There is a bicycle officer in Vienna, a pedestrian officer. [[Call the ÖVP: Unbelievable!]] I mean, you're in government. If you are already in favour of administrative reforms, please stop this abuse and this money-mouse! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In conclusion, since Mr Bucher has been showing himself here as a bulwark speaker in recent times, after he has always been so competitive in the economy, only to say this: Perhaps we should also be careful when reducing national councils that the obstacle is 6 per cent in the future, because then the problem with the BZÖ would have dealt with it too!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-23-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00143_d8e10673	Next speaker: Mr Kickl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-23-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00143_d8e10694	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! [[Unrest in the hall.]] [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign.]] A constant that draws itself through the speeches of the ÖVP – now with colleague Tamandl, but also with the party president Spindelegger –: Finger away from the property of the Austrians! I could sign that. No substance taxation, we don't want to take anything away from people! But it is already quite grotesque, ladies and gentlemen, when it comes from the owner of a party who is sitting with both hands up to the shoulders in the swamp of Telekom. That's grotesk, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I'll tell you: If you had four hands, you'd be stuck in with four hands up to the shoulder! You should think about it. If you're serious about what you're saying – namely: Finger away from the property of the Austrians! – then you should pay again to the taxpayer by paying back this money, ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ and ÖVP! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But I assume you probably won't do that. This is also a bit the message of today's discussion, if you look at the government parties here. There are two worlds in Austria. The one world, that is the world of normal mortals, that is the world of the ASVG-pensionists, the average citizen, the small and medium-sized incomes. That's where the motto is: Fire free, abcassing on devils come out! There is no protection, there are no rights acquired. Everything is wiped away because the cash register has to be filled. - That's the one world. And then there is a second world. This is the world of the red-black proporz system. This is the world that you are embodying and for which Telekom and all that is now being prepared in committees stands. That's the second world, and that's what it says: Possible fingers away! There's nothing to be harmed! Tabuzons are being built. Fingers away and best instead of the constant neutrality that you have ridded, cry out the constant standstill. That's about the model that Mr. Cap's in front of us here. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] There you go with teeth and claws to defend your proporz oases. Even the Minister of Finance is not too stupid to defend from the government bank the political privileges for which no person in this country understands. This shows how far we have already come to Austria and that it is urgently necessary to change something. Ladies and gentlemen, I tell you that this overall government bank is also an example of this state of affairs. We only owe it to the architect, the fact that the space is limited and this bank is no longer behind me, that there are no more ministers and State Secretary sitting there. If the bank were longer, the inability behind me would be even greater, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This is something for which we are obliged to thank the architect. Therefore, I should also like to appeal to the President of the National Council to take account of the appropriate requirements for the redesign of the plenary room and to make sure that the Bank of Government is not getting any longer. Here you would have the opportunity to save here and today, by once narrowing the belt with yourself: as a signal, as a sign of your willingness. If you want something from people, first and foremost you go to self-application! This is something that belongs, and that is what people expect of you. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We give you the opportunity, ladies and gentlemen, and I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] That would be a way to get a chance more. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Oh, my God, you've had a lot of chances. What opportunities would you have had for a sustainable renovation and, finally, a structural reform, a real reform! But they have proved grandmastery in a completely different area. The grandmastery runs you where it's about camouflage, tricks and tricks. There you are Grand Masters, ladies and gentlemen! When it comes to reforms and sustainable savings, you are a failure, because the program you are now coming through is not worthy of the name Saving Package. This is not a consolidation package, ladies and gentlemen, but a programme under the motto: Let's make money! Hands up and down with the zaster! This is the Overwhelming does not apply to the super-rich – Mr Krainer, because you now look so hard - not to those you mentioned in your promises, not to those who caused the crisis, not to the speculators, not to those who have collected the bonuses in the banks; to the normal consumer in that country; and that is the objectionable, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Let's make money! – Under this motto you are from SPÖ and ÖVP repeaters. You don't use any of your tar names either. Loipersdorfer decisions – that sounds very, very cute, but this thing has it in itself. This is a balled load, a cue with which you went to the population; a shot into the middle class, into the families, into the caretaker, into the ASVG-pensionists, without regard to losses. I am therefore saying this because we must not forget this first part of the tragedy in all the burdens we are talking about. It is not true that Loipersdorf, this cult, would have been put out of power. No, ladies and gentlemen, this is all about – the reduction of family aid, the plundering of gas stations – because you don't get enough to collect a mineral oil tax, and so on, and so on. This is the first part of the tragedy whose second part you deliver with this package, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] So the difference is not in the direction of impact. It's not like you'd suddenly become more socially just or anything. The Only Difference between the first and the second package is that you have done much more dilettant in the second than in the first. The Swiss cheese, which is only more of holes, is one of the examples, ladies and gentlemen! How do you even expect in the Ministry of Finance? How's that going? Pi? Or what principle do you apply? The Fekter’s Unsharpenation? Or what is the criterion with which you approach things? [[Cheerfulness and applause at the FPÖ.]] You use analogies that are not allowed at all, you do the bill without the host, and then you plan all of this as great revenue in your budget. Ladies and gentlemen of ÖVP and SPÖ, this is unscrupulous to the square, I can only tell you! If you're doing this, I'm not surprised that this is no different with the financial transaction tax. I'll tell you: The probability that the financial transaction tax will come as you entered it is probably about as great as the probability that now, during my speech, a flying saucer with marsms will land up there. At this level, about we are moving, ladies and gentlemen! You all think that's a serious thing that anyone buys you this?- Oh, my God! Ladies and gentlemen! This is insidious to the no longer going and has nothing to do with structural reform.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-23-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00143_d8e10878	The closing sentence, please!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-23-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00143_d8e10900	The final sentence is actually a very simple one, ladies and gentlemen: The measures in which you become so concrete are unfair and unsocial, and the measures that are just and social are being resolved one by one. Swipp!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-23-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00143_d8e10930	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-23-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00143_d8e10981	Next speaker: Mr Grosz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-23-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00143_d8e11003	High house! We've been experiencing the hacking in this country for two hours now. A few months ago, this Federal Government delivered billions of Austrian tax money down to Greece in order to continue to feed de facto unfinancingables with tax money, and on the other hand, today's bill is to be paid. Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! The token does not pay you, who do not pay your red-black possessors in this Republic, but who pay the taxpayers of our country, and that is de facto the responsibility! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] In life, in the family, in social cohesion, in faith there are always two ways that one is given: the right and the wrong way. With this path of scrapping and loading, you have once again gone the wrong way. Who are you protecting? In the future, they will continue to protect 22 social security institutions which are de facto not eligible for funding from their administration. You will once again protect your close-to-party organizations, which you will be able to pay €62 million over your own resorts in four years, so that they will be able to fight the Austrians on the back of the Austrians as beekeeperl of your two major parties. They protect the political pensions: 4,000 politicians who continue to take great pensions in the old system, retirement model Wolfgang Schüssel. But on the other hand are They are not able to advance the pension harmonisation of officials in the countries. You will leave the press promotion in this country unsealed so that you can buy your good court report; but on the other hand, you think about introducing redeployment taxes and thus further taxes in that country. Of course, they leave the red and black school administration completely unscathed. It's not going to be discussed. That's where they say that's a problem for the countries. So all the red and black quastels in the state school councils, the district school councils and the district school inspectors who may continue to burden the budget, but most importantly, you have once again shortened with the Austrians. The ÖBB are protected. The billions you transfer annually from tax funds to the ÖBB are not minimized, instead of finally addressing and reforming this unfinancing system. By the way, you can't hear anything from the National Bank at all. Mr Raidl has apparently arranged with this Federal Government. The reserves at the National Bank for the Protection of Privilege Pensions remain completely unscathed; in the meantime, you are going here and using the salaries of police officers, i.e. those who guarantee the maintenance of public security in that country, although they have already had to experience redundancies! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] You are inventing new taxes and de facto increasing social security contributions by raising the basis of assessment. And you're also cutting the building-saving premium! Since one of you said today by the government parties on the subject of mass taxes – I think the Federal Chancellor was – that these had not been introduced anyway, I should like to point out to you that: Today I paid 1,60 € in Wiener Neustadt for 1 litre diesel fuel! [[Abg. Riepl: Sever Blame!]] What are you talking about, then, that new mass taxes have not been introduced by you, if you are already taking 55 percent of this fuel delusion we are currently experiencing in Austria, if you're cutting people off so as to feed them off with homeopathic increases in donor aid! You don't believe that any more in this country! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The rents rise, but you miss out on SPÖ and ÖVP once again to reform the system. What you're doing is just: They use tax money to maintain an unfinancing system. They're giving up currents on a hard drive that's been caught by the virus for a long time. Instead of taking this crisis as an opportunity to finally reform the state structure, to take long-standing measures – I am just saying: Social security – and to put the state on new pillars, continue to finance this insanity so that you do not conflict with your red and black partygoers in the individual organizations! To Mr Donabauer, who is now sitting so quietly, the chairman of the Farmers' Social Insurance Institute: The farmers no longer have any money in their pocket, but the Mr. Obmann of the Farmers' Social Insurance Institute and National Councillors, his job and his administrative apparatus, his hundreds of officials, who are actually servants of the farmers in our country, all this is further financed! Similarly, Mrs Csörgits of the ÖGB has today “forget” once again to admit that there are no cuts at the Chamber of Labour, neither at the Chamber of Commerce, nor at the ÖGB. They all get their subsidies. So you make this country, this system unfinancing, by increasing taxes instead of finally putting on the savings fund with yourself!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-23-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00143_d8e11073	Next speaker: Mr Krainer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-23-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00143_d8e11095	Mr President. High house! I think it's time to come back to reality here at the speaker's desk. By the way: I can only say that in Vienna-Ottakring today the Sprit has cost 1.39 €. I do not know where you drink, Mr Grosz, but perhaps you should choose another gas station to save something like that. [[Calls and calls between representatives of BZÖ and SPÖ.]] [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign. - Abg. Grosz placed a sign with the inscription “GEG GEZAHLT!” well visible on his table.]] Klubobmann's head has rightly said that it is a matter of rethinking the way, namely the way in terms of debt. Here you can see how debt development in Austria has been in recent years: [[The speaker shows a graphic]] From the mid-1990s, debt was reduced from almost 70 percent to 2007, that is, before the crisis broke out, to less than 60 percent. However, this crisis has caused the debt to explode to more than 70 percent. Therefore: Yes, we have to go back to this path of debt reduction. There are a number of important measures that have been taken in recent years to follow this path. In Austria we had the problem, before the crisis broke out de facto, that the way in which work or other types of income are taxed is extremely unfair. [[Interlocutory calls from representatives of FPÖ and BZÖ.]] In Austria, the labour factor is taxed far too high. Example: If you earn €50,000 a year in different ways, if you have previously earned it through various speculations, by renting, renting or by interest, then you have paid significantly less taxes than if you have earned the money through work. You can see here at work of the tallest beams; a tax of €50 000 of over €33 000 in taxes and taxes; [[the speaker shows a graphic with the heading “taxes & charges”]] Service providers' taxes on top, so to speak. [[Interlocutory calls from representatives of FPÖ and BZÖ.]] What did we do at the first step, namely after the clause in Loipersdorf? – A number of taxes and taxes have been increased or re-introduced. The foundation tax has been doubled from 12.5 percent internally to 25 percent; Profits from stock speculation are taxed at 25 percent, as are interest income. And what have we done now? – Now we have closed further gaps, remove further injustices that have existed so far – i.e. taxation of real estate profits, as well as taxation of profits from reorientations. [[Abg. Strache: Are these the red numbers in Vienna?- Oh, my God!]] But: Is the world just for that? – No, it is not fair for a long time, but it has become more just, because the difference between taxation of earnings, of income from work, of non-profit income, of capital and wealth income, has improved significantly and we have now significantly reduced this imbalance. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] You see, I have added an additional area which is not yet taxed, also an unprofitable income, i.e. income from inheritances and gifts that are not yet taxed. [[The speaker shows a graphic the other day.]] Yes, there are still a number of questions that we are dealing with from the SPÖ, which we are pursuing from the SPÖ and where we will not give rest, until these injustices, which are still in our tax system, have been eliminated, and see that everyone is making a fair contribution to the financing of the state. No contribution has yet been made in the case of inheritances and gifts. We from SPÖ will continue to work to ensure that a contribution is made. However, we have re-established or increased a number of wealth and property taxes in order to ensure more justice. We are proud of this and therefore we support this package. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] What has not been wrongly criticized here, and also on the part of the Greens, is the question of how the European framework conditions look. Yes, it is a problem that the European Union is made up of 27 countries, all of which need to finance crisis costs, and it is also true that almost all the wrong measures are taking, such as, for example, what is most popular among many, to increase VAT. By the way, Mr Strache – you don't have to look so stunned at all – your honourable Member Kappel proposed a month ago that VAT should also be increased in Austria. [[Numerous calls to the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. She doesn't have that! That's wrong!]] So this is something that happens in very, very many European countries and is really to be criticized, because of course this has a negative impact on growth and employment in these countries – and this would, of course, also be bad conditions for Austria. Here in Austria, we have tied up a package that explicitly ensures that jobs are not threatened by this restructuring package, and we are also proud that we probably have the most socially just, fairest, growth-oriented and employment-friendly savings package in all countries. But it must also be said that, apart from Austria, there is only another country with a Social Democratic Prime Minister – in this case a Prime Minister, namely Denmark – and otherwise conservatives or liberals lead the governments. Unfortunately, the savings packages also look the same if the social democratic manuscript is not recognized as in Austria. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If Mr Strache here says that the subsidies should simply be halved, because in Austria we have 6.5 percent of subsidies and in the EU section it is 3%, then we also have to look at what these 6.5 percent are made up of. More than half consists of the following subsidies: The 13th and 14ths. Monthly salary is a subsidy, the overtime, the tax advantage is a subsidy, as are the benefits in respect of handling and commuting. This already accounts for more than half of these subsidies. [[Abg. Grosz: Mr. Federal Chancellor! Do you believe what he says?]] If Mr Strache says he wants to delete half, that means nothing but that he is 13. and 14. Monthly salary, finishing, overtime, and flat rate in the visor! And we are sure to reject this; after that, the Austrians can rely that we have the 13th and 14ths. A month's salary will be protected from our colleague. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-23-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00143_d8e11268	Next speaker: Member of the Council of Ministers of the European Communities. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-23-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00143_d8e11290	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! It was really a big piece that the government had established a consensus there – according to these economic policy signs from Schilda, so to speak. The EIA positions were always clear: save and reform, confidence and future design instead of a crisis worship. We need sustainable structural development and an objective analysis of the starting position. Austria is not the only country in which there is a spasm. It is also not at risk to our welfare state, but we must say goodbye to the Kreisky socialism of the 1970s, because this all inclusive society cannot work. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] It is simply not fair to spend more than you have taken. We do not have a problem with revenue, but, above all, with expenditure. [[Calls to the Greens.]] Above all, the ÖVP has once again been the defender of the owners – under the slogan: Property must not be affected! Whoever creates something through work through generations cannot be taken from it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] A principle must apply: the difference between mine and yours. Everything else is ideology and from the past and is always based on the basic ideas of Communism. Policy must bear responsibility for the future. It does not help to always worship the finance ministers of the past 70 years like the father-in-law. This does not help people in our country, especially my generation, the young people in this country, at all. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Do you pray to the finance ministers? Interesting!]] [[Abg. Grosz: And the father-in-law!]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! We must look to the future, recognize the problem before us, make decisions and bear responsibility for it! Not only the responsibility of politics, but also the personal responsibility of each individual is required. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We have overloaded the state over the last decades and now we have to realize that the state cannot do everything and cannot be responsible for everything. It's unfair to give more than you have. It is important to be a realist, justice and attention are required. Especially the justice between generations will accompany us for a long time. We have also achieved structural effects, we have been able to implement reforms, especially the increase in the fictitious and factual retirement age that many experts have long called for. That's what makes us move forward. We must finally adapt this to demographic developments – an introduction of the pension account in order to create transparency for the contributors. However, these measures will only be understood in the population if they are carried by all groups. It is important to bear responsibility. I would also like to address the floor to the SPÖ and the Greens, who are responsible in Vienna. It is not responsible if staff of the city of Vienna are still retired at 52 years of age. The objectives of the reforms in the pension sector are to protect and preserve existing pensions, but also to ensure future ones. To achieve sustainable saving and structural reforms means: Reducing debt so that the interest rate burden takes place and finally create room for the future. We have to put Austria on healthy legs, eliminate double-tracks in expenditure and finally end life on pump. Sustainable and responsible policy is the one that does the necessary at the right time. Even if it's hard to do what's right – it doesn't always have to be the right thing for everyone, but we can't afford any more convenience policy. This savings package is characterised by seriousness, sense of reality and reform zeal. It is certainly the much more difficult way to save and bring people closer to the political needs, but it is the only way that opens us up room for the future. Perhaps we can also win the opposition for this right, sustainable way for Austria. Leave the populists' way! As a People's Representative, take care of your responsibility for our Republic of Austria!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-23-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00143_d8e11370	Next speaker: Mr Scheibner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-23-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00143_d8e11394	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Col. Krainer, perhaps by means of a seminar of the Renner Institute on presentation technology you could at least create a flipchart so that you can read the films you have presented to us here. If you are all so excited and know this package and above all the steering effects so well – much better than we do – then I would like to explain it with you so that we also know. Maybe we just don't understand, and you have really had very good intentions with this package, because we are now constantly hearing that there are the steering effects. I am now really serious about the question – in this case especially to the SPÖ – which is, for example, the control effect of real estate taxation. So far, sales profits in real estates that were less than ten years of age have had to be taxed by 50 percent. Real estate that you had over ten years of age was not taxed. The steering effect was clear: One charges speculators who buy objects and sell them back immediately, but long-term investments are to be promoted. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: They pay now also 25 percent!]] That's what you're gonna do now. Those who have an object for more than ten years now have to pay taxes. So he who has a garden house or a second residence and sells after 20 years, because he might want to organize a little more capital before the pension, is asked to cash. But the speculant, who develops an interest-rate house – as it is so beautiful – so buys, sees that he brings the tenants out and then sells more expensive, now pays only more than half of the taxes from so far. Ladies and gentlemen, where is the steering effect? I ask you – perhaps you can still give the answer! The speculators are encouraged, the tax is halved, but those who may have acquired real estate as a supply that has invested in the long term will be asked to cash. - A great steering effect! [[BZÖ and FPÖ are welcome.]] It's the same with the steering effects when it comes to building savings. Yes, Federal Chancellor, you can say that is only a few euros. But this is about a steering effect. The signal when building savings was increased was that people can create a home by means of favourable loans – but you have to pay something first. Of course, these investments are going into the economy, because you have to present invoices, you have to engage in works and you can't do that by any blackwork or self-initiatives. This is a useful steering effect. Where is your steering effect by at least halving this advantage? I don't know, maybe you can explain this to me. Where is the steering effect in pension provision? – We always wanted to put the signal that they said: State pension insurance will have ever greater problems, i.e. one should invest in the precautionary care itself. Therefore, there is this tax advantage as a steering effect. - Wonderful! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oils.]] Mr Oellinger, you are perfectly right, the problem lies elsewhere. The pension funds make losses with the money. But you could handle that differently. A steering effect would be to force pension funds to buy, for example, Austrian government bonds that are well paid instead of speculating the money of pensioners on international capital markets. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] But, Mr Krainer, where is the steering effect in reducing these tax benefits? I don't understand, maybe you can explain this to me. Or: the steering effect of the political parties. Yes, it is certainly an important signal that one also reduces the funds among the parties, but one does not shorten in the promotion of the parties, but in the promotion of the Academy, i.e. where the use of money is audited, where there is a legal mandate where there is citizenship education. [[Call the FPÖ:When it comes to education!]] But when it comes to – and about it we are just discussing – advertising, posters and other files, it is not shortened. Ladies and gentlemen, where is the steering effect?- Oh, my God! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I could give you a few other examples. I believe that you have not really thought all of this and have not even thought about the fundamental reforms. I also want to filter out something positive: The merger of district courts has long been necessary and meaningful. I'm excited what'll really come out. But why are you stuck with this grain from the Maria-Theresian era? What about the other levels of administration? How does it look in the school administration? – Nothing has gone on, although it would have been a useful opportunity now, and you would have had the majority. Ladies and gentlemen of the Austrian People's Party, you say: Yes, the pensions and the services at the national level – and then you say: Vienna! Yeah, you're right. Just, ladies and gentlemen, do we really keep going by the princes – and that's not just about Vienna – on the nose? – If they are not willing to go there, we will do so with a constitutional change! We are the legislator who could force these princes to move to the reform course. But we do not find anything in this area either. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Tax increases, tax increases make you immediately – as was the last time in 2006. The tax revenue flows, you're right. We don't have a revenue problem, but you still increase taxes. But the savings, the structural reforms overtake you. That's gonna be the way it is now. There will no longer be you in the Federal Government – and we are still waiting for the reforms.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-23-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00143_d8e11473	No one is reporting on this. I therefore conclude the debate. We come to the votes. First of all, we are voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Hofer, fellow Members, on maintaining the promotion of the future at its present level. I would ask those Members who are in favour of this request to have a sign of approval. – The request is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Hofer, fellow Members, on the maintenance of the state savings premium at present. Hiezu, supported by 20 Members, has been called for by name. That is why we are doing so. The ballots are in the pults, bear the name of the Members and the name “Yes” – these are the grey polls – or “No” – these are the pink ones. We're going to make a naughty call. I would ask those Members who are in favour of the present motion for a resolution, to put “Yes” votes against, “No” votes against. I would ask you to ensure that only one vote is cast per Member. I now ask the author, Mr Zanger, to begin the call for name; Mrs Mag. Lohfeyer will replace him later.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-23-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00143_d8e11553	The vote will end. I ask the House officials to carry out the counting under the supervision of the scribes. I'm interrupting the session for a few minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-23-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00143_d8e11591	I will resume the interrupted sitting and announce the outcome of the vote: Votes cast 159; of which ‘Yes’ votes: 65, No votes: 94. The present motion for a resolution is therefore rejected. According to § 66 para. 8 of the Rules of Procedure, the names of the Members shall be included in the Stenographic Protocol, stating their voting behaviour. Members voted in ‘Yes’: Belakovich-Jenewein, Brosz Dieter, Bucher Josef; Deimek, Dolinschek, Doppler; Fichtenbauer; Glavischnig-Piesczek, Grabauer, Graf, Grosz Gerald, Grünewald; Hackl Heinz-Peter, Hagen, Haider, Haubner Ursula, Herbert Werner, Höbart Christian, Hofer, Huber Gerhard, Hübner Johannes; Jannach, jury; Karlsböck, Kaufmann-Bruckberger, Kickl, Kitzmüller, Kogler, Korun, Kunasek; Lightenecker, Linder, List, Lugar Robert; Markowitz, Mayerhofer, Mühlberghuber, Musiol; Neubauer Werner; Oils; Petzner, Pirklhuber, Podgorschek; Riemer, Rosary; Scheibner, Donk, Schwentner, Stefan, Strache, Strutz; Tadler Erich, Themessl; Inland waterways; Van der Bellen, Venier, Vilimsky, Vock; Walser, Westenthaler, Widmann Rainer, Windbüchler-Sushill, Windholz; Singer, Zinggl. Members voted with ‘No’: Ablinger, Amon, Aubauer, Auer Joseph, Bayr, Mulder, Binder-Maier, Buchmayr; Cap, Cortolezis scraper, Csörgits; Donabauer Karl, Donnerbauer Heribert, Transmitter; Incubators, eaters; Fazekas, Franz, Fuhrmann, Fürntrath-Moretti; Gartlehner, Gäsner, Gessl-Ranftl, Glaser, Grillitsch, Großruck; Hakel Elisabeth, Hammer, Haubner Peter, Hechtl, Heinzl, Hell, Höfinger, Hellererer, Hörl, Hornek, Huainigg; Jarolim; Kaipel, Katzian, Kirchgatterer, Clickovits, Köfer, Königsberger-Ludwig, Head, Kößl, Krainer, Herbs, Crist, Kuntzl, Kuzdas; Lapp, Lettenbichler, Lipitsch, Lohfeyer, Lopatka, Lueger Angela; Maier Johann, Marek, Matznetter, Mayer Elmar, Mayer Peter, Muttonen; Neugebauer Fritz; Oberhauser, Obernosterer; Pendl, Plessl, Prehauser, Praßl, Preiner, Prince; Rädler Johann, Rasinger, Riepl, Rudas; Sacher, Schickhofer, Schitzenhelm, Schmielenschlager, Schönegger Bernd, Schultes, Silhavy, Singer, Spindelberger, Stauber Peter, Steibl Ridi Maria, Steindl Konrad, Steßl-Mühlbacher, Stummvoll; Tamandl; Wenninger, weeinger, worm.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-23-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00143_d8e11774	We shall come to a further vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Strache, fellow Members, on the immediate reduction of the Federal Government. Whoever is in favour of this request, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. I announce: In accordance with Rule 43 of the Rules of Procedure, the amendment tabled by Members of Parliament, Bucher, colleagues, will not be put to the vote because the motion for a resolution, which is contrary to Rule 1826/A(E), is not assigned. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the allocation shall take place at the next meeting. The request for a time limit will also be put to the vote at the next part-session. In addition, the request for a short debate on this request for a deadline is therefore indisputable. [[16:31:35]] Short debate on a deadline request
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-23-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00143_d8e11827	We shall now proceed to a brief debate. The short debate concerns the request made by Mr Magistrate. Kogler, the Constitutional Committee on Reporting on Amendment 945/A(E) by Mrs Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek concerning ‘glass party funds’ a period of up to 7. This year. After the end of this debate, the vote will take place on the proposed deadline. We are going into the debate. I would draw attention to the fact that no speaker is allowed to speak for more than 5 minutes, with the first speaker giving 10 minutes of reason as a speaking time. Statements by members of the Federal Government or by State Secretarys shall not take more than 10 minutes. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Kogler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-23-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00143_d8e11864	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! The deadline for a request from the Cubob woman Glawischnig and my ability to make a party donation has its reason that we should finally send a signal that something is going on in this House. The proposal lies in the Constitutional Committee, and if we set the deadline for a joint vote in March, that is to say a positive one, it would be a start to the negotiations which Klubobmann Cap and Klubobmann, who are now very much talking, have put forward with a result before the summer. We are of course aware that this is not in three days and not in three weeks. Since everything has always been dragged away, we have to start with the details now, but the cornerstones have been known for a long time. What is it all about, colleague Cap? – First of all: Austria is a ‘corruption case’: Secondly, The heart of any anti-corruption is the disclosure of the party donations. Thirdly, We will submit a proposal of content to the opposition parties in the coming week, we, the government parties, and at the same time deadline proposals. The first quote is from Mark Pieth, OECD, of the anti-corruption working group working closely with GRECO, the anti-corruption initiative within the Council of Europe. Mark Pieth: Austria is a “corruption case” – that is with regard to many processes that he had to observe last year. And of course he wouldn't think of anything better now, I suppose. The centrepiece of any anti-corruption is the party donation. – This is from Franz Fiedler and now also a chairman of Transparency International Austria. The third quote is from 6. May 2011, i.e. May of the previous year, by Karlheinz Kopf, on the issue of party donation and party financing. Head: We're going to be the opposition parties in the next week – that's something like that on 13th. May 2011 is happening – submit a content proposal and also the deadline proposals. Well, the story is still known. What has been referred to has been an initiative taken here by Parliament. We from the Court of Auditors met once in 2010 and said: How could this look so that we can communicate over five parties? – In fact, there is a useful political score on all relevant areas of the party donation. This is not so easy in the matter, but you have agreed and presented a solution. This has not been sent to the government for a long time, but it has rightly been said: In fact, this has to be resolved by Parliament itself. - That's right, too. So it has been laid in the hands of the club people who took over the assignment in December 2010 that this will be done the following year, best until summer – so we remember – now everything is a year later, but also before the summer. And in May 2010, Karlheinz Kopf says we will finish and transmit it. Didn't happen. Let's put the accusations in place – that's what's going to be She may be surprised – but something has to happen now, not only because of the enforceability of the opposition, but also because of the importance of politics as a whole. It must be something that deserves this name, namely, a successful heartpiece of anti-corruption, a successful party donation law. At this point, I even agree with a few points of content, so that we do not end up with sham arrangements, just because we have to get done quickly, because they may be moving once, ladies and gentlemen of the government parties. It's perfectly clear what it's all about. I have here the relevant law of the Federal Republic of Germany with: Law on the political parties, Party Law. [[The speaker shall keep a document up to date.]] It is also called “party law” where party funding is regulated and also the disclosure of donations, whereby the term “public disclosure” in Austria in the current state of law is a rejuvenation of the special class, because it is actually a cover-up law. That's something that should be rehabilitated. In this German party law you will find almost everything that a successful disclosure law needs. So what should be so difficult about us taking it into the cores and putting it into practice? But that's really the lowest latte of what needs to happen. What's the matter? – Prohibition of anonymous donations from a certain height, that is to say, the exception of the limits of luggage, and much more important, in the reverse, is a appropriate disclosure, as in Germany, from a certain level on the Internet and immediately and smaller amounts nevertheless obliged to disclose in the corresponding accounting report – but disclosure. Prohibition of donations. Then the sanctions and control provisions. I'm still staying with you. Some of you already know the story, but it is time and again to repeat it, and this time for the record. – By the way, I add: For many years we have been fighting for this matter, this is also to be read in this Minutes. And if we are going to have the discussions outside the constituencies, you will have to justify why this has been dragged away since the beginning of the mid-2000s. At the latest since Eurofighter's story, we've been following this to bring this to the ground. By the way, the Eurofighter purchase will also have enough to fly up what has happened, which has not yet become so clear. It will not help you anything, the only way is now actually to escape forward. Let's do that! Let's do that, do it! In the area of the ban on donations, this is quite clear. . I would like to draw attention to the Minutes that there is in the ranks of the EIA a Member who is still swinging with his head all the time. [[Abg. Rädler shakes the head.]] I shall have the honourable Member's name examined, because he never says anything in the front, but in the back, he will swing his head so that we can have it in the minutes next time. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] This may be typical of the ÖVP, that Klubobmann's head, who already wants to take this away, understands the flight forward in such a way that he flees from the debate, but the backbanders swing with his head. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wöger.]] – Congratulations on your condition, that will not help you, because we will not let go of this anymore. And I would like to tell you once again this relevant provision. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Wöger.]] – Yes, look up at the audience, that is already amusing about your superiority! This money laundering is such a typical for Austria. I am telling you how this is being regulated in Germany. It is actually forbidden there and is subject to sanctions. In Austria it is particularly favoured. If the Industrial Union accepts money – and we know that it has happened – in order to give it to its party in particular, it will be particularly beneficial about anything that we have called “party law” which should actually ensure transparency. In Germany this is expressly forbidden! It is forbidden for good reasons – and not only forbidden, but also subject to punishment. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] It is not only with the sanction that the double, in case of a more serious breach of intent, of the triple amount must be repaid – that is probably clear anyway – of the organization, of the party, no, there are also criminal sanctions for those individually responsible persons. These can be party managers, they can be party owners, which are covered by this threat of punishment. This is so important, because of course there is always a residual criminal energy in this environment and therefore a deterrent effect must be developed from the outset. Because someone might think about whether he's boots around with a prep, but then certainly not in here, but just more outside. That is the reasonable, dissuasive effect on the spot. It's in here. [[The speaker refers to a document in his hand]] Up to three years when circumventing these two bans, if “in the intention” – that is the criminal term in Germany, with us it is a little different – is being acted! Five Years, even when auditors participate, which should actually test the correctness. I think that's very intense, but I think it's just as right. We would need it much more than the sister parties in the Federal Republic of Germany. We don't have to think about it at all. So let's do that! That is why I say this on the spot so that we can also outline the course of the negotiations a little bit. A sham law won't be enough for that. That is to say, we need a law that includes the essential and most important points in all clarity, creates control possibilities and lays down sanctions. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] That must be the objective of the negotiations, and it will also be possible to do so. For the Protocol: It is Mr Hans Rädler, his sign mayor, who has always washed his head here, why, he will still explain it himself. Thank you very much at this point for the cooperation of Mr Rädler, who in this way and Now let's see if we can get to the speaker's desk. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] We come to the succus of this whole matter: The fight against corruption is a command of the hour, disclosures and transparency. This has to include the politicians and also the parties. Let's do that! And let's see that we're starting now! So: Now the deadline, otherwise we're not done again in the summer, and the head has to flee again.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-23-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00143_d8e12056	A maximum of 5 minutes per speech is available for further word messages. Mr Delegate spoke on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Herbs. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-23-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00143_d8e12080	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! I have a motion for a resolution of 21. September 2006 by the SPÖ, and there is a clear and clear statement, we want an obligation of all parties to publish donations from a amount of € 7 000. That is, the problem solution has been clear to the SPÖ for many years. However, we are not alone in this Parliament, we do not have an absolute majority, and we are in a coalition. [[Intervocations with FPÖ and greens.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Is the coalition to blame again!]] That is why we still need action here. To be honest, I would have preferred it if the law had already been passed before the report by GRECO, this anti-corruption force of the Council of Europe. This report has not been very flattering and, of course, we have also been slipping into a position that is really embarrassing for the Republic of Austria. I myself initiated a working group with the Federal Managing Directors and Secretary Generals of all parties two years ago, and we have compiled the key facts: that more than €7 000 of donations are to be published to parties, that the Court of Auditors and Parliament make the publication and that there are drastic sanctions. This is not a cavalier crime, for example, this Part of the Game number. Mr Kickl, in particular, has emerged today as a corruption fighter, but we have not heard anything about that. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] And not by Mr. Strache, who protects and covers all of this, this “Part of the Game” number by Mr. Scheuch from Carinthia. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Kickl.]] You can act there once, Mr Kickl, because it is ultimately about the credibility of democracy. There are three remaining areas of problem, ladies and gentlemen. The autonomy of the countries: In the meantime, one negotiates in Vorarlberg, one negotiates in Salzburg, and there are quite different value limits in the game, 1 000 €, 3 000 €. I think it's okay, too, that's federalism, but as a federal rule, we have to set a framework for everyone. Of course, one can create a more stringent regime in the countries, but of course no milder. The second major problem, which is so easily discussed at all times, is the so-called pre-disposition organisations, the related organisations of the parties. There are actual organizations, which is enshrined in the statutes, but also supposed, with no reference or any attachment to a party at all. And there are dozens, including those who are not statically recorded in the federal government, in the countries. There are NGOs that are assigned to the Greens, at the ÖVP there are the gangs, at the SPÖ organizations, associations of all kinds. Are these all parties now, are they to be treated the same way or is there association law? – It is clear and undisputed that there is consensus to make donations to parties – whether by a legal person, by a natural person, by an association – transparent. In any event, close-to-state companies will not be in question in the future or even in foreign companies or persons. But donate to the clubs, it can't be. A club is not a party. I would like to make one example of what I am doing anyway. At nature lovers and alpine club: If anyone spends an alpine hut on nature lovers or the Alpine club, what does it have to do with party funding? [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] For example, the Alpenverein would now give this alpine hut, which is worth €20 000 from me, as a donation to the ÖVP or vice versa, nature lovers to the SPÖ, then it would be a donation. It's not a bad thing yet. Why not? There is no expectation, except something that moves us all anyway, of an environmentally conscious legislation in Austria. It's not corruption or something like that. If there are money or property donations, then they are to be published. [[Abg. Kickl: Then make it transparent!]] But I'm warning you that you're outlawing the law of the club over this detour. You have to consider one thing: Clubs, whether in sports, cultural or social, are dependent on donations. We can't criminalise all this right now. Whenever donations from the associations – in order to make this clear now – go to parties, of course, there is full transparency and all consequences. By the way, a problem circle is still open – individuals. For example, what about a federal presidential election if someone does not appear as a party, but as an individual? – We need to get a little bit of that too. So all these things are not quite clear. I very much hope that we will be able to reach a decision in the next few weeks and months. Every day I fight for it, and we want a consensus. We succeeded in the media transparency law essentially, there were at least two opposition parties with it. But this should also succeed in the party transparency and also in the lobbyist law. There is still a need for all kinds of work. For example, Korinek said: Well, it has nothing to do with anti-corruption. A few findings from the Committee of Inquiry will also be included. [[The speaker holds a “curier ” in height.]] “One million for rotten orange”, equally preventive for speakers from the BZÖ today. [[Abg. Grosz: Mr Chief Government Council of Herbs! What about Mr Gartlehner?- Oh, my God!]] – Then, I think, the turnaround could succeed in greatly improving the image of politics, political actors, parties, democracy. Ladies and gentlemen, we need a few more days, a few more weeks, then we will do that.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-23-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00143_d8e12181	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Lopatka. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-23-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00143_d8e12202	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I can't do it as cheaply as the honourable Member's herbs to say that directly. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Petzner.]] It's easy to say: We need a few days, then we'll have it. If it were so simple, we would have to have it for a long time, Mr Herb. Do you know where the problem is, why don't we have it yet? – And here we should be honest, namely, we, the two major parties, above all, are honest. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] A regulation that only meets the covenant is only half the rent. We need a system in which the federal states too are covered. If you have read the GRECO report, you will get to where the main problem is very quickly. No one is mentioned in this GRECO report as often as the Federal Capital of Vienna. I have to tell you now, and I am now quoting from the GRECO report. The GRECO report has come to the fore on seven points, in particular the Federal Capital of Vienna. What does the GRECO report say? – Despite its economic and political significance, the state of Vienna has not even adopted minimum standards in this respect, namely how to regulate party funding. And what will be done here? If you succeed in bringing the city of Vienna aboard, then we are already very far, because if we create an arrangement, then we need a general government regulation. That is to say, it must not only cover the federal government and the federal organisation, and here the subdividuals and the preparatory organizations, but it must be a regulation that has also been applied at country level from Vorarlberg to Burgenland, in Lower Austria as well as in Vienna. So what's this about? – The rules governing party financing are only in Austria and only in the state of Vienna – GRECO report! – not public. First point. Second point – GRECO report, point 26 –: Only in Vienna there are no rules for the examination of the financial resources of public party financing. Point 40 of the GRECO Report points out that there is no audit report only in Vienna on grants for the public relations of political parties. According to point 45 of the GRECO report, Vienna is the only state in which there is no public control when it comes to the promotion of parties. Mr Kogler, because you have already spoken here and you are at the point of view: The Greens would have a chance to force the Federation to move. In Vienna the Greens are in the government. Why do I not hear from the Greens in Vienna, although the GRECO report so massively criticizes Vienna? [[Congratulations with ÖVP and BZÖ.]] Mr Brosz is still speaking. I am already excited about what initiatives he will present to us here, which the Greens are setting in Vienna. [[Abg. May. Kogler: This has nothing to do with the donation!]] – It has a lot to do with it. Mr Kogler, the donation is important, but that alone would be far too little, we hopefully agree. The GRECO report, Mr Kogler, is a comprehensive report and shows exactly where we need action, and we need action. [[Abg. May. Kogler: in the fight against corruption!]] We have shortcomings in transparency, we have shortcomings in control and we also need sanctions. Of course we also need sanctions, otherwise such a law is a stupid law. This is the first point I have mentioned. These are the federal states that we need to get on board here, we want to take this seriously. I am already excited whether there is a five-party agreement at the party negotiations and whether this support and this rhetorical definition of my colleague Herbs will have real consequences when it comes to confessing color. The second point: GRECO has given us a long period of time, until June 2013. We want this resolved faster. We want this, if possible, to be settled before the summer. Another point which is very important and which we also need to take up is, of course, the economic environment of political parties. We want companies in which parties are directly or indirectly involved, as well as related organisations and such undertakings to be accountable. That is what we want to have regulated. One point that is also important to us is the promotion of the parties. [[Abg. Silhavy: You don't want it!]] – We want this very clearly, and you know it. If you don't know, Mrs. Colleague, you know it now. Of us, there is a proposal that your group already knows. We have clear ideas. What we want is a comprehensive regulation concerning the pre-convention of the political parties, but not only the federal government, but also the federal states, in particular the Federal Capital of Vienna. [[Abg. Grosz: And spouses of ÖVP delegates!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-23-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00143_d8e12310	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Rosenkranz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-23-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00143_d8e12332	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Mr Jarolim, thank you for the call. I come from Lower Austria, I could tell you a lot, but I can only say that Erwin Pröll understands so well with Michael Häupl because they are a sense and have the same character – no matter what party book they have. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] They are the political blockers in Austria. That is why there is nothing going on in the reforms that we have dealt with in the context of the urgent question. But now on the question of party financing. So simple, colleague herbs, you can't do it. The reality is that an apparatus has been working in this Austria since 1945, where one is inside a party-political network from driving and sports activities to getting used to being in the clubs, in every phase of life. I believe that the only thing that is not yet organized in our country is dying. But maybe I'm still missing the reports. [[Calls.]] So even there. Anyway, I only heard announcements here today. Colleague Herbs has said that it is only the parties that are involved, and there has been an application since 2006 for more than €7 000 in donations. That's not it. We have heard in the Investigation Committee examples of how party funding actually goes in Austria. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Herbs.]] It's going to be working with bills to deal with everything. In the management cabinets of the semi-governmental companies, own employees are placed on the pay lists of these companies that have nothing to do but operate party policy there. Some have said we have some wishes. You know what? – If the ÖVP had wishes, she had her contact in the preliminary room of the Board of Directors of Telekom. There were the Santa Claus, the Christkind and the Easter hare for the ÖVP. They were sitting there at the expense of those paying fees. That is the unheard-of. We have already read, one of the political directors has already been on leave because of these developments. Everything's going in the right direction, coming out of here. [[As a result, the Commission has not yet received any comments from the Member States.]] If we are talking about economic interrelationships, I have to give the EIA absolutely right. All journalists in this country say that what Karl-Heinz Grasser has done with his foundations, with his many accounts, with his many locks of companies, this grassification serves only one purpose, namely to hide. What is the SPÖ Vienna doing with its corporate interests from Echo Verlag, from the Medienhaus, beginning? – It is nothing but the gratification of the party funding that takes place in Vienna. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But have you, ladies and gentlemen, ever heard that the upper decker Peter Pilz had denounced the system of SPÖ Vienna in any form? We hear from the Committee of Inquiry that Mr Rahimi is coming directly to Mr Hochegger and says: Can't Deutsche Telekom do something for the SPÖ Vienna or for the SPÖ election campaign? Highly thought about, 20 000 € will be paid to the Echo Media House. Mr. Pöttler then even says in his threatening that he has not transferred any money to the SPÖ, no cent. I'll tell you one thing: When a cent lands in the Echo Medienhaus, it landed directly at the SPÖ Vienna, because there is just this company shaft. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That's the grass. But Mr. Aufdecker Peter Pilz finds nothing to do with such a thing. In reality, the Greens have become a toothless tiger when it comes to discovering because they cannot do anything at all in terms of government participation in Vienna. I'll tell you something else. So far, only one has been shown in the Committee of Inquiry: Since 2005, since H.-C. Just as FPÖ has taken over, there is no malversation to be attributed to a person who is here. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This truth, as it hurts, must be taken note of. One thing, because it has also fallen on the question of the individual – what was it like an intellectual idea? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] Can you repeat that? – It is rosary twice even instead of rosestingl, that is quite right. [[Further call of the Abg. Wheeler.]] And I must say that Mr Rädler, who has already delivered his business card, once again has shone here with the intellectual highest performance of the day. He will certainly receive an award from the MPs afterwards, and it will probably not be a banana. Ladies and gentlemen, the solution to the question of party financing is something that the people desire. We do not need a popular desire to do this, but we need a fast, determined approach to this, and it will also be about the individual mandate. Only against one thing do I want to remember, because this discussion is also taken up by the media: At least in the FPÖ there are no backbanders. The hierarchy of space is one thing, but we have wise Members. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If you want to have it different, the President will have to make a series of sittings for 175, 183, 100, 121, so that everyone will sit in the first row.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-23-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00143_d8e12429	Next speaker: Mr Brosz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-23-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00143_d8e12451	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! First of all, we should talk about what has been promised and broken in Parliament. Colleagues' head has been quoted; before Christmas, it's called. Christmas is over, but the law is not in place. It's not a coincidence, it's not an individual case, it's not there. The Committee of Inquiry as a minority law looks similar. There are signed agreements. Mr Cap has now gone out; perhaps he is trying to find a new ballpoint pen. [[Abg. Grosz: That's where he's standing! He's acting out of the back!]] - Aha, he's back there. Cap and Head signed: As regards the establishment of investigation committees, minority law should apply. I think if I remember right now, about a year and a half ago, so in the summer of 2010, the signature was that this should be implemented. It is interesting that Mr Herbivore is now coming here, calling on the ÖVP, and pretending that only the ÖVP is guilty of disclosure of party finances. I cannot judge this precisely because I was not involved in these negotiations. However, I can only tell you that as far as the establishment of investigation committees as minority law is concerned – Mr Cap, perhaps you can get back here – the SPÖ has a major share of the fact that nothing has happened so far, because the will in the SPÖ government group has apparently been lost to allow the establishment of an investigation committee as a minority law. [[No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] To your opposition notices, Mr Herbe – Is he still there? - No, just gone out. – He could well remember, then Mr. Herbs asked for a long time: Committee of Inquiry as a minority right! But now it is no longer negotiating herbs, but Otto Pendl – and there it is no longer. That's so simple with you. So these games between ÖVP and SPÖ, why this is not going and why the other one is guilty, they are already a little easy to say not to copy. Mr Lopatka, do you know what the two main criticisms in our country are about the GRECO report after you have looked at this report? Perhaps we can at least agree on this: No disclosure of the donations in the non-public revenue of the parties, i.e. all that happens exactly what has been and will be revealed in the ongoing investigation committee: Money that is suspected of corruption, money that has been flown out of economic interests, all of this should be disclosed. And the second main point of criticism: the rules on criminal corruption as regards Members. . So these were the two main criticisms of this GRECO report. Originally, it would be right to discuss this, because who has negotiated in the Media Transparency Act that the picture ban is coming? – Mr Petzner nodds. – These were two opposition parties, in this case the BZÖ and the Greens – The Photo and Picture Prohibition, who has negotiated that? [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] Was that in the government's draft: yes or no? Was it in the final draft: yes or no? You can understand this relatively easily. This was an interest that obviously went against the countries, and for example, from Vienna, for example, one does not need to somehow come along comically and try to say that we would block any measures! That's pretty absurd! How long have you been from the ÖVP in the government in Vienna in the Second Republic? – Long enough, I would say the last period and the period before. Therefore, question: Has Do you do anything that affected party financing? Have you done anything about the ÖVP that has affected the right to vote? – No centimeters have moved you! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] – We take note anyway that you were incapable. However, we claim that there will be a new regime at the end of this legislative period, both in terms of the right to vote and in terms of party funding. Therefore: Let us do what is required here, namely, changes for the federal and regional states! But it seems that there is more to the SPÖ now, as far as I've heard. If we negotiate this as a federal arrangement, we will take the countries with us, as in the Media Transparency Act; we will make uniform arrangements that will apply to all of Austria; and we will see what is going to happen there! Mr Herb, the word media transparency law was very good, because not all points have been implemented. For example, we of the Greens have said that we want a commitment for parties that they too publish publications in full, namely where funding is involved. But what regulation is there in relation to media transparency? – Companies controlled by the Court of Auditors must announce where they have placed advertisements. If parties take in additional funds, from companies which the Court of Auditors cannot control, that does not seem to be at all. They from the government parties ÖVP and SPÖ have prevented this from being incorporated into the law or that this also comes into the party law. – That’s how the world looks and not the other way round! It is still such that you are not ready to ensure transparency where the funds flow in. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We need a legal regime very quickly, and we need a comprehensive regulation, rules that will exclude circumvention, including in the field of publications. So this is an important point, which unfortunately is not inside in the Media Transparency Act. There are so wonderful fines when you look at that. That means, for example, that must be regular publications. If Mr Pröll goes here and, at the next election, makes the same thing as he did at the last election, namely a post-cast in the whole of Lower Austria, a unique one that does not appear under the ordinary newspaper logo, then in this case there is no transparency or publication, or anything else. – This applies to heads of course 1 : 1 as well. The loopholes you left out are still there. We'll try to close them. In any event, it is urgently necessary to come to a transparent and clear party financing law.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-23-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00143_d8e12539	Next speaker: Mr Petzner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-23-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00143_d8e12561	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I should like to begin by saying the following phrase in the direction of Mr Pilz, also due to the experience of the last few days: When it comes to pouring and adapting any people, the Lord Pilz is on the spot immediately, but when it comes to discussing, as it is today, a concrete law and doing concrete legislative work, nothing can be seen from Mr Pilz; yes, then he is not even present in the House! This is also significant for the attitude which Mr Pilz has towards Parliament, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The previous meetings of this Committee of Inquiry have already shown that all the parties to this House, including the Greens, are affected by corruption. That is why all parties need action. Similarly, this Committee of Inquiry has already shown quite clearly that, so to speak, the invading gate for corruption, in all political parties, which is too lax financing law. [[Calls of the Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek.]] This has clearly proved to be on the basis of previous results. Therefore: We can no longer work with this lax party financing law! If everyone speaks of it, ladies and gentlemen, that it is important to restore the trust of the Austrians in democracy, in Parliament, in politics, then the first, the decisive and the most important step in this direction must be to ensure an immediate strengthening of this too lax party financing law. It has already been mentioned here, which already negotiated cornerstones already exist; Mr Kogler did this. I was also involved in these negotiations at the time. There are the key points, and there is the commitment of SPÖ and ÖVP – since October 2010 – that on the basis of these key points a proposal will be transmitted to Parliament and negotiated together with Parliament and the members of the parliamentary parties. But nothing has happened since October 2010. Therefore, you must not blame the BZÖ or others, but the failure of the government parties SPÖ and ÖVP is quite clear, verifiable and also in writing, which, as the investigation committee will show, are most affected by these corruptions. [[OBJECTIVES]] I'm just showing these photos, the only photos of the hunts of Mr Mensdorff-Pouilly. [[The speaker keeps photos up to date.]] Here, along with the cabinet members of Mr Schüssel, like Mr Obenaus, always in the middle and happy with Mr. Dr. Michael Fischer, the meat washing machine in the Austrian People's Party, ladies and gentlemen, which we will also present in the Committee of Inquiry. [[Abg. Grosz: Just like the Gartlehner!]] Perhaps Mr Gartlehner can also explain whether he also participated in hunting events or whether he was jogging like his colleague with a Telekom manager or whatever. – But we will clarify everything in the Committee of Inquiry. Finally, however, it is about ensuring for the future that such a thing can no longer happen and that this intrusion for corruption is closed. And that's this tighter party financing law now. Austria is also under massive criticism by the Council of Europe, and GRECO has been mentioned several times. Austria is here on the basis of the Party Financing Act at the level of a Third World State without wanting to insult a Third World State here, but that is a fact. And there is now an urgent need for action. And today, the BZÖ has also submitted a proposal to this effect, where a crucial point is, and this is central to the fact that, of course, all the preparatory organizations from the Chamber of Workers to the trade union, from the Association of Industry to the Association of Farmers and from the Chamber of Commerce to the Socialist Youth must also be included in this reinforced party financing law. If that is not the case, then this law is not an intensification, because we now also know that the preparatory organisations play a central, problematic role here. Second point: There must be such transparency, there must be disclosure to the Court of Auditors, and there must also be the possibility that in the case of infringements of this reporting obligation, the disclosure obligation must also be subject to sanctions and penalties. And as Mr Lopatka said: This reinforced party financing law, as well as the media transparency law, must also apply to countries and communities, because especially the countries – called Lower Austria, Vienna was called – also have a massive need for action in this area. [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign]] Summary: We need stricter rules, tougher penalties and greater transparency with an enhanced party financing law. Then we will be able to regain the lost confidence of the Austrians in politics and in all the parties.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-23-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00143_d8e12646	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. We come to the vote on the request, the Constitutional Committee for Reporting on Amendment 945/A(E) by Dr Glawischnig-Piesczek, ladies and gentlemen, on ‘glass party funds’, a deadline of up to 7. This is the first time we've seen it in the European Union. Whoever is in favour of this request for deadlines, I would ask him for a sign of approval. – The application does not find a majority and is therefore rejected. [[17:11:19]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-23-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00143_d8e12685	At today's meeting, the self-employed were brought in to 1826/A(E) until 1838/A(E). Questions 10652/J to 10721/J were also raised. The next meeting of the National Council is for Wednesday, 29. February 2012, 9 a.m. and is convened in writing. This meeting is closed.
