ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e7496	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen! I'll open the 148. Parliament resolution on the proposal for a European Parliament The official protocols of 146 and 147. Meeting of 8. ==References====External links==* Official website As prevented, the MEPs are reported Mag. Cortolezis-Schlager, Waller, Dr. Ferdinand Maier, Mag. Brunner and Kaufmann-Bruckberger. Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e7530	For this meeting, the Federal Chancellery on the representation of members of the Federal Government who are present in another Member State of the European Union has made the following communication: The Federal Minister for Agriculture, Forestry, Environment and Water Management Dipl.-Ing. Nikolaus Berlakovich is now the Federal Minister of the Interior. Johanna Mikl- Leitner. [[09:07:25]] Objections against the agenda in accordance with § 50 GOG
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e7566	For the purposes of § 50 of the Rules of Procedure, Mr Bucher has raised written objections to the agenda of today's sitting which was communicated in writing. The objections concern the decommissioning of Agenda items 1 to 3 from the agenda. I am not in favour of these objections, which is why the National Council has to decide. In the debate under Rule 50 of the Rules of Procedure, I limit the speaking time to 5 minutes per speaker. It has also been agreed to shape the debate in the form of two speakers from each group. The order of speakers: first round: BZÖ, SPÖ, ÖVP, FPÖ, Green; second round: by size of the group. I therefore give the floor to Mr Bucher, Chairman of the Club. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e7603	Madam President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen! Agenda items 1 to 3 concern the so-called savings package of the Federal Government, a one-time Husch-Pufsch action of the red and black Federal Government, which has never been available in this form, but also at this speed. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Therefore, it is necessary to make sense and also serious to stop these agenda items, to reject these measures – 98 proposals from the Federal Government in total – and to renegotiate and renegotiate them once again, because all those in the Budget Committee took from the discussions of these proposals by the Federal Government that the experts agreed that these measures would not be sufficient to reorganise our budget in order to also take the right measures in the long term to make our country future-oriented in order to shape the economic location of Austria. [[Abg. Krainer: That's not true! They were obviously not there themselves!]] [[Abg. Krainer: You weren't there at all!]] All the experts have also found that the measures of the Federal Government are in motion, which are not enough, although they will be employed on a monetary basis in this savings package, but will not, in fact, bring real proceeds. It is therefore the wrong number at a wrong time, ladies and gentlemen, and therefore this package must be rejected and referred back to the start. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] In addition, this savings package is a mogel pack. Yes, even the President of the Federal Republic was surprised and criticised in a one-time short “floating up” and said that this speed does not correspond to the standard and is not usual either. If one knows that not even a week was available for the review and the preparations were insufficient, not only as regards the time factor, but also as regards the consideration of the institutions, it must be said that it is a mogel pack, which in this form is disgraceful for Austria. She is not only harmful to Austria, but disgraceful for Austria, ladies and gentlemen! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Why do I say that? – First of all, there was an ÖVP that started and said: In order to bring the budget in order, it is necessary to bring forward reforms in Austria, it is necessary to change the systems! - Yes, that's right! However, ladies and gentlemen, with this red-black package with 1. April, that is to say, immediately, the costs are put in place, the taxes and taxes are increased and the reforms are being postponed to the long-term bank. And that's the disgrace of this package that we criticize. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] A total of €9 billion of tax increases are planned, which will now be put into effect immediately, as early as next week. The Federal Council and the President of the Federal Government are now affected, as it were. That's unique at this speed. It is last-class and especially unscrupulous. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government, you already have to accept this criticism and ask yourself whether you can at all agree to this procedure, because in the form that has never happened. There must be a urgency, as far as the budgetary reorganisation and assessment of the credit rating agencies is concerned, of which we all know nothing today. In addition, the package contains points, Mrs Finanzminister, where I wonder if you can represent this with an orderly and calm conscience at all, such as the financial transaction tax, €1.5 billion, for which your colleague from the Federal Republic of Germany has already told you that she will not be possible at European level. [[Abg. Scheibner: She didn't read it!]] [[Between call of the Abg. Ing. Westenthaler.]] They put in €1.5 billion. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grandruck.]] It is also € 1 billion in payments for the Black Money accounts in Switzerland, which you want to tax. I refer to these two points alone as an argument to ask you whether you can reconcile this with a calm conscience and whether you can represent it in a serious way. You know very well that these two numbers are not right, that this is inconceivable, and that you're showing a scam. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, back to the start with this scam package, with this mogel pack – renegotiate for Austria, namely reforms. We need system changes and no federal government that is constantly dancing around us!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e7718	Mr Delegate Dr. Matznetter is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e7739	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! Mr Klubobmann Bucher, if something is shameful, then this is the way in which you, in an extremely critical situation throughout Europe, have been trying in this difficult situation of the Republic to change party-political change here. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Stop it!]] This government is acting responsibly in this situation. How much that's just show you can see that you weren't in the budget committee. It might have happened if you had come to the Committee on Budgets yourself, Mr Klubobmann, to discuss there in order not to bring back things that have not been said. On the matter itself: We have seen since 2010 how Member States of the European Union, first of all Greece, have become increasingly difficult to make their daily payments at all. Why? – Because the refinancing on the financial markets, which worked without complaint until after the crisis in 2008, has become a reality. Only: Then something happens that we don't want to believe in our country: Then experts enter and determine which policy is being made in the country. [[Abg. May. Stefan: We have to be against that! Who's gonna let that happen?]] In Greece today is the troika that tells Parliament what it has to decide. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] We will not allow that in Austria, and therefore we are acting today and now – and not like you by slowing down and slowing down. [[Abg. May. Stefan: Who's been involved in this? That's incredible!]] [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] With these measures, we ensure that this country is able to act first, remains sovereign, and third, is in a situation where we will continue to be among the best EU Member States: with the lowest unemployment, a good growth, in terms of public finances. That is precisely what this government is doing, which is doing correctly and in a way that is among the best in Europe. [[Abg. Bucher: What is correct?]] Look at the other savings packages! There are mass taxes, there are cuts in the social state, there are measures that slow down the economy. [[Abg. Strache: We already had them, the cuts!]] We don't have all of this in this savings package, but we're restoring the budget to a balanced budget by 2016, and we don't have any cuts that make us protesting people on the street. [[Abg. Booker: You know that now?]] We don't have a mass tax burden. We make a gap in the area of real estate taxation. We're sharpening group taxation. We see that there is less willingness to cancel by collecting that fee. We see that, with adjustments in the social system, we are giving suggestions for the rise of the retirement age. We want to ensure that I-pensionists under 50 years of age can not simply be seen as “no longer part of work life,” but Rudolf Hundstorfer, with his measures, ensures that we will do everything we can to account for these people in employment. That means we save I-pension when the person is in employment again. This means that this person then pays taxes and social security and makes permanent contributions to integrating people and ensuring that households are in order. This is the best we can do in the current situation. And the accusation that we are making it fast is absurd at all, because only if we can act quickly is the signal strong enough that we clarify together with the decision-making process via fiscal package and ESM: We are fulfilling the European commitments, in a way that we are expanding and not restricting the social state, in a way by which we are strengthening and not weakening the economy. And this very kind of policy proves that one can also make a reasonable budgetary policy without burdening the wide range of the population. That's exactly what we prove with this package. And if you do not agree to this as BZÖ, prove only one: They are not suitable to bear responsibility for this country! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bucher.]] Because not to agree and thus endanger the country is a contribution that excludes you from exactly this responsibility. In this sense, ladies and gentlemen, one also recognizes what this action is to do with an objection debate. We have a roadmap – it is true that the President of the Federal Republic has more time to do – which is in agreement with the office of President of the Presidency. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] And we have set the dates for the Federal Council. It's a good package. It is right that we act today, and it is proof that we have a government that does something for the country in times of crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e7879	Next speaker: Mr Jakob Auer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e7903	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! No matter how you do it: From the point of view of my colleague Bucher it is wrong, sometimes it is too late, today it goes too fast. To the excitement of my colleague Bucher: to sell wild gestures, loud arguments and thus the attempt to make a constructed reality credible. And this attempt, Mr Bucher, has failed once again! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, why this largest reform package in the Second Republic? – It must be done to slow down public debt, reduce the deficit in order to reduce public debt to 70 percent in relation to GDP by 2016. Ladies and gentlemen! This is not an emergency package, as in Greece, but a timely reform package in order to be fit for the future. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Recovering Triple A is important because the loss of Triple A was and is a clear warning. At the latest, everyone understood that profound action must be taken, because a good credit quality of Austria means less money for loans, more money for investment, for education, for climate protection, apart from the bond of financial markets, as well as freedom and scope for national policies. It is also important to secure the future in order to keep pensions sustainable. We have spent a long time raising the actual retirement age a little, and this time we will succeed by four years by 2020. To work a year longer or to retire a year later means a savings in the budget of around 1.4 billion; this is a sustainable structural reform, a sustainable renovation and ultimately also the gain of room for this national budget. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] If Mr Bucher said that this was a Husch-Fuch-Action, then I oppose that it was an incredible work done by this government, an incredible negotiating and working performance on the part of the Coalition, from the staff of the Ministries to the Members of this House. [[Call the BZÖ: No one believes that!]] I can recall the development of the package: Starting the intensive negotiations before Christmas – while some are constantly talking about the need to work during the holidays, the government negotiating teams have worked, ladies and gentlemen. You worked on Christmas. And the government's goal was ambitious, because it needed to enter into force with 1. ==References== [[New calls to the BZÖ.]] ==References== On 17 February this year, the political agreement of the Coalition was presented. The first laws of this package were sent in review on February 6, and the decision was taken in the Council of Ministers on 6 February. March. The entire roadmap – and this is interesting – was agreed for the treatment of the package in Parliament. The timetable was established in Parliament, between the parties, and the special session on 8 October. March, the Budgetary Hearing, the Budgetary Committee on 14 and 15. March. There was no debate about extending, not a desire, but it was a normal process – yes, as a budget committee chairman I even wondered that the issues of the opposition were relatively moderate and time-limited, it was all in the best understanding. Today, a few weeks later, colleague Bucher suddenly comes to the conclusion that it was too fast! There you could ask him why he suddenly wants to turn around just before the goal. Why? – Show responsibility, Mr. Bucher! [[Calls and calls between representatives of ÖVP and BZÖ.]] What for many was not possible, from his point of view not at all: This package will hold, ladies and gentlemen, because the forecasts of the economic researchers, the professional pessimists, once again do not show the truth. [[Abg. Bookbooker: The estimate of Greece, estimate rescue shield...!]] It is visible that the economy is quite positive, we are delighted about it. We have excellent companies, we have excellent employees in these companies, the order situation is much better than predicted by some. I'm just showing you a small extract of media coverage. [[The speaker keeps a newspaper article up to date.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bucher, who also keeps a newspaper article up to date.]] The economic engine is starting to jump, we are looking forward to Lenzing investing 350 million in Upper Austria this year in the modernisation of the plant, the VAMED, the former Voest subsidiary, reports on great order books, andritz as well. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] [[Calls and calls between representatives of ÖVP and BZÖ.]] Mr Bucher, the economy, politics has set the right framework. Voices You agree with this package, it is the right measure for the future!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e8019	Mr Dr. Strutz is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e8041	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! I have to tell my colleague. Ask the following question: Which country do you actually live in when you get out of here and claim that the economy is starting to jump and everything is a real wonder? [[Intervocations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Interference of Federal Minister Dr. Fekter.]] We support the objections, because we have to say quite clearly that there has been a dramatic turn in the last few days, and it turns out that this load package presented by the Federal Government is not right at the front and the back. It is based on false figures, wrong expectations are being met, and the departure, Mrs. Federal Minister, which you brought to Switzerland in Germany, was a sounding blow, was a blamage that Austria did not deserve in this form. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter: I don't know!]] There has already been a reason why the President-in-Office warned of the hurry to warn that this largest tax package, which will meet the Austrians, is being whipped through here in Parliament. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] Of course, the Federal Government is interested in the fact that it is not being discussed that the measures cannot be examined in depth, because then it would quickly become apparent that the figures presented to us do not agree that the burdens are much worse than expected that the next savings package is already in danger after a few months and that the dramatic impact on the labour market is still greater than expected. It is not that the economy is being boosted, but your own institutions – the Chamber of Workers, the Austrian Trade Union Confederation – say in their comments on this savings package: Ten thousand jobs will cost this load package. [[The speaker shall keep a document up to date.]] That's the truth. Not even a month, dear Ladies and gentlemen, the so-called best savings package, as the Federal Chancellor has quoted it, has kept. After you have received a clear departure from Germany and Switzerland for your plans to consolidate this budget, you have to say that today – and that is why we support the objections – a hole of €2.5 billion. First: You said you expected a tax agreement with Switzerland. The answer of the Swiss Minister for Finance, Mrs Bundesminister, was: [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter: Finance Minister in!]] This is not even half as important to us as the tax agreement with Germany! and the negotiations with Germany have not even begun. It must be said that this tax agreement is actually a privilege for the super-rich, because who has parked his money in Switzerland? [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] Who gets a estate now? Who can free himself from the punishment of the Ministry of Finance? – Not Mr and Mrs. Österreicher, who invested her money in the construction savings sector, no, it is the super-rich who have their money in Switzerland, which are covered here by you. [[Call the SPÖ:Grasser!]] That's right! Exactly the Grasser is now protected by the Federal Minister, as a former party colleague. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Cheerfulness at the SPÖ.]] - Thank you for the call! What has happened to your financial transaction tax, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ? – The German Finance Minister Schäuble made it quite clear: This project is not enforceable. That is, you budget in this tax package revenue that is not enforceable, which is not realistic. That is, although we actually have Easter now, this package you present to the House today is actually a letter to the Christian child with wishes that will never be fulfilled. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This means that €2.5 billion will have to be added. Mrs Finanzminister, Federal Chancellor, you have the courage to say here: We must submit a new load package to the Austrians in just a few months, we must continue to turn on the control screw at the latest after the next election! as you have done so far. We don't play with the liberals. We want and demand those reforms that are necessary without burdening the Austrians. If you finally implement those proposals presented to you by the Court of Auditors in a comprehensive brochure, then the Austrians will not be asked to check out such gross measures!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e8161	Mr Walser has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e8182	Madam President. Estimated members on the government bank! High house! Mr Strutz, it is already very courageous if you show up here because of the protection of the super-richs is guaranteed by the current government. It was you who, together with the ÖVP in the black and blue government, encouraged this protection, it was you who have been responsible for the Minister of Finance Grasser and put it in his office, and it is you who are primarily responsible for the situation we now have in Austria. [[Assembly with the Greens and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] There is also FPÖ everywhere where corruption is in it – that is the lesson of the last months that we have to draw. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: Are you a history professor?]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] If we have heard that the timetable here, Mr Auer, has gone through with agreement, then it has a little bit of something for itself. However, I can remind you – and in my home country of Vorarlberg the house mind is repeatedly quoted, also by politicians of your group: If we try the house mind a little bit and decide here a law, a timetable, a budget path that we already know is not going to keep, then there is obviously a thick worm in it somewhere. And if you want to tell us today that this is forward-looking, then it will probably not be possible to understand anyone listening to you, because what we decide today is not forward-looking, but it is reversed, it is socially unfair, it is unbalanced, it is not in the back and in the front with what you have promised people. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] €2.5 billion – we have already heard this, experts assume that there are still more – are already missing, and that is in a law that is being passed today! It can't be absurd. And when we read the “Press” today, we see that Rainer Nowak calls the whole “a Potemkinian savings package”, and he is quite right with that. Nowak asks: Fragility or inability? – You can choose what you prefer. Is it a disease to the population that you offer us here, or is it inability? I'm afraid it's a mixture of it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Jury.]] At the same time as what you supply to us here, for example, you decided to buy service cars at €8 million. On the one hand, you want to cut down on the parliament, buy 4 to 5 million, and next to it you wanted – Peter Pilz has prevented it, Peter Pilz has knocked you a little on your fingers – buy luxury boxes, with massage options in the seats, 6 cylinders that drive 200 km/h on the motorway that you can't drive in Austria at all. [[Interference by Federal Minister Dr. Fekter]] Ladies and gentlemen, social balance looks different. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz.]] And if you understand this budget as a principle of hope – according to the motto: it will go somehow – I can only tell you: It won't go. It will not go especially for those who need it most. For the beneficiaries of the smallest pensions, for the beneficiaries of small incomes, it will not go. And, of course, you are doing what the FPÖ masterly dominates: They are promoting an indifferent act against the EU and against this European Community, which we would now need as urgently as a consolidation community. [[Abg. Kickl: Chastisement!]] [[Cheerfulness and intermediate calls at the FPÖ]] I would also like to remind you of what your wife's minister, Mikl-Leiter, meant: “With the millions! Come on, Zaster! Come with the Marie!” – That’s exactly what you forgive. It is precisely the millionaires who are not affected, and they are being left out in this savings package. So please a little more honesty to the population! We have put forward proposals on how to bring in the money, for example through a solid administrative reform. We agreed to your ministers in the Constitutional Committee when they presented a package to us, by the way, together with the liberals and the BZÖ, all five parties were for it. We could save hundreds of millions! You do not trust to take the appropriate action against Mr Pröll against your princes. Where the princes have the saying, there's a break. So: The population is ready, we are ready, no one has anything against reasonable saving, but it must be sensible, it must be socially balanced, then you would have us at your side.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e8314	Mrs Lueger is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e8337	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! The Federal Government has presented the Stability Package 2012 to 2016 – not because the workers have lived over their conditions, not because of the expansion of the social state, because it has increased evenly to economic growth, and not because we have disproportionately high administrative costs, but rather because it is the direct consequence of the economic crisis caused by the banks and the financial markets. What did the Federal Government do in 2008? – The Federal Government has put in place offensive measures to stimulate and support economic growth in order to secure jobs. What was the result? – Yes, of course, public debt has increased, and as soon as we have a new debt and once our debt ratio increases enormously, we are again dependent on these financial markets, and we have to act. And in order to enable our independence from the financial markets, there is now this stability programme. We rely on fair revenue, on socially sound structural measures, on the closure of justice gaps, where the rich are very likely to be involved, and on demanding a share, above all, of those who are and can contribute to this. What did black and blue contribute to that at the time? [[Abg. Scheibner: You will bring that in 29 years!]] [[Counter-call of the Abg. May. Gaßner.]] State revenue has fallen because, while workers have to pay more and more taxes, in contrast, the entrepreneurs with tax gifts – once again by Karl-Heinz Grasser – are rewarded with a reduction in corporate tax or with the introduction of group taxation. [[Interlocutory call to the ÖVP]] From this alone – and this can be broken down on the tongue – we lack €4.66 billion of revenue that we need to bring in in addition, and they cannot be removed through social savings. One thing was not at all possible for us as a SPÖ, that was for us – to describe it with the beautiful New High German word – a no-go: We did not want a purely expenditure-side consolidation, because the workers did not owe anything. We did not want to have any one-time effects through privatisation, because we would have had money there once, but state enterprises would have gone. We have no increase in mass taxes, we have no increase in VAT, as is possible in other European countries. And there are above all things you can always walk with, no zero wage round for pensioners. We want fair revenue, closure of tax gaps. In addition, very, very good points are included in our Stability Pact. We need sensible savings measures, but we also need good offensives for the labour market, especially for older workers, we need offensives for education – where we don't save a cent – no, the education billions are added – we need offensive measures for care and, above all, for research. It can only be our goal that we remain at the forefront of Europe, in terms of employment and growth, that we remain independent of the financial markets and that fiscal consolidation must be social, fair and balanced. This package must not be a social shatter, not saved on the back of the poorest of the poor and not a job-hazarding caputt saving. Yes, it is right, the financial transaction tax is currently a huge discussion project in Europe. Yes, it is also true that the German Finance Minister Schäuble expressed his concerns. Nevertheless, what is the financial transaction tax? – Financial transaction tax is a local extraordinary tax on financial transactions in shares and derivatives. [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: But she's not coming!]] An important measure is simply to ensure that the causes of this financial and economic crisis make their contribution and secure it, because highly risky financial transactions become unattractive. [[Abg. Dr. Strutz: That's not true!]] It is not true that there is also the possibility within the EU, because even the EU Commission – perhaps you listen carefully to me now – has set the financial transaction tax in its 2014–2020 budget estimate. [[Abg. Scheibner: That's a contradiction, isn't it?]] The Stability Pact is there to achieve for the future that we say yes to debt reduction without endangering employees without endangering economic growth. We must secure them and support economic growth. We need this package now and now – and that is why we will vote in favour.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e8435	Mr Amon is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e8456	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I'm a little surprised by the objections that come here today. [[Abg. Oillingers: Me too!]] But you will not be surprised, Mr Oellinger, that we do not join the objections. Somehow it's strange that the opposition says this once, nothing goes on, it's all too slow – the usual Lamento. Now everything is going too fast again, the pace is too high, you couldn't convince yourself in the depth of whether that's all useful measure. [[Abg. Scheibner: That's both right!]] So somehow, the united opposition has to consider what it wants. This government is acting, this government is trying to put state finances back on healthy legs – and that is what it is all about, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] It's about us opening up a little bit of the future again. Mrs Lueger has just meant that there were fewer government revenue under the black and blue government, and that is quite right. There were fewer government revenue, because at that time of course one was trying to reduce the tax and tax rate. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I hope that a common stated objective of all parties remains that the tax and tax rate should be kept as low as possible to keep the burden on the Austrian population as low as possible. This must be the stated objective of a sensible tax policy, ladies and gentlemen. [[New congratulations to the ÖVP.]] Mr Strutz, I have to say that I can't understand this almost thiefic joy that the negotiations with Switzerland to arrive at money that lies there, but if not tangible, will not work. I don't understand. There must be something like a positive patriotism with you. If there is black money there and the Federal Minister for Finance tries everything to get the necessary tax money there too, then this is to be supported and not to criticise. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] No one saves the super empires, but it's about the exact opposite. It is also about catching those who may have transferred black money abroad, because one also comes to this money, that those also pay their corresponding share of the tax benefit. That is why, Mr Strutz. The overall savings package is socially balanced. If you listen to the population, you will notice that the majority of the population of this savings package is involved. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: 85 percent against!]] I'm surprised that this isn't happening here in the house, that the opposition actually says unisono: That doesn't make sense, it's not g'sheer, that's not how we do it! The population is much more aware that the population has made a great effort to link a socially balanced package of savings to ensure that everyone is able to contribute to this savings package according to their potential. This is accepted in the population. [[Abg. Dr. Strutz: Who are you talking to?]] The population sees the need for this savings package to open up a new future for our children and children, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Also the roadmap, which is now being criticized – everything is going too fast – is to say: The roadmap has been adopted unanimously, with the agreement of the President-in-Office of the Council. Nothing goes too fast! I'm telling you what the real point is. It has been “enoughly paid”, Mr Bucher, you have been infected again. – Yes, it was spent enough, it was spent too much, Mr. Bucher! It has been cut enough, it has been delayed enough, now, ladies and gentlemen, it is about us acting. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] We have launched a package of savings and reform, which, for the most part, contributes to the restructuring of the public budget. Approximately 77 percent of the total measures will be spent on expenditure, and only 23 percent will be used on revenue. We would have preferred to have done this on the expenditure side at all, but that was not possible. I think the savings package is socially balanced. It is a savings package that ensures that the economy is not strangled, and this also finds international recognition. I can only say that the Federal Government is on the right track with this action, opening up a certain future for our children and children.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e8572	Next speaker: Mr Vilimsky. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e8593	Madam President. Such a fairy tale, as Mr Amon has now told us, has not heard this House for a long time. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You stand here and say that this package is socially balanced!Unknown term type: "%s".? – They lift the trust protection in building savings, in the provision of the future! For real estate, the real speculators now have to pay no more 50 percent tax, but 25 percent tax. I don't know where you keep contact with the population, because this savings package is anything but socially balanced! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I would also like to give my colleagues from Social Democracy a little bit along the way, especially Mr Matznetter, who, after his remarks, left us again. He said it was tragic how in Greece EU troika has invaded and all democratic processes have been removed. It must be remembered who this troika is, for example, the European Central Bank, and member of the Council for Austria is no less than the former socialist financial spokesman Novotny, or the European Commission, where Austria also has a representative who goes along this path. They are guilty of this undemocratic development, as it manifests itself in Greece! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In the European Central Bank, for example, former Goldman Saxe Bankers Draghi and Monti from Italy are sitting. But to return to the timetable against which objections are raised today: Of course, one must be against any objection with all vehemence, because just as you whip through it, as you can, by eliminating all the deadlines, which even the Federal President encourages, it is not decent and unworthy. [[Are Members calling Amon and Head: Against the objection?- Oh, my God!]] I would like to give you a sentence from Otto Bismarck: “The less people know how to make sausages and laws, the better they sleep at night.” [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Not at all! You can look into the salami at any time!]] The way in which you make laws in which you take Parliament into your grip to carry out an unsocial saving course is inappropriate! You must never forget what is actually behind the entire savings package. They conjure up the world crisis, everyone hangs in it. I'm just asking one thing: What about Norway and the Norwegian crown? What about Sweden and the Swedish crown? What about Switzerland and the Swiss franc? - They're not all in the crisis, they're not! Whoever is in it is the EU countries and the US with the dollar. Anyone who reads the international newspapers today knows that it is already openly reported about the possibility of a collapse as regards the euro. In the “Economic Week”, you can read that the euro has been a misconstruction from the beginning and that there may now be a collapse, that no single euro, which is recorded here today as a burden that is sold to people as a rescue package, lands somewhere in need of people or in people who need help. This whole billion-dollar culture, which you have raised, ends up primarily with the banks, with the credit industry, to finance a whitish speculation policy that has taken place in recent years and is now threatening to run out of the row. They say: Power everywhere. – Please don’t forget, it doesn’t work everywhere! They say: This is all so horrendous as to what this development is about, we must work together to bring about a rescue. – It's not like that! They serve as social democrats who run around and conjure up distribution justice, none other than the billionaires who make highly lucrative transactions in the field of bonds. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In order not only to provide you with freedom of argument in this objection debate, I would like to give you something from today’s “press” on the way: “It is either a unique naughtiness or a very clear evidence of complete political inability. Both represent a real problem for this federal government and the population's trust base, which has already been heavily shaken, becomes executive and legislative: Today, the representatives of the Federal Government are to decide on a consolidation package, which is partly obsolete.” So it is not just us and the opposition parties that are warning against this course that you want to decide today. With regard to the non-social implications of this load package, you can only appeal to you: Back to the start with this load package! True to the parliamentary procedure, keep in mind what is constitutionally well-known in Austria, so that it does not come to a cry by the President if you decide on your international bank rescue packages, and do not lose sight of the fact that this House urgently needs an upgrade and not a permanent devaluation of how it comes from your policy! Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e8669	Mrs Mag. Schwentner is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e8690	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ministers – it's nice that you're all here! Mr Amon, I find it interesting that you want to know the black money in Switzerland taxed. I would think that this should apply on the one hand to every black money and that on the other hand, there should be no black money at all. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] In general, I have to give my previous speakers – not the government parties – the right to: The processes related to the consolidation package are more than questionable. Not only the Federal President is rightly dissatisfied with this, we too have been confronted with 101 novels that we had to whip through in 21 days, and now we are standing there with a package that does not hold what it promises. It is particularly interesting, for example, that we should decide or carry a financial transaction tax today, which will not exist. We know from yesterday that the Minister of Finance in Germany says that there will be no such thing. So how can we decide something – and so I am in the fairy tale of Mr. Vilimsky – how should we decide something that is at most like a fairy tale like perhaps “The Emperor’s New Dresses”? How should we decide things that will not exist? It is not only about the tax agreement with Switzerland, but also about the financial transaction tax. What are we gonna do? – Please explain this to us once during the day. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I also find your attitude interesting – I am now speaking to the government parties, especially my previous speakers, Matznetter and Auer, – that you are “eating out” as the great defenders of the consolidation package. I do not see this as your task, and I do not think you should see it yourself as your task to be the government's leaders and agents. You should exercise control of that, I would like it to be to a greater extent than you have done so so so far, especially in this regard. “Social justice” has now been addressed several times, keywords that have also fallen off the side of the government parties: Please show us again! I would just like to give you one example: The solidarity contribution for the top earners is €440 million. And what has the government recently issued for the municipal credit, which has become completely engrossed? - 800 million, double! Where is there social balance, especially since we also know that this will continue in the future? Explain You're telling the people – it's not clear to me! You should explain how you get it. This package is not socially balanced! Another thing: This package also does not correspond to the balance between the sexes. I am glad that the Minister for Women has just come and the Minister for Finance is also present, because you all know that gender budgeting has been set down in the Constitution, but this savings package has not been subject to these criteria. No one has controlled the effects of the austerity measures on women and men. But we all know that this will be the case. There is a very – sad – beautiful example from Styria. In the future, countries will be forced to save, and in the Styria, the reform partners will show us very dramatically, which is what this means especially for women. This means that not only massive savings in the social field, but also the replacement of Article 15a agreements that have long existed, such as regarding the free kindergarten year. To whose burdens does that happen? - At the expense of the women in the Styria. Savings in the care sector, where they are active, in family benefits when they care for their families, if they are not socially well placed and can no longer afford to send their children to kindergarten if they have to care for their children themselves – all this is happening to women. This shows us the Styria, and it is to be feared that all other countries that will be forced to save in the future will do similarly. That is why I ask you to explain to me once again today where there will be social balance in these points I mentioned – apart from appropriate structural measures at all! There's no health insurance, there's no pension insurance, there's no school administration. That means you haven't gotten any of that where you could burn your fingers at your clientel, and that can't be it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e8759	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Westenthaler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e8781	Madam President. Dear Members of the Federal Government! We have to say what is planned in this Parliament, because most people do not know that: Today the bill is to be adopted, and on Friday at 1 p.m., the Federal Council will open its meeting; it is scheduled for this time. We do not yet know how long the Federal Council will negotiate, perhaps there will be special actions, urgent questions, you do not know, but that can take up to the night. The proposal may then be decided at some point in the night; the President of the Federal Republic of Germany may be presented this law on Saturday for breakfast and then have time to sign exactly until midnight, because on 1 January. April, it is scheduled to enter into force on Sunday at zero. You, Mr Amon, and the ÖVP say that is normal, this is a normal legislative process. – That’s a scandal, otherwise nothing you’re going over the stage! [[BZÖ and FPÖ are welcome.]] I am already very excited whether the President of the Federal Government takes himself seriously, whether he is playing this displeasure, this weekend action, with which a bill of billions of burdens is passed by the way, a law which is not quite dense. Because this savings package is not quite dense, it ends up at all corners and ends: Financial transaction tax, Switzerland agreements up to the Placebos in the health reform, in the savings of the countries – it ends up in the back and front. This government, especially the Minister of Finance, the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, but also so many Members, now fled to the science fiction, to the suggestion, to the Autosuggestion. I've looked at myself in a health counsellor, what autosuggestion really is – I quote, and that's very important, because that's exactly the picture you're now delivering from the government: Autosuggest means that subconsciousness is trained with self-hypnosis for so long, in order to necessarily believe in something, even if it is not real. It goes on: In the Autosuggestion, the same formal idea – transaction tax, Switzerland agreement, I add – is repeated with mental exercises for so long until it becomes a solid part of the unconscious thinking process. As long as you make self-hypnosis, speak up until you believe it yourself, although it is far from reality. That's your Autosuggestion policy! [[BZÖ and FPÖ are welcome.]] Mr Amon has already taken this picture. He came to the speaker's desk today and suggested himself and uttered the conviction out of the full throes of the chest: People are behind this savings package! He said that. People carry it, is the quote. Mr Amon, all the surveys of the past few weeks, no matter which institution, no matter which medium, have spoken of two thirds and more against this savings package, because it is unfair, socially unfair and unsustainable and unfair! These are people's opinions in all surveys. People don't carry that at all, this non-tight savings package. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] For the first time, another taboo has also happened in Austrian domestic policy. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government and the government parties, you should really consider this, that is very, very serious: For the first time in Austria, the financial policy is being determined foreignly! That's the truth. The financial policy in this country is being decided by another, because you no longer have it in your hands, because you yourself have entered positions in the savings package, which you alone cannot enforce, because you depend on the influence of other countries, on a European financial transaction tax, on Switzerland et cetera. That's not an ordinary economy. To this end, Rainer Nowak’s quote in the press, which has not yet been quoted: “SPÖ and ÖVP thank you today, Wednesday, from”. Both today, both political groups and all Members of both political groups thank you. And Nowk continues: ‘They shall decide on measures whose concrete implementation shall determine others.’ And that's what it's all about. Now we're back at the Autosuggestion: I've been talking to myself for so long – by self-hypnosis – what's coming, just: It's not coming. This is also true in various other psychological thinking processes. When you shoot Hornberger, for example, you always talk, there's something coming, and it's not coming. In reality, what you're delivering here is a dramatic spectacle of failure that runs through all areas: Science fiction, autosuggestion, even fairy tales. Mrs Finanzminister, write In the future, you'll have to write your fairy tale books – because you can wish for something, you can write in what you want, it doesn't have to match reality – but don't write savings packages and no more budgets!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e8873	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We shall proceed to the vote. I would like to ask those Members who want to take account of the objections, i.e. to vote in favour of the decommissioning of Agenda items 1 to 3 from the agenda, for a sign. – This is the minority and therefore rejected. The agenda for today's sitting, which has been communicated in writing, remains valid. [[10:01:31]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e8918	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e9159	I announce that this meeting will be transferred live to ORF 2 to 1 p.m. and ORF III. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e9179	The debate on points 1 to 3, 6 to 8, 9 to 11 and 12 to 14 of the agenda is proposed. On the other hand, is there an objection? - That's not the case. Request for a brief debate on the response to the request 10262/AB
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e9203	Before entering the agenda, I shall inform you that the request made pursuant to § 92 of the Rules of Procedure is to hold a brief debate on the reply 10262/AB to Question 10372/J by Dr Rosenkranz, colleagues on ‘sate discounts’ for advertising inseracy – negotiating skills of the BKA in case of remuneration’ by Mr Bundeskanzler. This brief debate takes place in accordance with § 57a para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure after completion of the agenda, but not later than 15 a.m. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e9225	Let's go into the agenda. Consensus on the duration of the debate was reached between the members of the presidential conference. Accordingly, a day block time of 8 ‘Vienna hours’ has been agreed, so that the following speaking times arise: SPÖ and ÖVP per 112 minutes, FPÖ 100 minutes, Green 88 minutes and BZÖ 84 minutes. The following explanatory statement was agreed for the draft budget committee: A round of speakers with 10 minutes each, then the President of the Federal Chancellor and then Mr. Vice-Chancellor with 10 minutes each, another round of speakers with 8 minutes, then 6 minutes, then a member of the government of the ÖVP 7 minutes, a member of the government of the SPÖ 7 minutes and a further round of speakers with 4 minutes each. In the first two rounds, the call of the speakers takes place in accordance with the principle of counter/pro, then in accordance with the strength of the political groups. The President-in-Office is asked to ensure that speaking times are strictly complied with, and before the end of the final round, after consultation with the club presidents, he shall distribute the remaining speaking time to the five political groups in such a way that all political groups will be able to speak evenly during the television season. Any actual corrections will only be made after the television time on ORF 2. Furthermore, according to § 57 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure, to limit the speaking time of each Member of Parliament to 10 minutes per debate without a club membership. We shall now proceed to the vote on the speaking time just presented. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to a sign. – This is unanimously accepted. [[10:04:27]] 1. Point Report of the Budget Committee on the Government Template (1680, e.g._Other Organiser The Federal Act, with which the Public Service Promotion Act 1984, the Act 1988, the German Federal Tax Act 1988, the German Tax Act 1994, the Basic Tax Act 1987, the Health and Social Aid Act, the Mineral Oil Tax Act 1995, the Assessment Act 1955, the Federal Tax Code, the Federal Act on the levying of agricultural and forestry holdings, the Stability Tax Act, the Construction Savings Act and the Pensions Act (1. Stability Act 2012 – 1. Staff 2012) (1707 e.g.) 2. Point Report of the Budget Committee on the Government Template (1685, e.g._Other Organiser Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Protection of the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Protection of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Seas and the Law on the Law on the Law of the Law of the Seas and the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law of the Law on the Law of the Seas of the Seas, the Seas, the Law on the Law on the Law on the Seas, the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law of the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law of the Law on the Law on the Seas of the Law on the Law on the Law on the Seas of the Law on the Law of the Seas of the Seas of the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Seas of the Seas Seas of the Law on the Seas of the Seas of the Law for the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on Stability Act 2012 – 2. Stabeg 2012) (1708 a.k.a.) 3rd. Point Report of the Budget Committee on the Government Template (1681, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law amending the Federal Finance Act 2012 and the Federal Financial Framework Act 2012 to 2015 and the Federal Financial Framework Act 2013 to 2016 is passed (1709 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e9313	We shall therefore proceed to points 1 to 3 of the agenda on which the debate will be held under one. There was no oral reporting. First of all, Mr Klubobmann Strache. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e9340	Madam President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen in front of the televisions! We have already had to experience and suffer a lot, Mr. Federal Chancellor and Mr. Vice-Chancellor, but I ask you quite openly: Is it not embarrassing for you that your self-named best savings package has not even kept up to today's decision-making process and has already broken out essential points, such as the financial transaction tax or the Swiss agreement? It is obviously not embarrassing to you – and this has been demonstrated by the debate on objections – because today, when representatives of SPÖ and ÖVP come out and live through a process in which one finds out and says no, that is, nothing happened at all, and it will continue, and we will continue to insist on it, although all the real processes show something else, then it is somehow – and otherwise, one cannot call it – a certain pile that you have caused yourself, and now the budget pot is sitting on your head, which you have caused, because that is not to be maintained. That's where you have to be honest. Mrs Finanzminister said in the press hour – I quote her – that: If I had not received the financial transaction tax and the agreement with Switzerland, we would have had to burden the Austrian population even more. [[Between call of the Abg. Ing. Westenthaler.]] – This is the quote from the “press hour” of the Minister of Finance. So she admits: The remaining parts of the burden budget are strains, and the two parts that have been tried to catch up on other levels are now essentially broken away, and there are future pressures on the Austrian population. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Where will you bring the €3 billion for the hole that now appears in the budget – and where you are still living – in the future, and where will there be the new burdens? – Of course, They are operating again with tax increases because you are not ready to finally implement sustainable administrative and structural reforms. The Completely reminds me of a Pippi Langstroff song that sings “Two times three makes four, widewhite, and three makes nine, I make the world, wide-wide as it pleases me.” [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Gaßner: Sing, please!]] This is the woman's Minister of Finance, who lives the motto, and that's exactly how salopp is being done. [[Cheerfulness and applause at the FPÖ.]] There's the impression – and if it wasn't so serious, you'd really have to laugh at it – just before Easter you'll get a load package in which loud lazy eggs are inside. Otherwise, we cannot describe what is finally happening today. I say that it is embarrassing enough if your savings package has already been put in place before the decision-making process in Austria. Of course, it is embarrassing enough if then friendly governments from the neighbouring countries – such as the German Federal Government and the Swiss Federal Government – let you know that what you are planning is not real at all, will not be possible and is not desired at all. And then you go here and don't recognize it and believe that if you stay there and if you keep on claiming that this is going to come anyway, then it will be taken over and believed in in the population as well. So you can already say that just this savings package is somehow imploded – otherwise you can't say it at all – in the literal sense, and it's also a proof that you've had a snap idea with your project as far as the Swiss agreement is concerned. Secretary-General Harald Vilimsky mentioned it briefly today. They want to offer the super empires in Switzerland that have brought their black money accounts there: Friends, report to you, and then we'll find a low amount that you'll be paying in a little bit, and we'll help you. But in the case of the small people in Austria – with the building-saving premiums, with the provision of the future – the pot is of course fully involved. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] There, where little comes out anyway, where there are already little profits, where you have to work with construction savings in the long term, you get into it and take half away from them. That's your social policy understanding. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] The tax sinners who have brought their money to Switzerland should be able to buy themselves out of criminal proceedings, which is obviously the social competence you live. As a result of the loss of the financial transaction tax and the tax agreement with Switzerland, which went smoothly, a total of €3 billion is missing in the budget. This hole is just there, and the question is: Who's gonna pay for this? Where will you take the next measures? Will you finally be prepared to put on ice and freeze the EU's net contributions, as we liberals call for? Maybe you'll consider: Well, there's liability packages that may be beating once. We pay €2.3 billion annually to Brussels – we go here and freeze these €2.3 billion, we place them on an account. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber.]] If at some point the Rescue Screen's liability were to be hit, we would have a bit different and would not have to burden the Austrians again with our budget and new tax increases in the future. – Would be a possibility! Or the Kyoto Protocol: Punishment payments amounting to € 700 million per year. Yes, absurd! Absorbed! Go here and do what the Canadians have done, namely to say, we are getting out of this protocol. That's a nonsense! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This is a nonsense if one has today the most environmentally friendly steel production in the world as in the case of the Voest, and then due to such absurd contracts of the Voest 60 million € are to be paid fines and the site is at risk. The Voest has already considered whether to invest in the Austrian site at all, and is considering going to South America and investing there. This is disastrous for the economic and labour market and the production site of Austria. There must be the courage to say: Let us question such absurd contracts, and let us get out of here! There's a lot of possibilities there. Social security funds: How many years have we been discussing and we call on the liberals to reduce the more than 20 social security institutions to one to two?- Oh, my God! [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Tadler.]] End-of-life savings potential: A federal uniform hospital plan finally belongs – not implemented to this day; Financing the health system from a pot, and not so today from various areas, where no one knows each other and where, of course, – I say – unnecessary funds disappear in a deep black hole. There are many, many possibilities that the Court of Auditors has identified, where you are not willing, because you say: Pah, at our red-black administrative bacon we serve, we are not ready to start. But when it comes to the Austrian wallets, we are here quickly! 46 percent tax rate, here we are in the top field of Europe, maximum tax rate! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Header]] There you are ready to put on the control screw at any time. By the way, we also see this in Vienna under red-green: When it comes to increases in fees, one is imaginative without ending, and the tax and tax increase screw is turned without end, instead of finally being ready to dismantle in one's own area – the red-black administrative speck. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But that is exactly what can be found in this load and savings package. I've already mentioned the EFSF rescue screen: 21 billion € Austrian taxpayers, with whom we are liable thanks to the decision of the SPÖ, the ÖVP and the Greens – when it comes to it, the Greens like the Soletti are always there. This is about the fact that, of course, this money can also be staggering if you continue pumping healthy money into a barrel without soil, namely into a banking speculator system, without being willing to change the system – and many experts say that openly. But what are you doing? – Not that you once question this and say: Hold it, now it's enough! We're not ready to pump in there even more. No, you are going here and you want to whip through the European Stability Mechanism by summer – the ESM-Diktat – relatively without the public. It is hardly discussed what that is. In the future, an ESM Board of Governors will be set up, where we in this Parliament will no longer have the power to decide, where democratic fundamental rights will ultimately be eliminated and we will no longer be able to decide in the Austrian Parliament, even in the European Parliament, how high the rescue shield will be raised at all; up to €2,000 billion will then be able to decide for ourselves the ESM Board of Governors. This means that he then decides because you want to abandon the decision-making power, whether we will be liable for this barrel without soil instead of €21 billion – sad enough – with more than €70 billion in Austrian tax money. This is a waste of our future, that is, several generations, and more than irresponsible, and you have to come to reason sometime and say: Stop, it can't go on! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Do you really want to bring everything down the stream? They have brought about this today – high – debt development in this Republic itself, Mr. Stummvoll, the senior economic expert with his economic competence, for more than 20 years in the High House and permanently in every federal government. And then the tracks come up and say, We want to save. – Yes, why didn’t you save in the last 20 years? Why do we have 90 percent of public debt in relation to GDP today? Why do we pay €10 billion interest? Why Create You do not at last want to make a structural and administrative reform, where we ultimately also cancel debt? – No mention of debt eradication at all, quite the contrary: Debts continue to grow! This is exactly what you have put into us, and I say, I understand that when the Austrians really have the nose completely covered and today say: That's no longer solemn what you're doing. You should really start thinking quickly!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e9461	Next speaker: Mr. Klubobmann Dr. Cap. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e9482	Madam President. High house! When Klubobmann speaks strache, it's like in the circus. There is a juggling of the numbers that fly around the area, there are still 20, 30 per cent to make it look as horrific as possible. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bitch.]] But that's not the introduction I wanted to make. I think it's impressive that you're reading Pippi's long-stroll right now. [[Abg. Strache: reminds me of Pippi Langstrumff!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] Normally, you can read this in the early childhood, if you find it attractive now, I don't want to prevent you from doing so, but it's at least interesting that it has such a high attractiveness for you and that you're currently reading this book. But the truth is: Kleinmut rarely does well – to change this sentence once. If now the opposition is here and says, Mr. Schäuble says that with the financial transaction tax, nothing will happen, and then suddenly in the opposition get all the hanging heads and say quite depressively, if the Schäuble says that it will be nothing, then it will really be nothing when you get out of there, the tears roll down you – and as an alternative you will actually offer us nothing except that maybe 20 years ago... [[Abg. Bookers: The hanging heads are elsewhere! Turn around once! Turn around once!]] Perhaps the alternative would have been that you would never have gone to the government in 2000. [[Abg. Bucher: Shadow cabinet behind you!]] That might have been the alternative, and we can work that out. But it is crucial to say now that, as of 2014, the financial transaction tax will play an important role in the budget, and if Mr Schäuble says so, and the British are just defending themselves, but otherwise a number of countries are in favour of this financial transaction tax finally coming. Or, as the “press” so correctly notes today in the survey on page 2: It is also about this high-frequency speculation, as it is not only about the revenue side, that there are 1.5 billion – that is already crazy – but it is also about getting hold of this speculation speed by automatically buying, selling and breaking down computers from a certain stock market development. That's what it's all about: limiting that – and that's why there is this fight and this resistance. That's why I can't make myself today and say, just because the Schäuble just has a crisis, let's leave it, then we don't plan it. – First of all, we are going to fight for it, but we are going to do it! [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Dr. stupid.]] You know, we come to the second point where the opposition becomes so depressive so suddenly, rolling on its seats, and you can hardly really address them anymore. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Bucher.]] The question is: Black money and transfer to Switzerland, among other things. There I have to say, apart from being for that too... – What to find You're so funny about that, Mr. Klubobmann Bucher, when I talk about black money? [[Abg. Bucher: Because you're dreaming! You're dreaming! Haven't you waken up yet?]] You must have a strange black humour when I'm just talking about black money, I'm telling you! In any case, it is a matter of combating loopholes, of course, but there are loopholes that are located in other countries, and there is probably a need to seek a European agreement that goes beyond the borders of Austria – and even there is the danger that it will be avoided. [[Abg. Bucher: You have a dominant influence in the EU! Arbitrators and fects have a dominant influence! You're listening!]] That's billions, Mr. Klubobmann Bucher, billions! They could make themselves there once and talk about the fight against black money, where these self-proclaimed billionaires are running around the area because they bought it black and moved abroad. And if it turns out that this is at the moment the only way to demand money from at least the country that benefits from it to an unprecedented extent, then it is right – economically right, socially correct and politically right. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bucher.]] And I'll tell you something: No, if it doesn't work, I'll buy the disks when they're offered on the market; then you'll have to consider knowing the names, the accounts, and so on. [[Inter-call at BZÖ.]] Then make yourself there and say that's no chance, and as an opposition we now demand that you officially try to get to these disks, so you know the people who are behind this and are going to fly abroad – and so on. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Book]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bitch.]] For example, this would be one of the possibilities. But this is an injustice that is being tolerated in countries like Switzerland. Or, quite a classic case: Grasser, after all, the Finance Minister of a former government; I only say grasser where files are requested and there in Liechtenstein they say: Tastes! We don't deliver them! Why? – Grasser may not even be so important to them, but it is important to them that you continue to go to Liechtenstein without any worries and place the black money there. [[Interlocutory calls from Deputies Ing. Westenthaler and Ursula Haubner.]] [[Inter-call at BZÖ.]] It is a question of innocence, I say, but with all the suspicion of innocence, I have to say that this is a very strange picture, if a former finance minister makes use of such possibilities and opportunities. [[Abg. Strache: The Trade Union Foundations in Liechtenstein, or what? What does the union have to hide?]] And then there should be more confidence in politics?- Oh, my God! Well, that's a great picture. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Is this in the savings package?! Look at the agenda!]] I know you were in the government with the Grasser at the time, Mr Peter Westenthaler. That you now have such a defense reflex, I already understand it somewhere, but still I have to say, say at least, it's not all right, and that that's heard. We can now agree on that. That is why this is still at the heart of our efforts, and we must therefore not let go of it, give up and not relinquish it. Mr Strutz's statement of resignation at the beginning of the debate was deeply marked by a sense crisis that we do not have, because we say we will continue to fight in this area. This is also about € 1 billion, and this does not matter, but it is important that this is also included in the budget. In this context, I would like to say something about it: It is, of course, now a situation where politics must also fight for the reconnaissance of powers of action, against this independence of the financial agglomerations, the hedge funds. In such funds, a lot of money is inside, which, of course, also affects the development of markets that influence financial markets, sometimes even with painful effects on the real economy, with crisis-like developments, when then the speculation overshadows and explodes. And there are sometimes banks that speculate. All of this takes place in an international style, because you can't make and say that we're going to do a sniffer and then we're in control, but you need concerted action, you need a rethinking in all the member countries of the European Union and also the eurozone, in all the conservative governments that there are some of them and still stand up to the financial markets, protecting themselves from the area where the whole money is concentrated. This is an economic stupidity and a social injustice if such developments continue. And in any case, the Austrian Federal Government is one of the governments that are trying to take steps here, trying to have rules here, trying to have a restriction here. And there are other governments that are driving this out. This should be taken into consideration when we discuss here. And we also discuss, among other things, in the interests of Austria and the people who live here, and of all those who work hard here, and of all those who really make their contribution here, so that this social and health state and pensions can be financed. All these people want justice. And here they are right if they want to, and there we are among those, we Social Democrats, who are fighting for this justice here, even with every kind of budget, even if it has to be a stability budget, so that we can get out of this deficit procedure. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: That's why you're cutting down on building savings! This is justice!]] Come on. Once out and describe what's good about the stability package! You have now criticized three, four points, the others have not addressed you, so I suppose you will find everything else inside, good. This would once again be a new access to the opposition if it were to focus on national interest and not on its short-sighted party political interest. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: What about the construction promotion? Five million are affected!]] No, Mr Westenthaler, the whole picture of politics already depends on that. There is a real picture of politics and there is often also an artificial picture of politics. What we cannot influence and against which we often have to resist is this picture, but we can influence the real picture of politics very well. By trying to find all five parties, once closed to us in this European concert of governments, interests and lobbys, and by emphasizing the Austrian position there. And that, I think, is important. [[Abg. Scheibner: Mr Cap, let us go to the next Council together! We'll come with you, Mr. Cot.]] Therefore, there is no small-minded hackery appropriate, but that you really get involved and strive. We have tried, both in terms of the Loipersdorf decisions and in terms of the Stability Package, to pay attention to social justice on the revenue side, measures which are at the same time economically meaningful and effective. For what no one speaker has spoken about the opposition today, not only was the issue of growth, employment, job security, safeguarding the funding bases of pensions, health systems, the whole social system. They didn't mention that. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Street: You will not achieve this with additional wage increases! You're on the wrong steamer!]] This is apparently indifferent to you, which is not worth a single sentence in your speech contribution. In this way, Austria differs significantly from the other countries in the euro area, where there are cuts, reductions, savings. We then speak quite differently, if ever this is the case with us. [[Abg. Booker: You did it anyway!]] This is true in the other countries in the euro area, in many, many of these countries, even in the countries which have very plausible and good economic data. We have to see that, and we are aware of this responsibility to the population. We're a government group, we're taking care of it. But there must be no automatic argument that the opposition is without responsibility, that does not have to exist. What we are calling on here again and again is to find ourselves together on the basis of concrete examples and to work together for Austria!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e9758	Mrs. Klubobfrau Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e9780	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! Mr. Klubobmann's head is always fighting. [[Call:Cap! Cap]] - Yes, the confusion again. Starts like that again. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] – Mr. Klubobmann Cap is always fighting. I just wonder what has actually happened in Parliament's budget deliberations over the last two weeks. It has been implemented by the government in a very, very low claim in a savings package, one third of which is already said to be hot air before decision. One of the basic criticisms was that social balance in the back and in the front does not fit that it is an extremely unfair savings package. We would have expected Mr Klubobmann Cap to fight in the parliamentary deliberations on social justice in this savings package. The fact is that the savings package now looks much sharper at this point than it was before, precisely in the points you mentioned. Financial transaction tax is certainly one of the biggest problems. And here to put the head in the sand and pretend to be there is no problem, and not to say who should carry these loads instead is extremely unfair. And someone will have to carry this load! It's interesting to look at what actually happened. Just before the informal Council of Finance Ministers, the Germans are going to go here and explain this project to be buried. There is no political and economic reason for this. The resistance of Great Britain, Sweden and the Netherlands is known. This has domestic reasons. And I would recommend that you as a government really fight, take control of the telephone listener, especially the ÖVP, and call your sister party in Germany and ask if this is still okay. Since 22 summits, the Federal Government has always nodded the proposals from Chancellor Merkel to one, without demanding anything reasonable in return. And I just find that unfair. This is about large sums of money and great hopes. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This is about the hope not only of the Austrian people, but also of the European people, that something will finally happen in the context of this financial market regulation, which is not only spoken of by fighting, but that something will finally happen and will also be done. And above all, the ÖVP is required. For CDU and CSU, a financial transaction tax was always something inappropriate. But this project must not fail! Try and fight where to fight, not in the Austrian Parliament! Do you really sit down with your sister parties – these are all conservative parties in Europe torpedoing the project – and see that you bring together a consensus for this project there! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] And as long as you don't do this, you should be at least as honest as telling the Austrians where You want to get the money back. And if you are not willing to take away the wealth, the rich and the foundations in Austria, you will take it away from the middle and the small incomes. That's the truth. Stand by it, or do it differently! We want it different. We want this Plan B at the table, we want that exactly this hole, which now opens up with the lack of the financial transaction tax, if it does not come at the same time, is filled with contributions from the rich and super empires in Austria. We expect you as an ÖVP to stand by and tell us where you want to take this money from. Not of the small, not of the middle income, and especially not of the working population, but of the rich – that would be a reasonable contribution to budget recovery. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Problem Fairness. The next problem this savings package has is the Swiss agreement. Austria can be danced around from Liechtenstein and Switzerland de facto on the nose. This is about tax criminals. This is about tax refugees. The estimates are relatively wide apart: 10 billion, 20, 30, up to 40 billion euros are expected to lie there on Austrian tax evasion. Maybe a few percent of them are clean, but most of them are tax criminals. And I do not think anything of this approach at all to amnesty these, to get a billion money quickly, instead of seriously trying at European level to finally allow automatic data exchange on these tax evasions. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Do you know what the truth is? Do you know why this is a problem, why the European Union cannot do this with full force? Because Austria and Luxembourg are slowing down here. The Austrian Minister of Finance slows down precisely in this consistent approach to drying out international tax havens. Bank secrecy in the wrong place. I find that extremely unfair, and that belongs abolished and ended. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Yes, this package is most disastrously cataclysed, you have to say. A third of these have disintegrated into air. The problem of social balance, fairness has worsened even further. The problems we have in Austria will not be solved. Unfortunately, this is the bad news of the day. Also the pompous expressions such as the largest reform package in the Second Republic – I mean, that is an absolute joke, and you know that too. You know that this does not solve the problems we face in Austria. This is the same as at the budget: In autumn it was decided that there was nothing but wonder, the Minister of Finance was proud. No need for action, it was called – and then came the largest savings package of the Second Republic. And it will continue! [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter: Reform package!]] – “Reform package” is unfortunately a bad joke to God, Mrs. Minister of Finance! That's really a joke! They would have had the opportunity to really enter into structures, create a pension system that is truly viable to create a pension system for all, especially the opportunities of young people to increase the two million people in training, investment opportunities. Mr. Klubobmann Strache, I have to tell you: To solve the climate change failure of the Austrian Federal Government by abolishing climate change, that cannot be a solution! This will destroy Austrian jobs! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Strache: You didn't listen again!]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: If you don't pay a penalty, you won't get the climate protection off!]] This is a real stupidity, a real nonsense: leaving the Kyoto Treaty instead of taking advantage of the opportunities. I can't understand. This is a typical FPÖ proposal where you ask yourself: Where did the brain stay? Sorry! We need green jobs that we need! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Bitch.]] It is also one of the shortcomings in not taking control of and investing money in this area, which is also one of these shortcomings, because it is a real investment in the future for our young generation – a key word: green jobs. Instead, we'll cut it down here! Heavy error in this budget! Heavy fairness error in this budget! It could have been a huge opportunity to solve really lost problems that have occupied Austria for decades. Now it stands at all corners and ends. Summits with the countries – the reform blockade of the countries is coming through again. I do not know how this should continue if you continue to deal with the courage with which you have presented this package with the countries on these issues. Unfortunately, the problems will continue to exist that the gap between the poor and the rich will continue to disperse, that there will be no improvement in educational opportunities, that no room for future investment will be created – and that problems may resolve a new federal government. And you from the SPÖ will stand up again in the election campaign, as did Mr Cap, and Mr. Justice, Justice, Justice, and Justice, while you have for five years, especially in this package, have failed to actually contribute to more justice in Austria. Personally, I am angered by these presentations: With this we win the Triple A back! That's such a great reform work! – That’s all not true! It is insidious to claim such things. You know that, too. It's unscrupulous! The real problems Austria has are still in the banking sector, which you could have addressed once too. Standard & Poor’s, rating agencies say that Austria has a problem here. And the population is waiting here for consequences, namely to change structures in the sense that those in the East business cannot simply continue as before, that one really is going to make reforms here and look at them a little bit stricter – keyword: Banking supervision, European and Austrian. These are the topics we should talk about. [[Abg. Krainer: But this has happened!]] The savings package has already been calculated by Standard & Poor’s. So don't pretend we're making a contribution to Austria winning its Triple A back. That's a stupid thing, too. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We would have had an opportunity to make Austria fairer, fairer, more future-fitter, and above all for important future issues – and here I personally have the most important education and climate protection – to actually manage money, if, above all, the ÖVP – and this is my final criticism of you – had given up this completely absurd protection policy for super-richs in Austria throughout this process. I'll tell you once again: They have ten children, one of them has 33 sausages, and all the others have only one. What would that do to a kid? Of course, there are the other meats, because you don't need 33 sausages. I think this is an example that the ÖVP understands. Or?
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e9931	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Stummvoll. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e9953	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! If we decide today on these two stability packages, with an amount of about €28 billion, with a sustainability for the next five years, we will undoubtedly decide to make the biggest contribution to a stability policy that has so far been in the history of the Second Republic, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to thank the Federal Government for having already caused one thing to happen with this energetic commitment to stability: that, despite the loss of Triple A, we have regained investor confidence in the future of our country at a credit rating agency. Because one thing is interesting: Since we lost Triple A at a credit rating agency, with one in three, we have been paying the lowest interest rates in recent years, namely 2.8 percent. That is to say, we have regained the confidence of those people who invest in the country's future and have confidence in its policy and economy. Thank you many times for this contribution! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] With this package of 98 legislative amendments, of hundreds of measures, I am absolutely clear that not each of us is satisfied with all the details. No question at all! [[Abg. Scheibner: What about the construction, Mr. Colleague?]] But it is quite remarkable that two parties, with in part such different regulatory, social and economic positions, have created such a balanced package: no mass taxes, no damage to the economic location, offensive measures for growth and employment. Ladies and gentlemen, this is really a huge political achievement, and we do not let it go bad! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, let me say once: Honestly, I don't understand why you're in politics, for one reason: Politics is supposed to be happy, it's future design! For you, politics is a mess. [[Abg. Booker: [O Muhammad] So look out for joy.]] [[Abg. Strache: Look at the “joyful” faces on the government bank!]] For you, politics is a delight in black painting, lust for pessimism, lust for failure. This is your attitude to politics! That's the wrong attitude! Politics is supposed to take courage! Let's not waste politics, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Interim calls at FPÖ and BZÖ.]] If I look at these two packages here, I say quite openly: There are very, very important measures included in this! But the most important thing for me is the mental change of consciousness that is taking place with it, that is, away from a long-standing fairy tale, the state can spend more than it takes. This fairy tale has dreamed of many politicians all over Europe. [[Abg. Strache: Where the colleague was stupid from the beginning!]] The dramatic sovereign debt crisis has caused this process of consciousness change, ladies and gentlemen. And no question, I would like to express my express thanks to our coalition partner. There were many politicians and mandates who had been supporters of the Deficit Donation for years. But now we see, we have a common attitude, we are energetically preparing the fight for stability, for the future of our country, we are putting the country back on healthy legs, ladies and gentlemen. And my respect is due to the coalition partner. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. That's right.]] Mr Strache, this is already important. You know the principle of democracy: You can be a hundred times convinced that your opinion is the right one if you don't have a majority, that won't help you! – You experience this sad every day, Mr. Strache. And that is also true within the coalition. [[Abg. Strache: Arrogance comes before the case!]] Why this is so important to me, ladies and gentlemen: because I am one of those, with many friends in the People's Party, who have been saying for years that there is nothing more against the family than high public debt, because that is, we are transferring our debts to our children and grandchildren. That's about to end. There can be nothing more unsocial than high public debt, because government debt means redistribution from bottom to top. With its taxes, the small taxpayer finances the interest rates for those who draw the bonds on the financial markets. A classic redistribution from bottom to top. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: What about the construction premium?]] Mr Westenthaler! I said earlier that there will be no one here who is 100% satisfied with all hundreds of measures. I'd love to admit, I wouldn't have done that. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: What wouldn't you have done?]] But I'm like every citizen: Every citizen must also comply with those laws that he does not like. And I like to admit, I fought for it, I stayed in the minority, and I have to respect it that I have remained in the minority. No question at all! There is a bunch of measures here that I am fully aware of, even if I may not like a detailed measure as it pleases others. Ladies and gentlemen, something else that I think is very important about this package: It has succeeded in establishing a strategic triangle here – a triangle, consisting of structural reforms, second of initiatives for growth and employment, i.e. offensive measures, and thirdly the closure of tax gaps. [[Abg. Street: This is sunk in the Bermuda triangle!]] I'd like to admit that. But this also indicates the balance of this triangle: on the one hand, structural reforms, on the other, growth impulses for employment and on the other hand, the closure of tax gaps. That this, ladies and gentlemen, is not everything at the push of a button, Mr Strache, you know too. Let's take the question of pensions! It would be a highlight of the legislator to increase the statutory retirement age, but that is not our problem. Our problem is that. And you can't increase the actual retirement age as easily as the legal one. There is a need for comprehensive strategies, and I am also taking the social partners into account. For what do I say to that 55-year-old who says: I've been canceled because the boss said the 30-year-old is 30 percent cheaper and he brings the same performance!? – The social partners are also called upon to align the life income curve with the life performance curve in many collective agreements. [[Abg. Street: 52-year-old National Bank Pensioners! What do you say to them?]] It is also a challenge to health policy. What do I say to the 54-year-old, who says: I would still like to work, but I can't be healthy anymore!? – A huge challenge also for qualification policy. Because what do I say to the 52-year-old textile worker who loses her job? We don't have a textile workplace anymore, but we urgently need care staff. – This is a huge challenge for qualification policy, ladies and gentlemen. And this is not all at the push of a button, just as the big reforms do not go at the push of a button. Of course it would be nice if we could say now: Hurra, huge puke blows, we've cleared everything for the next five years, and now we can put our hands in the lap for five years! On the contrary, ladies and gentlemen! I'm going to tell you: There will still be a lot of sweat, a lot of brain narrowness will be necessary to implement all that is inside this package! Let's go back to the health field. There we have the Minister of Health, very ambitious, but he alone cannot do much. He needs the countries, he needs the social insurance companies. There is a need for laborious negotiation processes. But the political will is clear: We want more efficiency in this area while ensuring the quality of performance, ladies and gentlemen! And just as at those points where you're accusing us like that, that's loud house numbers. – Yes, ladies and gentlemen, what is the financial transaction tax? We, all the parties, have decided here in Parliament six years ago in the Financial Committee and also in the plenary on a motion for a resolution. We said: We are in favour of introducing a financial transaction tax at European level! For what reasons? – Because it is not to be seen that I pay a tax for every semester I buy, for every T-shirt I buy, and there is no tax in the financial sector. There billions and trillions of dollars are hunted every day around the globe, all in part unregulated, all in part tax-free. It can't be! We decided six years ago. We've seen what a laborious process that was. [[Abg. Street: And then count the revenue fixed into the budget!]] – And, of course, it was also empty kilometers, Mr. Collegue. We have seen how difficult it was to make this a topic at European level. Of course, we're not where we want to be yet, but while you're just messing up, radiating pessimism and doing black painting, we're working at European level. [[Abg. Bucher: Not calculated!]] And I say ahead of you – Mr. Strache! [[Abg. Strache: You can't put that into the budget! That's absurd! It's only when it's enforced!]] The microphones are always stronger. Faith You're me! . I say to you that there will not be the financial transaction tax in the form that the Commission has now put on the table, but there will have to be a financial tax, ladies and gentlemen. Europe cannot see how the financial economy has completely decoupled itself from the real economy, as the so-called shadow banks act, which hunt billions and trillions of dollars every day around the globe. Europe will not be able to watch it. The second is that the sovereign debt crisis will put pressure on us to get revenue from the financial sector. We want to capture those – I agree with Cap – who, for example, are doing high frequency business that is moving billions at the push of a button. They all have nothing to do with the real economy. I am really protecting those banks that make traditional banking operations that finance the economy. That is what we want, which is the prerequisite for growth and employment. [[Abg. Bucher: Yes, separation!]] But I want to put the entire international speculation business in the barriers with a tax. We will succeed at European level, even if not in the form it is now on the table. [[Abg. Street: If you don't have one, you can't take it into account in the budget! That's absurd!]] Please believe me, Mr Bucher: We need more optimism, more future optimism, less mess-making and less negative attitude you have. Believe me! We will be successful! You can take me by the word. We will have a financial tax at European level in the foreseeable future.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e10229	Mr Klubobmann Bucher is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e10251	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! If the colleague speaks boldly of pleasure and pleasure that policy should convey, I really have to ask myself: How far has the ÖVP fallen if you feel desire and joy in such a scrapping action you are currently doing in Austria, my dear reigns of the ÖVP? That is unprecedented! [[BZÖ and FPÖ are welcome.]] I think the Federal Government is different. I would ask you once to focus on the faces behind me, on the members of the government, because such entered faces have rarely been seen. You already know that what is to be decided here today in this Hush fuffle action cannot hold and will not hold. And all the experts assume that these measures, these 98 “air balloons” – one probably did not choose 99 because there is a song in change of them – will burst. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. stupid.]] And some have already been put down. Before you make the decision here, two points are obsolete. You have to imagine that! That's why it's no wonder you're going to take a look behind me like this because you know exactly that what you're doing is not all right and is a mogel pack. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Mr President, if I quote the paper correctly, you said you would never have attacked the construction premium. Let's remember! The construction-saving premium was a short-term turbo, but now she's getting on the brake. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: That's it!]] Full gas has now been announced in the run-up to an economic crisis, my dear rulers from the ÖVP Economic Party! Full-gas would have to be driven now instead of rising to the brake. Let that be said at last! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Your own representative in the Chamber of Commerce speaks of: 10,000 jobs in the construction industry are at risk! - Think about it! [[The speaker keeps a newspaper article up to date.]] These are your representatives, who are driving their inconsistencies in the Chamber of Commerce, lifting the compulsory contributions and then criticizing the Federal Government. Payingly, you do exactly the opposite. And this is the insanity that is being operated here once as an economic chamberer to cash back inside here, and both times to represent a different view! – You have to imagine that! [[OBJECTIVES]] That's unheard of! [[Abg. Wöger: Why are you yelling like that? Calm down!]] Because you always blame the opposition: That it is a hole does not come from us! – Schäuble speaks openly of the fact that this financial transaction tax will not be applicable. Or: ‘Spar package: Hole already 8 billion". Today's newspapers report it. Or: ‘Quick money from 1. ==References== Or: Reforms to the long-term bank, or even put in a waiting position for the next governments. Or: ‘Finance experts doubt that the savings package presented by the government holds.’ All this is to be read in the newspapers. That's not just the opposition. [[Abg. May. Schickhofer: Even if they report it, it is not right!]] These are the right assessments of experts: “The shrinked package” – to read today in the newspapers. Mrs Finanzminister, because you are always talking about the fact that these black money accounts are now being taken to the kandare by the Austrians in Switzerland: A few days ago – it was in the newspapers – Mario Tuor, spokesman of the State Secretariat for International Financial Questions in Bern, said: Entry into force at the beginning of 2013 corresponds to a very ambitious timetable. We have not yet talked about concrete figures. - Quote. Who are you talking to, Mrs Finanzminister, if not to the Swiss?! – Are you talking to Namibia? Who are you talking to? They obviously don't talk to the Swiss and don't negotiate with them either. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: With DJ BoBo!]] And that is the point that we criticize: You are extremely unscrupulous in your approach, highly unscrupulous, by telling us completely wrong here in the House and also the public, Mrs Finanzminister! – Let that be said once too! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The financial transaction tax: a good project, yes, there was a five-party agreement. But, ladies and gentlemen, it is not serious to include a financial transaction tax, a profit in a savings package that I do not have. You do not know today whether the budget will flow into Brussels and whether we will get a small share of it at all. From today's point of view, you don't know. And the German Minister of Finance has taken a line through your account. – This is absolutely unscrupulous! And who believes, please, in Austria, that the extremely estimated great influence of Mr State Secretary Schieder or Mrs Fekter in Brussels will achieve this objective?- Oh, my God! [[Deconstratetive applause with BZÖ]] Who would believe in it, please?- Oh, my God! – This is a disastrous self-esteem, ladies and gentlemen – and that on the back of Austrian citizens! – No one believes that! [[In the case of the BZÖ, as well as the members of the FPÖ.]] Another point: the pre-tax scheme in the municipalities – pushed to the long-term bank. You can also forget this again, as well as the pre-tax amount on the pension funds, which will not increase to 900 million, but a much lower contribution. All in all, that's a mogel pack! Every sand castle is an outflow of stability to what you have roomed here, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] And today we are talking about permanent reforms that need to be addressed. The fact that your credibility is extremely perplexed now is that you have to finally take over, because all your announcements, all your projects, which you have presented here in the House, have failed completely, whether this was the bank rescue package – it is not enough, you will have to shoot again – or whether this is the case with Greece's aid packages, which are not enough. You know, Mrs. Minister, what you've told us here, namely: This is a business for Austria, for the taxpayer! – Now it is necessary to renegotiate and reshoot. The rescue shields are not enough. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, do you know what is happening to us now?- Oh, my God! –Both rescue shields are now to run parallel – not one to replace the other, but to be blown up! Mrs. Merkel has already announced that the EFSF and the ESM, to be decided by you before the summer, will total a total of € 1 trillion. Austria's contributions to this ESM, this European Stability Mechanism, this debt mechanism to be set in motion here amounts to a total of €4.5 billion in cash. The liability costs us a total of € 40.5 billion. I have already asked myself, ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government, what you actually thought about it. Are you still serious?, I wonder. Are you still serious? – A serious question to be asked in view of this situation. They wrangle the citizens of Austria with fantasy measures that are not sustainable, just to save the banks and the Marod countries of Europe. That's your fight! That's the only thing you can do with this savings package now! And all this, ladies and gentlemen, will not be enough. There will be too little Greek aid. Money will be needed for the rescue shield. And it will also be necessary in the future for economic promotion measures if the economy no longer grows as it is supposed to be in your budget according to your plan. And the banks will come again. I wonder how you finance all of this and how you want to accomplish it all. This is impossible with the financial measures you have planned here. We say: Finally, take the path through structural reforms! Finally, take up the various reforms that have come from the Court of Auditors, which have been received here in the form of opposition applications, which contain a multitude of savings! This should be considered now! I would like to see a competition of ideas and proposals – but not a competition of red and black, which increases taxes and which new taxes are to be introduced! This would be the best contribution to securing the economic location of Austria. This would secure jobs, create new jobs and increase prosperity. That would be an orderly investment. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Let's say one thing: We already need new structures in Austria! You are constantly told by Mr Häupl and Mr Pröll what you have to do. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] You are nothing but a shadow cabinet of these two princes, ladies and gentlemen. In Austria, we need federalism reform, orderly structures, a complete rethinking of all these structural situations and measures for all that we have long had to reform in Austria. That would be the right time! We should not think about new taxes and tax increases. They are thus exclusively the performance-oriented middle class. He's going to be asked to check out the checkout now. It will now have to be bleeding to ensure that you have made the completely wrong decisions at European level.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e10432	Mr Faymann is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e10453	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! If you ask yourself why Austrian government bonds currently have an interest rate of 2.8 percent, i.e. an assessment that is almost low – 2.6 was once the low level about a year ago – and if we know that we had to set earlier for interest rates 4, 5 and 6 percent, then I have to say: [[Abg. Strache: Because money is flooded by the ECB! That's why!]] The fact that government bonds are purchased at a time when government bonds have lost a lot of confidence in Europe means that Austria is considered stable, otherwise interest rates would not be so low! This is missing in your debate. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. The ECB's flow of money!]] If I look at the employment figures, I have to say: It is not a talk of all the unstable conditions and what is being made wrong and terrible! We are among the model countries in Europe: high employment rates, low unemployment, low youth unemployment. That can't be about it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] If you do not even tell us on the next rounds that this is the merit of the speeches, Mr Strache, your speeches, if you do not want to make this known to us, then let us say whose merit it is! – It is the merit of the diligent companies in our country, the hardworking workers and the political framework. You do little to contribute to stability! But the Austrians contribute a lot to this, and they also have to thank for it. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] If the strongest and hardest economic crisis has taken place since the 1930s and the economy has had to take economic action with an economic package to boost the economy, then we must, of course, make sure to stabilise the finances for the next few years with a debt brake, savings proposals and additional revenue. In fact, there are €28 billion, which are proposed, many things that are rightly described as positive, negative, too small in criticism. It is also, I think, a real process in a democracy that is quite open to talk about. As a result, when I look at the reactions from the population, I see this – many people are concerned that we are making a reduction of up to €18 per year in the construction premium. There are others who are bothering us that we need to change something at all in the case of pensions, even though we also have to secure the smaller inflation. Others are concerned that we still have reserves with fair measures in the revenue side, which would contribute to greater distribution justice. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Street: With the privileges of the National Bank you do nothing!]] And there are a number of emotional, material, ideological, political, economic correct proposals. [[Abg. Kickl: What are you doing..?]] But let's make a comparison! Let us ask ourselves the question: How do our partners, other countries in the European Union, deal with this enormous volume that needs to be achieved in the respective countries – in some countries much more than in Austria – in order to keep the finances stable at all? There are 14 out of 27 EU countries that have decided over the last two years to increase VAT and VAT on food. – We do not do this consciously, because that would happen to the wrong ones, because that would affect the poor because it would affect the families and the households. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Kickl: And yet food is still more expensive with us!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Mineral oil tax!]] We distinguish ourselves from those who make real cuts in the smallest pension, and we distinguish ourselves from those who simply intervene and thereby increase poverty or increase youth unemployment. [[Abg. Strache: Nevertheless, food is more expensive with us than in other countries!]] If youth unemployment has increased in Europe over the last two years from 4 to 5.5 million and we have the lowest youth unemployment in Austria at the same time, this shows that we are different from those who have responded to this crisis with social reduction. – That’s good, that’s socially balanced, that’s right! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Kickl: Why do we hold it?]] There are now different forecasts on how economic developments will develop. Of course, at that time we had to use a Wifo's forecast, of which one cannot say a hundred percent that it will arrive in the next five years. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: They lie next to it regularly!]] Mr Westenthaler, you said we gave up making decisions in our own country. – Yes, Mr Westenthaler, first of all, we have been in the European Union for a long time, where we also make joint decisions, and second, each third job is indirectly related to export. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: But the budgetary sovereignty is still in the country, isn't it?]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: But we have had the budgetary sovereignty so far!]] Let us admit, for example, that we cannot decide on exports in the country alone, but that we need a stable Europe and that we need stable developments in European policy. Therefore, let us commit ourselves, and let us not pretend to be able to determine everything within our borders! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] That is why there are, in fact, a number of uncertainties, already only because of the economic forecasts that are underlying and which, as you yourself say, have been revised more often in the past. Of course, we hope that the signs that exist – I could tell you here the Oesterreichische Nationalbank and the economic indicator that I could read and say a lot about the current discussions on the Wifo economic test now – are right, but there is no reason to give any warning yet. The forecasts will not change radically in the next few weeks, but it is a fact that Europe has stabilised the state bond situation, that there is a certain amount of confidence and confidence in purchasing power again in Europe, and this can rightly be hoped that with the power of Austria the export can be boosted and economic growth can be increased again over the next few years. [[President Neugebauer shall take over the chairmanship.]] So it's not that we're now talking about everything that can arise from holes and difficulties. It can be improved through our investment and a good common European policy with investment in employment, economic growth. And that would be the best form of economic policy: When the economy flourishes, it is fair, it is properly distributed, and people are fine because they have employment! Then we will also be better off, then our revenue will also rise, and then we will find even better opportunities. And that's the goal! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Therefore, in the many proposals, we have taken very close account of the fact that, for example, in the area of rail, road, thermal insulation, in the field of construction activities, we are very careful to ensure that we act in a economical way on the one hand, but on the other hand, we invest about €2 billion per year in the infrastructure sector. So don't save and destroy, but make sure that savings and investments belong together! And that is a right way to maintain employment in such a way. And while others have opted for the reduction of the social state, we have decided to also rely on the increase in the bank levy, on the real estate tax, on the solidarity levy. [[Abg. Scheibner: Speculators?- Oh, my God!]] This is also a contribution to justice in a country where we are rightly measured whether we are fully committed to this objective, the financial transaction tax, also at European level. And I would like to conclude by saying: Let us not be afraid, Mr Strache, if the German neighbor now does not have a uniform opinion in the government. We know that there are more and more countries across Europe that also express their opinion by the power of the population and say: We need a tax that has regulatory effects, we need financial market regulation, and we need additional revenue from this sector! Therefore, if we do not make ourselves small, we trust that Austria is strong, and we continue to work together for this financial transaction tax!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e10710	Mr Vice-Chancellor Dr. Spindelegger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e10731	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Dear Members of the Federal Government! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the House! The consolidation package, which comes to the vote today, has a manuscript, which means: We learn from what is burdening our Republic, our next generations. [[Abg. Vilimsky: The construction premium, for example, is taxing...!]] These are the debts. 74 percent of government debt is enough! We must therefore reduce our debt. [[Abg. Strache: The outstocked areas!]] That was the motivation, and that is the motivation for a dedicated package that is now in the House for decision-making. And I'm just saying, We have to take this seriously! Next generations have the right to inherit opportunities and not debts. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Stefan:... higher social security contributions so that...high pensions pay!]] Ladies and gentlemen, at the beginning of December, we – the Federal Chancellor and I – said with the Federal Government that we want a debt brake. Within ten weeks, we have negotiated a package that covers five years, which includes 98 laws that will allow us this future, with a forecast that in 2016 we will again have a balanced budget, that we will come down with government debt to 70 percent and that the forecast will be maintained by 2020, that we will return to Maastricht in accordance with 60 percent government debt. [[Abg. Booker: That's impossible!]] [[Abg. Strache: Really absurd!]] That is what this Federal Government has done: to make legislative texts within a short period of time from an announcement and to present them to the House today for decision. This is a huge programme, ladies and gentlemen, and I believe that we do not need to put our light under the threshold either. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. That's a fairy tale hour!]] When, after the first round of speakers, I deal with what the opposition parties have told us: Yeah, there's a lot to answer. Let me highlight just a few headlines: If the FPÖ-Obmann and Klubobmann Strache today quotes the Pippi Langstrumff, this shows that he has a childish mind and that the fairy tales in his policy obviously play a special role. [[Abg. Strache: I’ve compared the woman Fekter with her behavior – if you didn’t watch out!]] But, ladies and gentlemen, to compare Mrs Finanzminister with the Pippi Langstroff, I reject that. [[Abg. Grosz: That didn't deserve the Pippi Long Stocking!]] We have a Finance Minister who does excellent work, who manages this taxpayer's money perfectly, and I insist on it, ladies and gentlemen! – These fairy tale lessons you can tell someone else. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] [[Interlocutory calls from MEPs Kickl and Ing. Westenthaler.]] Mrs Klubobfrau the Greens has, perhaps, contributed to the discussion which must also be taken seriously. Yes, I am also trying to find partners in the financial transaction tax across Europe, and of course I will also talk about it with the parties that are close to us. However, your ideological approach, which you are again proposing today, namely to increase the burden on the property of Austrians, I say a clear no. I have a completely different view than you, and here I remain: Hands away from the property of the Austrians! That's what's left of my program. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. That's why the real estate tax is now! – An objection hunts the other!]] [[Abg. Kickl: ÖVP in free fall!]] Mr Klubobmann of the BZÖ has said a lot. He certainly exceeded the volume again. - Okay, that's all I want to do. Ladies and gentlemen, the consolidation package contains six points, which are very likely to provide in-depth reforms for this country. Early pensions, as we have them today, are history. [[Abg. Strache: But at the National Bank unfortunately not!]] Under a benchmark system, health is guided along with the federal states in a direction, where we also come down to an acceptable level with cost increases. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Deimek: How does the “head of the country ” look like?]] We will move completely new ways in the promotions. We have set up administrative reform projects. After many years, there are concrete results here. We have made reforms in the public service and, and, These are huge projects, reform projects for Austria, which can be seen. [[Call the FPÖ:The plate on the hunt!]] That's where you can criticize what you want. This is good work done here. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. May. Schickhofer.]] Let me also say a clear word on taxation, ladies and gentlemen: The financial transaction tax, yes, is one of the projects we cannot achieve on our own. But let's see exactly what German Finance Minister Schäuble said. Because the financial transaction tax is not feasible in the circle of the 27, he says – I quote –: “That’s why we’re going to do something different.” ‘We will only achieve this through the legal instrument of enhanced cooperation’. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, we have just experienced an example of how this is done. The Fiscal Pact is not a project of the 27 but one where other states that confess themselves to the “down with debt! ” have concluded a new contract with a Fiscal Pact. Yes, if we bring together the financial transaction tax – or may it be called otherwise – just about increased cooperation: a thousand roses! Yes, we will fight for it and we also have a plan for it, ladies and gentlemen. As early as this weekend, Maria Fekter will discuss these questions in the circle of the European Union's Finance Ministers, how we can move forward. [[Abg. Strache: Widewidewitt!]] [[Abg. Strache: “I’m doing the world as I like it”, Mr. Vice-Chancellor!]] I will be recombining with the Commission after Easter. The Commission is our best ally. [[Call the FPÖ: Your best ally!]] She wants a financial transaction tax. The Federal Chancellor will represent the issues of financial transaction tax at the European Council as at the previous Council meetings. That's our plan – and it's better than anything else I heard from you from the opposition. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, and by the way, I cannot spare you one thing, you do not even take yourself seriously. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Please don't forget Walt Disney with the Brothers Grimm!]] All five parties to this National Council – and I quote – have asked the Federal Government and, in particular, the Finance Ministers to enforce “in a first step a binding introduction of a general financial transaction tax at EU level”. [[Abg. Yeah, right! But it is not in sight – but it is included in the budget! That's absurd! It's not in sight, but it's included in the budget! – Completely absurd!]] Yes, ladies and gentlemen, don't you take yourself seriously?- Oh, my God! – We do what you say every day, and we will ensure that we also set up an instrument in Europe in this direction. [[In the case of ODPs and SPÖs.]] [[Abg. Street: The lotto six is probably included in the budget in the future! Calculate with the lotto six!]] Let me also comment on the question of paying tax with Switzerland. While you're talking flowerily about that all this is not possible, we're doing: Yesterday, a section head of the Ministry of Finance in Switzerland has already prepared the expert discussions with the competent bodies. [[Abg. Bucher: Did you talk to the porter, or with whom?]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Talk to DJ BoBo right now!]] The Minister of Finance will be there in April and will prepare the next steps with her colleague. Yes, we do, because it is not to be seen that someone who has parked money from Austria in Switzerland does not have to pay his taxes for it. We take care of this, and we will bring it to the final with Switzerland, whether it suits you or not! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, yes, we have not actually been in the legislative text yet, that is true, but what we can do is always to put it in such a way as to make it possible by professional means. This is what we are doing in this consolidation package, and I am sure that in a few years we will probably be above the results of what we have done, because the forecasts that have been set are set at that level which corresponds to our very careful assessment. And if, for example, we look at the economic forecasts, they are already running better today than what is actually at the basis of the consolidation package. Therefore, there is no reason here to throw the pint into the grain, there is no reason to put the head in the sand, but there is only one reason to work consistently for this consolidation package to put Austria on healthy legs. That is our goal, and that is guaranteed.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e11109	Mr Grastaur. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e11159	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen here in the plenary room! Dear spectators here and at the TV screens at home! Mr. Dr. Stummvoll, we were together in Copenhagen and have been shown there as a hundred percent that the financial transaction tax does not come. [[He-Ruf at the FPÖ.]] And here it is still hoped that a financial transaction tax will be introduced through Austria. It's just fairy tale, nothing else. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] They have also said that politics should be a pleasure. But, ladies and gentlemen of the EIA, politics should also be honest. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I claim that it was always the ÖVP that caused these huge public debt. I'm not surprised you want to give yourself a code of conduct now. Apparently there are problems here with the characters in your party. [[Abg. Strache: If you're behavioral, yes!]] Mr. Spindelegger, who is to blame for the huge debt? [[Abg. Rädler: Who wrote this speech?]] I already mentioned it: It's you yourself. And if you are talking about not burdening the future, I would like to remind you that in the savings package there is a preference in pensions as far as taxes are concerned, that: They want to increase the maximum basis of assessment, which will ultimately lead to higher costs in the future. Mr. Federal Chancellor Faymann, you're talking about the debt brake. Have you not signed the Fiscal Pact a few weeks ago in Brussels? This Fiscal Pact also includes the ESM, and this ESM states that Austria has to assume €22 billion in liabilities and will have to pay €2.5 billion in capital, funds that will be used again for marode states, as you have already supported Greece with funds planned for marode states. As far as the savings package is concerned, we have already heard a lot about the tax on black money and many other points that do not come. The balloons burst, € 8.5 billion in the savings package. The zero deficit, ladies and gentlemen, is also becoming a question of faith. And it is to be expected that another scrapping package will come and have to come. Mr Faymann, what do you say about this disastrous savings package that you have always put up as an alternative? – Mr. Federal Chancellor has been covered in recent weeks, and he has made the problem work done by his State Secretary arbitrator. A boss, Mr. Bundeskanzler, in such a case in the private sector had already lost the executive job. He should've turned him down because he didn't reach the plans. He would have been dismissed by the owners for failure. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The two tax packages, the one from Loipersdorf and the one that is now under discussion, burdened the Austrian population across the board with about €50 billion – money that the taxpayer has to raise. Only by itself, by the government and also by the parties ÖVP and SPÖ is not saved. Faith Do you really think that the reduction of the National Council will come if you fear for yourself that the backbends will not come in, or that the Federal Council will be reduced or changed? [[Call the SPÖ: Leader of the Grain Duration!]] This, in turn, does not come into question for the reasons of the countries. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In connection with the savings package, the question is why Finland, Sweden, the Netherlands and Switzerland are far better than Austria. They also had the crisis. We also need to ask ourselves why the Bavaria, the Baden-Württembergers and the Swiss pay much less taxes than we do in Austria. This is about €15 or €20 billion difference, although Switzerland and the countries mentioned have high social benefits, better schools, better universities and a better infrastructure. The answer is: Because over the last 20 to 30 years, Austria has become very “moly”, that is, overweight. We have therefore created an oversized, politically inflated administration. Red-black administrative bacon has settled. It was now about removing this red-black bacon. But this is not the case – we experience it all the time – because red and black themselves stand in the way and the countries are opposed to it, the trade unions are against it, the unions are against it and the usual blockers are against it. It is about eliminating legal or also tolerated abuse. You can read in the Court's proposals and in the WIFO and IHS documents. Austria is talking about these waste expenditures of money that we really need for the future of the next generations. According to the OECD report, Austria is the fourth most advanced health system. Austria has the second highest educational expenditure per student – and nevertheless bad PISA results. The approximation of the actual retirement age to the legal level alone would save 1.5 percent of GDP – more than 5 billion. Applying subsidies and subsidies to the EU level would bring 2.5% of GDP or € 7.2 billion, ladies and gentlemen. Saving potentials are well over €10 billion per year. It is absolutely incomprehensible to me why expert opinions are not taken seriously. One is even proud of such a disastrous savings package, which is now slowly crumbling! Mrs Fekter, our Federal Minister for Finance, sells the savings package as a super-performance! – Ladies and gentlemen, this is a smooth increase of Austrians! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It is now 50 billion in use, and you, Mrs. Federal Minister, are still proud of these high debts that you have contributed to the highest deficit that has ever occurred in Austria, namely, in 2010 of 13 billion. [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign]] They are proud that in the last five years we have accumulated 60 billion more debt. There are no structural reforms, even the additional wage costs...
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e11277	The final sentence, please!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e11292	have been increased. Mein Ladies and gentlemen, a great opportunity has been missed to finally bring order into Austria's state finances.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e11322	The motion for a resolution tabled is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e11371	Next speaker: Mr Krainer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e11392	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It may also be necessary to pick up a little, because some things have already been said here, which have little to do with reality, namely on the question of public debt. When we look at the evolution of public debt, it becomes clear that in Austria, both in terms of the deficit and in terms of the debt ratio, we have been dealing with public debt from the mid-1990s until the outbreak of the crisis. [[Abg. May. Stefan: What does “in the grip” mean?]] As a result, the government debt ratio has decreased from 68 percent to less than 60 percent. Debts have been reduced year after year, and deficits have been different, but at least in most years significantly below 3 percent. In this respect, one can already see that this is not new now, that politics knows that one has to go down with debt, and it has also been shown for many, many years that politics is capable of reducing debt as a whole in Austria. This has happened and can also be read. Why are the debts so exploded? – This has, of course, been a direct consequence of the economic crisis, the financial crisis. And we said quite consciously here, yes, we're making Deficit Donation. The colleague, Mr Stumpfully, said: We don't. But I know what Deficit Donation is – I am a follower of it – that in times of crisis, I consciously make debt and in good times reduce these debts again. That is really Deficit Donation, and that is exactly what this Federal Government has done! We said: We will make a conscious debt to get through this crisis and to keep the negative effects on jobs, growth and so on as low as possible. And the figures give this federal government the right to: A country in the European Union has hardly been as well hit by this crisis as Austria. We have the lowest unemployment, we are among the countries with the highest economic growth, we have one of the lowest deficits and are among the least indebted countries. That means that we were very, very successful in this regard. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We have said at the same time that when the crisis is over, we must reduce the debt again. This has already begun over a year ago, with the first step, Loipersdorf, and now a second step is being taken. I assume that we are taking these two steps and are going back to where the policy was until the crisis broke out, namely to reduce the debt. We have said that three things are important in reducing indebtedness. Firstly, we must pay attention to employment: as many jobs as possible, as few unemployed as possible. Second: We must ensure that we continue to have a growth and that the savings are not made or as low as possible at the expense of growth. And the third thing is: We want to save socially just. And we have also clearly said that people who earn their money through work pay too much taxes, that this is too high, and that those who earn their money through capital or wealth pay too little. And we have also clearly defined that these are the objectives we want to save – under these three principles. Now we had our expert hearing. The colleague, Bucher, has said here that it would have been said that the savings package was bad. – The colleague Bucher was not there. I was there and can tell you what was said: That's exactly what we asked about these three things. The first is: What are the effects on employment? Of course, a savings package has a negative impact on employment. It is expected that around 10,000 jobs will be created less than without the savings package. This means that we have a relatively small negative impact on employment. Overall, employment is increasing, especially through offensive measures, but without a savings package, we would have more 10 000 jobs. It is no wonder that if there is a stop in the Federal Service, there are fewer jobs. That's clear. Of course, this has a negative effect, but it is very, very low, especially if you compare it with other countries. Second: What are the effects on economic growth? – In the year 0.15 percent the negative impact of this savings package is. They will not find a country across the European Union that manages to bring a savings package with such a low negative impact on growth on rail. That is to say, this second principle has also been fulfilled. And the third thing: What about social justice? Let's see what's happened since the crisis broke out: We have reduced taxes and deductions to work by €3 billion and have at the same time increased by about €3 billion taxes and taxes on capital income, to wealth income. That's what I'm saying: Yes, this is socially just and is a distribution of the burdens of those who work for their money, to those who make work that live on capital and incomes. – That is what we think is right, that is social justice, and we are proud that we have done this. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I can also show you this: The real estate tax affects certain real estates. And, of course, we've been looking closely at: Who owns these real estates today? I can tell you that 88 percent of these properties belong to the highest, the richest 10 percent. This means that 88 or 90 percent of this tax is also paid by the top 10 percent. Yes, I think that is socially balanced and socially just! [[Abg. Scheibner: That the speculators are favored!Unknown term type: "%s".?]] Of course, you're right, there's also an impact on an average employee. This is affected, on average, by €18, i.e. by the reduction in the construction savings premium. He gets only 18 € for saving and no more 36 €. Thus, the average employee budget is affected. On the other hand, Mr Treichl, the head of the First Bank, is affected by over €150 000 a year. I also think that this is a reasonable social symmetry: The rich pay tens of thousands, up to 100 000, 150 000 € more a year in taxes and taxes, and the average worker is charged with 18 €. I consider that to be socially balanced, and therefore I also support this savings package, even if no one here says he likes all 98 things, but I support the package as a whole. When discussing the financial transaction tax: It's not sure she's coming. It's not certain that she'll be the way we want her. We have been doing this for years and remembering that a few years ago there was a single country for it to be introduced – that was Austria; it was the European Parliament against it, it was the Commission against it and it was the Council against it – we must say that in the meantime the European Parliament has decided to do so, that the European Commission has said it wants it and has already put forward a proposal, and yes, the European Council is not yet fully convinced. [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: years of work!]] [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: It is already included in the budget!]] This is certainly a great task, but of course you can see it differently. You can act like a balcony muppet, sit up on the balcony and say: Run it and bring it something G’scheiteres z’samm!, or you can try to make a contribution yourself. If you think that the financial transaction tax is correct and important – and this is my opinion – then I think about it: What contribution can I make to her coming? No matter if I am in Copenhagen, Vienna or anywhere. Or I'll sit up as a balcony muppet and say, You don't have anything to do with it! I choose to work for what is right, and to work for it – and not just to motate. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Grosz: A member of parliament insults guests as “balcon mupets”!]] Finally, one point that is really very terrifying: increasing youth unemployment in the European Union. The EU is concerned with millions of people, countries where every second youth does not find a job! This is a matter for all of us, because these are problems that will still concern us very much. We must also consider what we can do, both in Austria and at European level, in order to minimise youth unemployment. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e11513	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Kogler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e11534	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! This package would offer several opportunities – and if reforms already exist, then it should be implemented first of all innovatively, second of all, it should be socially balanced, thirdly, there must still be something left to invest in meaningful and meaningfully, and fourthly, it is also about a certain sustainability and therefore honesty in budget planning. In all these areas it can be said that hops and malts are not yet lost; we also recognise the good, but to say that, of course, in the short time of the discussion of the more frequently – and therefore I would like to expressly mention that there are at least a few points here, both in the announced savings measures, which have been moved relatively into the future, and in some fiscal measure that will be approved by us. There are also things that we have constantly called for – and that is why we will not be against it today just because you are doing it; you are right in some things. [[Demonstrative applause by representatives of the ÖVP.]] It is nevertheless true that from my point of view there would have been much more inside, both as regards the willingness to reform, than as far as social balance is concerned. The fact that it is not quite honest here or there, it is actually a scam package, which remains, if you look into the future, the main criticism point, it is also about fighting those revenue you claim to have soon. Let's go through this once in a while. As far as reforms are concerned, unfortunately, you do not take any action where this would be really, for a long time, useful and necessary – and only right when it comes to billions for the future. And that's exactly where the state is reformed. That is exactly where it was about bringing the health system, the school administration there, so that these systems work in such a way that on the one hand less tax money must flow into it without the patients having to expect a less of health services, but quite the contrary! And that's quite right in the school administration – and that's not about a few hundred euros, it's about a few billion euros! Even though a Black Blue government was in office and dignity twelve years ago, which was always tried to sell as a reform government – “more private, less state!” and the devil still knows how it was titulated – but: As it turned out, we've seen that. I would also advise to abandon privatisation actions that are planned again, because on this occasion it will surely find itself a “new high” in your environment. But let's get to the other points. If the black and blue government and later the successor government had done what we proposed, then I can only say: It would have been so much more saved than this savings package volume, without anyone having done anything great. Experts regularly expect that the measures we propose are useful and would also bring something. However, you have missed that, and since you have been in the government for many, many years – feeling 150 years, I would say – you always stand here by the ÖVP and call for reform, so to speak, overnight. That's a trace of unbelievable! But it is never too late to reverse; nor in the other areas. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I'll tell you: It would have been more of a savings volume in the last 12 years than what you now call “the greatest package of all time” here – and this would have been the case where it really takes care of those who already have less and are among the weakest in society. This is certainly the case in the pension sector; this can be clearly demonstrated. And if the talk is about zero-pension rounds, then it must be added in the place: On the other hand, we are anyway, and this also belongs to the ASVG system balanced. You promised, but I'm going to look at that in color. The advances that exist in this context are horrendous, because there is nothing else in the old politician's petitions, even though they are special class privileges! It's not even half a percent! I think it's obscene! And here you make yourself up here and say it's about something just! [[It was in favour of the Greens as well as of representatives of FPÖ and BZÖ.]] The same with the note bank sanctions: Indeed, the Court of Auditors has expected you to see how these have been increased in comparison to the ASVG sanctions, so that a few percent would not even be felt. Do you know what they are doing there – so to speak a little bit for the “Gallery” –: Only 1 percent!, it says, but they have a much higher pension: not even, twice, but three, four times as high pensions as the average majority of those who may now be watching; that is to say to them. So look. Your sense of justice! That's totally unbelievable! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] There is no need to be a left-wing or a right-wing fanatic, because that is also economically unreasonable, because especially in those areas where you are now jumping on the brake, the domestic demand goes back! There would be enough of the distribution situation in Austria; I can only say. This also concerns taxes and tax justice, where one could not only do something, but should, without affecting the economy and employment, because, Mr Krainer, Mr Krainer, does not vote from the beginning to the back what you have said here. This package, which you have tied up, has – at least in the short term – harmful effects on growth and employment – and that is no wonder, because I believe it must be dealt with differently. If Mr. Vice-Chancellor Spindelegger here once again defends the property, I can only say: Yeah, let him/it's your ideological access. But: No attack on property is planned; this is a completely perverse twist of things! It is simply a matter of taking a grip – and this is also related to the last point of the debate – if, for example, the revenue from the financial transaction tax does not come, although we should, of course, fight together for it: How will these tax gaps be closed? What is it like now? – It is still true that Austria is a high-tax country for all those who work – whether independent or self-employed; it has hardly changed anything by measures of the past years – but our country is a super tax haven for super-ranges, which is its billions, not millions, in penetrating. hiding. The very large millions of heritages are not even affected! This is almost a unique situation in this world. This is only true of a few “privileged ” dictatorships, where they“ agree! ” This is the situation in Austria – and you say from the ÖVP that this is a “attack to property” if you try to bring in a trace of more justice! I do not know where you have your Christian-social conscience from the ÖVP; obviously no longer in the ÖVP headquarters! But there we have no longer suspected it; I also have to say that. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] To all these budget holes: So what you're planning with Switzerland – I don't know if that's happening, but I'm telling you: From a political-economic point of view, I think this is very questionable, because it would be much more useful to proceed with the power of the European Union and to find out much more in the long term, especially in the fight against tax crime, while you Pardon tax crime; this must also be said. Last point: Financial transaction tax. Yes, that should come – they're all for it anyway – the question is just: how? Mr Krainer, where the balcony muppets sit, is already the question. If we hear Jean-Claude Juncker, then the question is, why, according to what Juncker says, the Austrian Heads of Government have never become conspicuous so far in Brussels or Strasbourg! Anyway, I hope that this will be different in Copenhagen on the weekend. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Intervocations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] We can all put on the battle robe – and it's much better for me anyway, Federal Chancellor, even you put on this battle jacket than you write letters to the “Kronen Zeitung”, but this fight also needs credibility. [[New call-ins]] [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign]] That is why you will finally have to say that you have not yet got the constitutional majority for these so-called rescue shields, where taxpayers are always liable, here in the house, or perhaps you will not get them, if at European level there is nothing going on in the regulation of financial markets or taxation of the same. Mr Bundeskanzler, you have to say that there! – Do it next weekend in Copenhagen!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e11698	Next speaker: Mr Haubner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e11720	Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) High house! I think the stability package is an alternative. We have already explained that there is a compromise on this from two different parties, who, of course, have certain differences. I also say: 98 measures are a comprehensive package. I would also be pleased if the construction savings premium would remain, but to exaggerate as if the construction savings premium at €18 per year would be the economic turbo, is not justified. [[Abg. Scheibner: This is a signal!]] I mean, you should leave the church in the village, too. On colleague Krainer and also on colleague Kogler very briefly: Experts have already found that in the medium term this package will trigger positive employment effects. This is, I believe, also a very important issue that we have taken into account in this package. Austria is not alone, because the financial and debt crisis is affecting Europe as a whole. As tragic as that is, however, it is gratifying that the time of rising public debt is over. Now, however, we must ensure that we do not endanger the economic and, above all, the working location of Austria. We need economic growth, and if we reduce our public debt, we can also generate economic growth in this respect. And there's a two-stage plan for that. The first stage is that once the government budget is consolidated, there is no new debt. And as a second step, one can then start to operate more massively even the reduction of debt. All of Europe is saving, we are not alone – I have already mentioned this – and we have therefore continued to adopt the generous fiscal policy of recent years. We need – and no one is preventing it – to push the reforms even faster, because it is about getting the deficits under control and opening the way for economic growth, because – I have already stressed this – economic growth is the indispensable basis for employment, for prosperity and also for ever-quoted social justice. That is why it is particularly important – once again – that we get the debt under control. We need a state of opportunity and not a state of debt, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] If we decide on this reform package today, we will continue the sustainable consolidation course of the budget. We have 27.9 billion € on the tapet, and we will succeed if we implement it properly, to reach a zero deficit by 2016 and to reverse the trend in the exploding public debt. There is no alternative, ladies and gentlemen! We can't move it, we can't leave it either, because it's too much about the future of our youth. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] What is now hopefully clear to everyone is the fact that the reform package we are deciding on today can only be a first step. We must continue to keep in mind the reform agenda for pensions, health and administration, because state debt through generous social romance and with a disparity in the redistribution policy that we have built for decades can only be managed by comprehensive structural reform. [[Abg. Where are they?]] – I have already stressed it: A first step has been taken, and we must keep in mind the reform agenda, Mr President. [[Abg. Where's that?]] If a reform package is now on the table, which is not based on the tax imaginatives of individual groups, then we have prevented one from doing one thing: site-responsible taxes. Then: It is crucial for the economy that the restructuring of the state budget is not at the expense of the economic location, the entrepreneurs and the jobs, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Because the Federal Chancellor has previously stressed the low youth unemployment: This low youth unemployment in Austria has a reason, and that is dual training. It is the successful model of dual training! [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I particularly emphasize: This model belongs to the promotion – and not to the prranger again! There are some who wish for new apprenticeships and jobs in the economy, but the entrepreneurs who are necessary to do so do not want them. Whoever presents a model for the entrepreneur to pay for punishment if they train fewer apprentices, he does not recognize reality, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Scheibner: Who is this?]] This must be avoided. The fact is that many companies are looking for apprentices, but they have to control at least the basic accounting methods. Our dual training system is seen across Europe, and we have only recently experienced it. Starting with Commission President Barroso, several people are now looking at this model. I mean, we should work together to further increase the image of teaching. With the neglect of companies, we can't start anything there, that's quite clear! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Who's doing this?]] If the trade unions wanted to put an emphasis on dual training with this programme yesterday, I say: This shot is going back, because it's the businessmen who create jobs! They deserve our respect and our appreciation. With each other, we should not work against each other here instead of igniting the old class struggle one-sided again and again! Ladies and gentlemen, we have heard it today: The term ‘justice’, which has been repeatedly strengthened, should not be ruled out when it comes to the economy and the business community in that country. The economy is in good shape. If you look closely at this, you can see that the economic outlook in Austria is much better than being feared. Two thirds of entrepreneurs see economic development in their businesses as positive, one gives faith in an “Economic Sheet” survey, and the question of whether the savings package will harm Austria’s economic location says 65 percent of the respondents’ no. That is, ladies and gentlemen, that we have put in place the right measures with this package to enable investments to be made in order to secure the economic location and to enable companies to do what I believe is a very important point. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Where?]] We should be optimistic. Optimizism should stimulate us and not stimulate us to return to new tax ideas and burdens. Let's let the real economy have their freedom, because it needs it! This will allow us to keep Austria's economic location attractive. Then: The economic location Austria is a model in Europe. That is why we should work, ladies and gentlemen, to ensure that we do not put in place any measures that endanger this location. Economic researchers now also see a positive development: EcoAustria this week: 1.25 percent economic growth in Austria – a clear evidence of what I said: It's going up! We are in a top position in Europe, and we should continue to do so. When considering the consolidation package, it can be noted that important areas of action, such as the pension account, have been set on the reform agenda. That is also a crucial point, as I believe. Because today we are also talking about the financial transaction tax, about black money in Switzerland et cetera: I think it is our task as a parliamentarian that we should do everything we can to support our Minister of Finance in that we can also take these taxes. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Don't give!]] We need to create the framework conditions for this. We're fighting for it! We will fight for this, we will not vote, we will not allow that to happen, but we are a guarantee that the success path of this Republic will continue! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e11890	Next speaker: Mr Scheibner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e11911	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Chancellor, we're coming! – Yes, that was the invitation! [[Federal Chancellor Faymann: To Brussels?]] I assume that Mr Cap, on your behalf, has made it clear that he has called for the opposition to be fought together in Brussels for the Austrian objectives, such as the financial transaction tax. Mr. Federal Chancellor, we're on our way. We're on our way. Just tell us when you are driving, we will be there and we will fight with you on the table in the European Council for finally the financial transaction tax to come and for you to comply with your budget that you have promised! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Or was it, Mr. Federal Chancellor, this time again only an announcement or a word aid from your clubman, who repeatedly invites the opposition to cooperate, but why then always does not become a part of it? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] So we'll take a look at that. Mr Klubobmann Bucher is, I suppose, very willing to do so. [[Abg. Bucher: But we only fly with the AUA!]] All of the opposition will balance their calendar of appointments with that of you, Mr. Federal Chancellor, and we will do so together. Then: We have tabled a joint proposal! Do not act as if we were going to say goodbye to the financial transaction tax! We only criticize that you have an unknown, a variable as fixed in this package witheingeplan. That's unscrupulous! And that is exactly what we are criticising, Federal Chancellor! Of course we want the financial transaction tax! But you know very well that it will only come and have a meaning if as many of the European Union's member countries – if not all – introduce it, for otherwise there will be a competition for eviction, and it will harm more than it benefits. If you say you'd fight so strongly, then really the question is: Where does this come to be, because the report on the conclusions before the European Council does not show any of them. I've already quoted this for the last time here. Mr Bundeskanzler, I ask you: Where's the Austrian manuscript? – It is not recognizable, because in the draft conclusions there is only the following – I quote –: "In the examination of the Commission's proposals ( ) on the financial transaction tax, rapid progress is also needed." That's pretty weak. Austria then said that it was good, there was nothing to change. However, any of the European countries have still to prevail, because what has been decided with your vote, with the Austrian vote, then in the European Council on the financial transaction tax, is quite different, and I quote: ‘Works and deliberations on the Commission’s proposals () on the financial transaction tax should continue.’ Mr. Bundeskanzler, you decide here fixed €500 million a year, a total of €1.5 billion as a contribution to budget recovery through a tax, at which you yourself decide in Europe – where they could fight, whatever you promise to do again and again! – say that work should continue. - After that's fine! I think the European Council was really great at all, because, for example, the question of credit rating agencies is that the European Council will look forward to the results of the Commission. – Expectantly facing! [[Ironic Holiness of the Abg. Bucher.]] Mr. Federal Chancellor, that's nice! [[Interference of Federal Chancellor Faymann.]] Yes, this formulation is “wonderful ”! Only: The problem is that we are not supposed to write and judge German schoolwork here, but here it is about how much the taxpayer has to contribute to this budget recovery. And there he does not expect German essays, beautiful formulations that we can smile at, but he expects a strong Austrian manuscript in these negotiations, which is then reflected here. But that's what we're doing. [[BZÖ and Abg. May. Stefan.]] And as far as this whole savings package is concerned: You can wipe it out now, too, if you say, well, the formal decisions, that must be done now. April will enter into force! ==References== April, which is known to be a Sunday! That is, until Sunday, that is, in four days, the standard subject – and that is also a fact to be observed! If the citizen wants to act in accordance with the law, he should know what you will decide here today and what the Federal Council will decide on the day after tomorrow, I think, in a committee consultation and then at a meeting. I mean, if you have to discuss at all the sensibility of the Federal Council, you have to say: This measure alone leads to ad absurdum! Then: How can it be that in two days' time, when it decides to do so at a short-hour session, the country's representation knows what is good and what is bad for the citizens of the respective federal state? – That means it is simply awakened. And now to the President of the Federal Republic. – The President of the Federal Government, who said no in an uprising of his self-confidence, will not decide, for he cannot carry out the constitutional acknowledgment, but now seems to be able to do so. [[Abg. Grosz: He got a new van!]] Then: With regard to the horrors of taxing taxpayers, everything has to be done with 1. April enters into force, and it seems to be able to do so very quickly, so to speak, as bed linen, to check accordingly and then to prove, and the other things will last longer. [[Abg. Grosz: Now he has got a new BMW, now is a Rua!]] Ladies and gentlemen, this is really an eye-catching! If you would have wanted to negotiate this properly if you would have discussed it properly, you would have planned a different schedule and allowed a different way of treatment here. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Grosz.]] Mr. Cot stupid, as you shake your head [[Abg. Dr. Stummvoll: (on Abg. Showing Grosz) I shook his head because of him!]] This is also one thing: One employee of us was at a bank today and got the information about the building savings banks and found out the following: It is now still being advertised with the state premium of 36 €. Today it is still being advertised for the construction savings contract. In the small print it is then, it is not yet decided. Mrs Finanzminister, that is it; that is the superlativeness which is not appropriate: If today a building-savinger wants to find out what premium he gets, then he gets a wrong information, because his construction-saving contract is also assessed differently in five days, but you say: That's not decided yet! Thank you! That's all I need to say. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] What is still important to us, and because Mr Haubner has said, there will still be reforms: Yes, at least you would have in a resolution – only in a resolution! – shows what else you're planning! There is much to discuss: for example, the reorganisation of administrative competences. And that's... Do we still need a national legislative competence, and if so, in what areas? What are the tasks of the modern state? If you see that the countries could not even agree on a common Youth Protection Act, you have to say: That shows how to be ready here! Or, other example: Punishment of the administration. – We all agreed two years ago to delete a level of school administration. Where's all this now? Everything was put back ad acta. Next point: Social security institution. . We have made the proposal to reduce 22 to three: a social security fund for pensions, one for health and one for accident insurance. - It's a normal thing! We should discuss and talk about this! However, there has not even been a project report submitted here by you. Or: the whole area of pensions. – Why not delete the hackler-pension, this privilege with the officials who need 40 years instead of 45 years like everyone else? [[Abg. Grosz: For the officials, yes! The Director of Parliament!]] [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign.]] There are still a lot of proposals to be made here. But they do not want to discuss it. I want this package to be discussed properly. Let us give you another opportunity, namely, to refer this package back to committee on a request I am submitting here. If you are honest with me, and not like the Minister of Finance, who says: It is no matter what the individual taxpayer thinks we are, then you agree to this request!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e12097	Next speaker: Mrs Csörgits. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e12119	Mr President. Dear Members of the Federal Government! I will concentrate in my debate on the labour market and pensions, because these areas are the largest in the present Stability Pact as far as the budget is concerned. There are also measures and reforms between these two areas, both in the field of work and in the pension sector, and since they cannot be separated. First of all, let me start with the area of pensions! – To this end, I can say that a single pension account will be issued by 2014. This single pension account will bring a variety of benefits to the administration, but also, of course, to citizens, to pensioners and, above all, to workers. This single pension account, ladies and gentlemen, leads to a simplified, more understandable and, above all, more transparent pension calculation. In the future, every insured person/insurer will have the opportunity to check at any time how high the pension he/she has to expect. On the one hand, this will mean that some workers/some of the employees will consider whether it would be more useful to work even longer if he/she is healthy – we want to ensure this with a variety of measures – but on the other hand I also promise that many women who work part-time in Austria and then look into the pension account will perhaps have a conversation with the employer to try to extend their working time, because, of course, part-time, as we know, also means that there is a lower pension. I therefore believe that this pension account, ladies and gentlemen, will bring many benefits. There will also be simplification for the administration, because at present there is a variety of effort. There is a need for access to three legal bases, given the parallelity required, as it is so well called in the technical jargon. With the removal of these measures, it will also facilitate our colleagues in pension insurance, and this will also open up many opportunities for direct care for customers of pension insurance. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Let me now say that, in the context of better funding in the pension system, there is an increase in pension insurance contributions from farmers and traders. These are brought closer to the employees' contributions. The service providers in this country will also make a fair contribution by increasing the contribution base. Ladies and gentlemen, it is also very important to me to correct what has been put in the room by some previous speakers and what is wrong: There will be no zero wage round in connection with pensioners. [[A short technical disturbance occurs with the microphone.]] I think this is very important, so I repeat it because there is obviously a power failure now: In connection with the increase in pensions, there will be no zero wage rounds among pensioners and pensioners, but the increase will be only slightly lower. I should like to remind you that in many other European countries, unfortunately, there has been a significant reduction in pensions. Our Federal Government believes that this is the wrong way. And I thank you very much for the fact that this is also possible. We will also ensure that, in particular, those involved in low pensions receive something in order to maintain purchasing power in Austria with this group as well. Now to some interfaces related to the labour market and to the pension area. I can say that the proven system of part-time age remains in place with a decisive improvement. In particular, persons who have already benefited from the so-called block-time variant in shift operations, but also in assembly plants, will continue to have the possibility of block-age part-time. However, an improvement will occur in the sense that any person who is using this model will be an additional worker, which will at the same time lead to a redundancie on the labour market, which I consider very important and very necessary. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I would also like to mention that by the year 2017 it will be a gradual increase in the protection of activities from 57 to 60. It's gonna be a year of life. But since we also do not want to put this group of persons in a difficult situation unprotected, there will also be a wide range of skills for this group of persons, and other instruments will be made available in the context of labour market policy in order to ensure that these people can stay longer in the work process. Ladies and gentlemen, some comments on the labour market. We are in Austria in the happy situation that we have the lowest unemployment rate in the European Union, and we also have a very low unemployment rate among young people. Nevertheless, this Federal Government – and I would like to express my express thanks to the Federal Minister for Labour, Social Affairs and Consumer Protection – will provide additional € 750 million under this stabilisation package for a labour market offensive by 2016. That is to say, we, this Federal Government, sees it as its most important task to do everything we can to further reduce the unemployment rate and maintain employment in Austria. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e12200	Next speaker: Mrs Schittenhelm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e12221	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! If we really and seriously want to put our Austria back on healthy legs, it is an absolute need to decide and implement this consolidation package. This consolidation package reflects not only the power of the Federal Government, but also no alternative. And in everything we're discussing today in numbers: It is not just about the figures in the budget, it is about the objectives that we have set together and which we want to achieve together. And I'm really doing this globally. Our major goal is to maintain and strengthen the high quality of life of the citizens of Austria. That's what we want. We want to give our citizens the assurance that tomorrow they will still receive the benefits in the health field they need, that they will receive their pension tomorrow, just as they deserved it under the Generational Treaty. We want them to continue to have the security to get the care they need tomorrow, and we want the families that are ready to be there for children to take on responsibility for children to get as much support as they have up to now. We also need confidence in the economy and in the labour market in order not only to strengthen the economy but above all to secure jobs. This also means a security of the families in this case. In order for this to be possible, ladies and gentlemen, we must simply adhere to the three principles that Mr Spindelegger and our Mrs Finanzminister presented to us. First of all: useful savings in the structure to achieve sustainable effects; not for today, for 2012 and for tomorrow, but for sustainable! Therefore: Structural changes in administration, structural changes in the pension – my predecessor mentioned this. But we also need one – how should I say? – Decoupling the federal, regional and local funding guidelines is an essential aspect. Secondly, We need to make up for additional revenue. Yes, of course! And there are tax gaps to be closed. I do not understand the Freedom Party why it does not want to bring these un taxed funds back, at least in part, from Switzerland and Liechtenstein. I want to. I don't understand that one of them is paying good taxes while the other is spending their money in Switzerland, and we say we don't attack that. It is right to demand this, and our Minister of Finance Maria Fekter will do the same. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Thirdly, Above all, it also needs offensive funds for investments in the labour market, in education and research. That's an absolute necessity. And there you have to say quite clearly: If we do not equal these offensives to the savings package, there will be no positive development. Our goal, the goal of the People's Party, was to achieve consolidation by saving expenditure in a majority way. We succeeded. 76 percent of consolidation measures come from the expenditure side, 24 percent from the revenue side. After all, we have to imagine that this is inconceivable – a total volume of € 26.5 billion, which we are talking about today. In order for the economy to flourish and not stagnate – that would be the worst thing that can happen to us – great effort is needed – not only polemics that you find when you read the headlines of various newspapers – from all of us, ladies and gentlemen. All the experts in the budget hearing – all those in the Committee on Budgets know that – have basically given us the right to ensure that the measures envisaged will also be effective. However, they also need to be implemented. In particular, they have also referred to the fact that not only the federal government, but also the post-legislative bodies, countries and communities here must contribute to it. Yes, the countries do, also we in the communities. I had a meeting yesterday evening, an information event with citizens for the thermal renovation of a large residential block. Yes, what do you think, what question was in the foreground? – Not the question of how thick the jacket will be, which lines will come, but whether thermal renovation will be promoted this year or perhaps even next year. That's what moves people! And we have also ensured the means for thermal rehabilitation. We give 100 million € annually in this pot, and this until 2016. This will trigger an economic impulse of €800 million, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] These are at least 12 500 jobs in the construction sector and in similar areas. That's what people have to say: This is your job that we can secure here. Of course, we also need resources for families and for education. €55 million will be allocated to childcare facilities by 2014, ladies and gentlemen. 20 000 new childcare places! I can only tell the families – maybe they look at a mother or a father today: Yes, we support you! We'll help you! We support your family work! We will help you to raise your children! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It will also be in school care in the afternoon. Yes, the families need this support. They want to know their children well after class. And for this, 400 million € are also planned by 2014. There will be more in the 60 000 care places for children, who will not only be cared for in education but also have a meaningful afternoon care. New secondary school – always discussed, no one said it today –: For this purpose, €346 million is planned. This money flows directly into the classes of schools, financed six additional hours for our children. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, this stabilisation package is a real act of strength. I very much hope that we can implement and implement this together, because we need stable finances, a strong economy so that our country can take a positive development.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e12325	Next speaker: Mr Themessl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e12346	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! Values Advisors! I would now have liked to ask a question to the financial speakers of the ÖVP and SPÖ, but they have obviously both agreed, because they no longer believe in what is there. But one thing is clear, I ask the question to you, you'll all be right that 256 is more than 219. There has been compulsory education in Austria since Maria Theresia, and people's school has already taught them, and every popular student knows today that 256 is just more than 219. I'll tell you what I want now. We currently have a debt in Austria of € 219 billion. According to the budget schedule of this Federal Government, we will have a debt of € 256 billion in 2016. And ÖVP and SPÖ do not leave an opportunity to go out here and say that we are no longer making new debts, we are decommissioning debts, debt is a crime to our youth, to our grandchildren, and that must be done now. And that's how it happens. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] So, but now we're just making more debts of €40 billion in the next four years and adding them to the highest debt we already have. You can explain this to the population! Do you think anyone else's gonna lose you? You forget to say – this is the next mistake you have – that you always see the debt in terms of gross domestic product. If you, Mrs Finanzminister, assume that in 2016 the debt level will be 70 percent of GDP, then you need to know, however, that at € 256 billion, GDP must already amount to € 368 billion. At the moment, GDP is €300 billion. That is to say, the economic researchers and all those who predict the economic figures of the next few years have lost their way or do not believe them, because in this case, GDP would have to grow by 2% to 3% each year. And that's where all economic experts tell you that this won't be the case. And neither does this bill go out. – So much for your bills and for this whole budget. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr Haubner, you said that you would be right if the construction premium remained. Yes, you had the opportunity 14 days ago. We have tabled a request here, even calling for a nameable vote, in which we have called for the construction premium to remain the same. But you, all your friends and members from the Economic Union, voted against it. I am still excited how you will vote on this budget. If I hear the statements of your boss Leitel and even the workers' chamberers all hear, I wonder how you have this positive attitude to economic growth, because they criticise it. And you can expect, I suppose. You have 17 Members in your ranks who come from the Economic Union. If you add those to the 75 of the opposition and take your own media broadcasts seriously, then it must be assumed that this budget does not go through at all. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Head.]] And the Minister for Finance has already told Mr Scheibner that this has not yet been decided. So, obviously, it's counting on the economic union to fall down today. That's how it's going to be. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And now we're coming to the economy. They say that will not burden the economy. A few numbers. What you're forgetting is that the Pröll-Sparpaket, which was decided about a year ago, has, by the way, been unconstitutional so as not to be abolished. The whole thing is going on, and in part it will only have an impact in this year and next year. The following decision was taken: Increase in the GSVG contribution rate, non-reduction of the minimum basis of contribution, increase in contribution rate night heavy work law, increase in the maximum basis of contribution in pension insurance, by the way the second within three years, increase in the maximum basis of contribution in health insurance, increase in the maximum basis of contributions in accident insurance, full ALV contributions from 63. Year of life. – So much for your intentions to keep older workers in working life longer. That's air and trust, what you're giving here, as far as you're looking at. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] A total burden over the next few years of €1.6 billion for the Austrian economy! And then you say that this will not affect the labour market!Unknown term type: "%s".? To what the experts said. Mrs Schittenhelm, I was also in the Budget Committee. Lehner, ÖVP, has said there are uncertainty factors. He criticises that no tax reform will be made by 2016. Marterbauer, SPÖ, says the banking situation is unstable. The economic development will break down. In the next two years, he expects even more 20 000 unemployed. Rossmann of the Greens has said that this budget leads to a recession, stagnation is preprogrammed. Unemployment will rise. - Yes, I don't know where you're from. You don't even believe your own experts from WIFO, IHS and what they're all called. They pay them, but you don't believe them. That's crazy! ‘social balance’ means: Mrs Finanzminister, also the lowest third of the wage earners who do not pay 30 days will be charged. And on the other hand, you've already made a bank deal in the silent room, namely regarding the stock market, you know exactly what I mean with the new basis or assessment as at 31. March. But I'd love to explain that to you if you don't know what I mean. ==References== April is actually a day when jokes are made. If that were not so sad and if it did not affect Austrian workers and the unemployment rate, it would really be a joke to decide to have this budget with 1. In April, the Commission adopted a proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to turnover taxes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e12427	Next speaker: Mrs. Dr. Lichtenecker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e12448	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! The social balance is a concept that has been repeatedly emphasized, in particular by Mr Bundeskanzler. And I'm telling you, ask the taxi drivers, masseurs, Traficants, photographers, physiotherapists and many more in this country, which one of them has in common, they are so-called one-person companies. And exactly these one-person companies, micro-enterprises will tell you that they feel nothing of this social balance, because they belong to the large group of those who are threatened with poverty. And their risk is much higher. In addition, the social network is becoming a poverty trap for them. The social security contributions are very high compared to their income. As a result, they increasingly get into a plot, into a downward spiral of debt, execution and interest payment. Ladies and gentlemen, there is something going wrong in this country when de facto almost 20 percent of insured self-employed are admonished and 9 percent of the executive is standing at the doorstep at all! This cannot be socially balanced in this form, no, the savings package brings further hardships with it. Even the decided reduction in the minimum contribution base has been withdrawn and postponed for a very long time. Ladies and gentlemen, these are people who cannot wait to come up with improvements in six or ten years' time. They need it now. And it's an advantage for these one-person companies when you go here at the same time and buy 105 luxury limousines that cost €8 million. There these people feel embarrassed in their work, in their livelihoods. And you should remember that it is precisely now about securing these groups of persons and creating fair conditions here. That is to say to deny the minimum basis of contributions and, of course, to abolish the retention of the right to medical visits and, of course, to a viable and viable unemployment insurance. All of this is now necessary to ensure fairness and justice and to secure this important support of the Austrian economy. Of course, we also miss many other areas in this package. It was always the talk of the reforms, it was always the talk of investment in the future. Yes, of course, it is an important step that now at last the renovation of houses is taking place, in order to also contribute to climate protection and that households have lower energy costs. But why did that happen? – One reason was that we Greens have called for and operated this for years until you have finally become more mint and implemented it. Yeah, that's good. Nevertheless, the reforms are still missing. We have an obsolete tax system. We are final in the tax on property, environmental taxes. Mrs Minister, it is long overdue to introduce reforms here while at the same time reducing the high labour costs, i.e. taking a right and important step in property taxes, in financial transaction tax and, of course, in the environmental and social design of the tax system – something that is long overdue – and, of course, with regard to investments in the future. Ladies and gentlemen, if you look at the expenditure in the field of science and research at the Federal Financial Framework, then ask It is de facto a stagnation or a decline, something which will seriously damage this economic location in the medium term, the jobs in Austria. And summa summarum is that too little investment in the future, even if there are some right approaches. Summary: The package does not include a vision where Austria should be 2020. It's not very forward-looking and not fair. It's a crazy chance we're having to fight with right now.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e12509	Next speaker: Mr Grosz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e12531	High house! In a rare attack of courage, the President-in-Office rightly said something a few weeks ago. He found that he met from Friday, the day after tomorrow, when the Federal Council met, to the 1st. April, i.e. within two days, in view of the fullness of the laws of the Federal Government cannot carry out their certification. – “Selten attack of courage” because it is not common for President Heinz Fischer to express himself in this way. But that's already gone again. This initial courage to stand up against the federal government's scrapping policy has disappeared. And today I guarantee you one: The President of the Federal Republic of Germany will take control of his filler holder on Saturday and will inadvertently sign all the laws of this red and black federal government. And of the mystery solution why he does that, we read today in the “Kronen Zeitung” on page 2 “Heinz Fischer is already driving from Easter new luxury service car”. [[the speaker keeps the corresponding newspaper articles up to date]] To avoid making competition in the media market: The daily “ÖsterREICH” also says the same. That is to say, the Federal Government has recognized the puberty of the office of Presidential Chancellery quite well. They said, "No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, If the Federal President holds five new service BMWs, 7 BMWs, then he can compensate the rest of the smallness of his office a little – or whatever – and then without fail he signs all the laws that he wants. But we are already on this issue: At a time when the people of this country are finally expecting reforms from the Austrian Federal Government, as Josef Bucherdas said today – the combination of the 22 social security institutions, Zig thousands of employees who continue to manage the injustice in the health system, the committed reform of the political systems in the country and the abolition of the useless Federal Council, which no longer even needs the porter of Parliament or intends to be interested – we are going at this time. You come here and order generously as you are, 105 new 7 BMWs worth € 8 million, paid by the taxpayer. This is exactly this self-image of a retired federal government, which, first of all, has lost its ground liability, and secondly, in its ink castles no longer hears what people in that country think about them, and thirdly, completely abominable when it comes to ensuring the efficient handling of tax money. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Then Mr. Spindelegger and Mr. Faymann sit at home in the evening at the mummy beautiful in Stüberl and look a little away. And then you see in a U.S. film how a U.S. president stands out from the big service limousine. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] And then little Werner and little Michael Spindelegger think: Well, we'd like that, too, such a armored limousine. We need a 7-man BMW like that! – And then, at the expense of the taxpayer in our country, you have immediately 8 million € to order 105 new service cars in this Republic at the height of a savings package. And that's where we say: Enough paid, ladies and gentlemen! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] We expect a savings package that is finally changing this system in the country. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler]] Benefits You have this time before Easter to practice Ascese! Benefits You have this time until the Car Friday and Easter Sunday, to think about whether we are not using this political system on the wall, whether we are not investing with this billion euros we invest in Greece, with this billion euros that we invest in the hacker's pension for the highest officials, with these billions of euros that we finance in representation costs of the Federal Government – including the ÖBB backpack and ASFINAG – whether we are at last going off with this billion euros and saving where it is necessary, and not how you increase taxes, taxes – real estate tax and, and, and, and, and the people in this country. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Tamandl.]] By the way, you don't do anything with the fuel: 1,70 € we will now celebrate to Easter. – The people in this country are being burdened, and you no longer live up to the deficits that people feel in their money markets. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I'm not just talking about the commuters, I'm talking about the mothers and the fathers who have to lead their children to school in the early days, because you themselves fail in public transport. Ladies and gentlemen! We want a meaningful reform, a meaningful saving, a humility and ascetics of the political administration in this country, but not what you are presenting to this House today for decision-making, which your own President has said he does not even want to sign that – of course, before he gets his own van, that is always well said. I would therefore also like to make a request so that this delusion is finally stopped: [[Quoted print version removed]] A drop on the hot stone, €8 million, but in the committees of this Parliament there are hundreds of requests from the BZÖ and 599 proposals from the Court of Auditors, how to actually save in this country at the expense of the system and not at the expense of the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e12657	Now Mrs. Federal Minister Dr. Fekter is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e12678	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen, here in the House and in front of the television screens! This package, which we are debating here today, is based on three major pillars. The first pillar is the reform agenda. We have taken a consolidation path along major reforms and also reform steps, which should lead to cost reduction in a sustainable way. It is not a matter of putting money together, it is a reform agenda. We should succeed in bringing the actual retirement age closer to the legal one. I would also like to thank my colleague, who is the owner of the ÖBB, who is responsible for the fact that early pensions are no longer available there and that the actual retirement age is increased. We have also tried with the officials and together with the administration to reduce double-tracking and to bring more efficiency and modernity into administration, through 98 laws that will be discussed today – 98! The objection debate in the early part of the debate has shown that all this is relatively much. Yes, thank God, it is a great reform agenda. In the field of health, we have agreed that health costs should not grow faster than gross domestic product, i.e. 3.4 percent, so that costs do not explode, and that we jointly – federal, state and social insurance – make a target control with regard to the optimal supply of health infrastructure to the population. The fourth major area was support. At present, we have the minimum standards for funding in the field of assessment, and we would like to see more coordination in the field of funding together with the countries. This reform agenda has then led to the consolidation path, together with the countries and communities, allowing us to have a zero deficit in 2016. At the same time – in addition to reform agenda and consolidation path – we have also launched an offensive programme. 1 billion more for universities, 1 billion more for schools, continuation of the offensive on day care, an eGovernment offensive, because modern administration cannot stop with eGovernment. We get new registers and a new citizen-friendly communication in the management field at the federal level. As mentioned above, we also continue the thermal renovation. In the foreground of our overall political action is ecologisation. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This very large package of reforms and consolidation, however, had to be penetrating in such a way that we do not slow down growth, so that we do not inhibit investment and thus maintain jobs. Because only if we secure all jobs can we successfully carry out this consolidation path. He must not be inflational. That is why we have not considered mass taxation, ladies and gentlemen, and we have done nothing to endanger the location, which would have been harmful to the location. We have achieved that the measures at the federal level will be 76.6 percent on the expenditure side and only 23.4 percent on the revenue side. At country level, we also have a consolidation path. We will adopt a Stability Pact with the countries and communities which are also committed to the zero deficit. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gartelgruber.]] There, however, the countries get about half of their consolidation path as revenue on income. Because here was so doubted about what we're doing. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! With regard to these doubts, strongly stated also in autumn with regard to the previous budgets. We have completed the 2011 budget much better than the initial estimate was, and I am convinced that the good economy, the jobs, the business of the Austrians and the Austrians' tax performance will lead to our keeping this path. [[Interoperability call at the BZÖ]] [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] We are with Switzerland in intensive discussions regarding this tax, a tax for tax refugees. In other words, Switzerland supplies us with a tax for the past and then supplies the tax of those taxpayers who brought their money to Switzerland. There we are in intense discussions. We focus on what Germany has already paraphrased and what we already know about Great Britain and Switzerland. This is not an air bubble, these are very concrete agreements, the contents of which we are currently discussing most along this line in the discussions with the Swiss people. [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign.]] And I hope we get this back home in the year. And, of course, we will fight for the transaction tax, just as the House has told us. Finally, I can tell all pensioners who have an additional pension and consider whether they accept the offer that we have made this offer even more attractive in the final negotiations. They will have an advantage of more than 15 percent if they accept the offer of the government and then get their supplementary pensions largely tax-free. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grosz]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e12785	The motion for a resolution before us is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e12843	Next speaker: Mr. State Secretary Mag. Arbitrator. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e12864	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the government bank! Federal Chancellor! High house! Ladies and gentlemen on television screens which are following this debate today, and of course they are also asking questions about the entire consolidation package and the economic and financial situation. I would like to stress once again why this Federal Government has presented such a package and why we are also discussing it: because it is a question of making our country more independent of financial markets, which have become increasingly crazy and which are also increasingly a problem through lower re-indebtedness and a medium-term balanced budget. That is to say, to regain scope for action in the future, to also have the opportunity to respond to problems when something happens in the economic system – just as we did when the economic crisis broke out and actually brought our country well through the crisis compared to many other countries in Europe. One example is that we have the lowest unemployment in Europe. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] When it comes to scope for action, it is also about not destroying economic growth, but, on the contrary, promoting it, and, therefore, in the offensive packages, focusing on education, research, universities and infrastructure, to see that our country, our future economic growth, will be sustained. This is not only a consolidation package but also a reform package. All I say is that closing gaps in justice within the tax system is not only a consolidation contribution, but it is also a necessary structural step, just as I think it is correct and necessary for reasons of justice, but also for financial reasons, that the assets in this country also make a major contribution to the restructuring of the state budget on this package. [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. Franz.]] Structural measures can also be found where we increase the actual retirement age and thus give people in our country the opportunity to stay in employment longer – there are also financial incentives and systems created to enable this in the future – just as it is about ensuring quality in our health system through reasonable reforms and better control optimization, and thus ensuring that there is a sustainable public health system in Austria. Similarly, many projects concerning efficient management, the combination of units, have long been found out that two units are not necessary. I would like to remind you of all this, because it is already the case that in many areas of administrative reform, in many details here, we are now implementing the necessary reforms. I would also like to stress once again that the majority – almost everything on the revenue side – comes from large assets and large businesses. This is the solidarity of the top earners, which is the real estate and speculation tax, which brings 750 million volume annually, that is the restriction on group tax, which is the financial transaction tax, the tax on remuneration, the removal of agricultural diesel compensation and the closure of tax loopholes, such as the pre-tax deduction. Let me also say something quite clearly about the two projects discussed in the last few days: Especially those who doubt whether or not a debit tax with Switzerland is possible or not should be said that we cannot see that Austrian money, which is un taxed in Switzerland, remains un taxed. All those who talk about black work and black money accounts, about closing tax gaps, tax justice, must also say: This is an important contribution to greater tax justice. And whoever doubts that this is possible, it is said: Germany has already negotiated an agreement with Switzerland, the English also, and today – it is recommended to the colleague of the BZÖ to read foreign newspapers as well – is a long article on how far this has already been done and how realistic it is, by the way, with the headline: “Switzerland wants to save tax agreements at all costs” – wherever one sees that there is great movement in this area. As you know, the discussions on the Austrian and Swiss civil servants' sides have already gone a long way. Financial transaction tax: I think it is really wrong, we would now, if at last the discussion started and, of course, also There are doubts expressed by those who are not entirely convinced of the financial transaction tax. On the contrary: We are in favour of the financial transaction tax. We think it is necessary for many reasons. That is why this federal government will fight for it and not, if a negative example comes from Germany, throw the flint into the grain. We will continue to fight for the financial transaction tax! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Here, too, the detail is crucial. Especially when you look at this and learn about it – everyone who has a sister party in Germany will do so, with the FDP you have to hurry – then you see, of course, this is also a German internal policy problem that is being dealt with here. But in yesterday's information, the German Minister of Finance told all the leaders of the political groups in the Bundestag. He has said that he does not want to be understood in such a way that he wants to cancel the financial transaction tax, but that he only sees many difficulties across Europe, but is still examining many other possibilities. That is why, I believe, the solution in Austria can only be that of staying on it. I would even like to warn that those who jump up now and say: Then let the financial transaction tax remain the same!, then also those who obviously do not want this sector to make a contribution. With us it's exactly the other way round: We want this sector to make an important contribution in the future, and we will fight for it. The chances of a financial transaction tax coming into Europe are still good. That is why it is now about using the next two years that it will also come. In this sense, I would also like to thank you for your understanding of this savings package. I know it also requires victims and difficulties, but it is the right path for the stability of our country from my point of view.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e12962	For the next round of speakers, 3 minutes and a final sentence are available per speech. I'm asking for time discipline. Mr Herzegovina is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e12986	Mr President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! So there is new and socially just revenue. There are two cuts in expenditure. By the way, the ratio is 41 to 59 percent, as the economic research institute has calculated. There is a third tax crime, and this must be fought in a massive way! I should like to join with the Secretary of State in the following speech: € 14 to 20 billion in black money in Switzerland, ladies and gentlemen! A calculation by Mr Raidl, President of the National Bank. [[Abg. May. Kogler: That's what you want to get 5 percent, isn't it?]] Or as Friedrich Schneider, economist at Linz University, predicts for 2012: 4 billion tax evasion, tax debt 7 billion. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] What is the history, ladies and gentlemen, and what are the measures? Why do we have such an explosion of economic and tax crime, why such a dramatic decline in morals, including tax morality? – Well, you from the FPÖ are not quite innocent, but decisively responsible! For who are the protagonists of this decay? – A grassman who was FPÖ’s Deputy Head of State, FPÖ Federal Managing Director, FPÖ Finance Minister, Mr Strache! [[Abg. Strache: Currently, those who are suspected of painting come from the ÖVP!]] Or Mr Meischberger: FPÖ Federal Council, FPÖ National Council, Deputy FPÖ Klubobmann, FPÖ General Secretary. Or a Mr. Rumpold: FPÖ Country Managing Director, FPÖ Federal Council, FPÖ Federal Managing Director. Especially with Rumpold, you, Mr Strache, also have joint companies that you have operated there, for example a Care Partners GesmbH. There is also the question of who has done healthy business here in the Committee of Inquiry. Or an ESS Security Services: Well, what's been secured in this security company, Mr. Strache? [[Abg. Strache: An ÖVP Secretary-General has already been legally condemned!]] Has it been assured that € 760,000 has migrated from EADS via Rumpold to FPÖ when you were a party observer? [[Abg. Street:... you only under the protection of parliamentary immunity...!]] [[Further calls.]] This is all transparent, Mr Strache! Well, and because you tried unsuccessfully here with a “Pippi Langstrumff” spell, I'll hold you against the Brothers Grimm: “Oh, how good that no one knows I’m hot rumpold sticks”! That's how it looks, Mr. Strache! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. New builder: That's exactly your level, Mr. Herbs!]] And the measures, ladies and gentlemen: As in the USA, as in Germany, it will succeed – well, of course! – to conclude an agreement with Switzerland and to gain access to these black money. However, we need – and I am quite clear from you, Mrs Finanzminister – an offensive with regard to tax and social security fraud. But we also need large-scale auditors. This is calculated all the time, because between €500 000 and € 1 million, such a tester is achieved. We also need to take a very close look at the tax debt. Income tax: 1.3 billion debts! Sales tax: 2.8 billion! Experts from the Ministry of Finance also say: 1.7 billion are immediately enforceable. [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign.]] – There’s a lot to do here, here’s a lot of money to get! That's what we're trying to do together.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e13100	Next speaker: Mr Grillitsch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e13131	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr Herb, we also have a Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! Austria has, I believe, made a good economic and location policy in the last 12 years. This enabled us to secure jobs. This enabled us to secure income. This ensured value added in Austria. This is why, through this policy of the last 12 years, the crisis is well covered, better than other countries! Now it is important to save sustainably and do the right and necessary. Sustainable saving and structural reforms also clearly bear the manuscript of our Austrian People's Party and our Minister for Finance. [[Abg. Graubur:... with the farmers!]] Ladies and gentlemen, people are contributing because they know something is to be done. Everyone makes their contribution, the farmers also make their contribution! It has just been announced with joy that the agricultural diesel is being removed. That hurts the farmers, but this is also a contribution to this Stability Pact, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Neubauer:... your contribution!]] In order for us to ultimately invest in the future, everyone must also make his contribution. I am very glad that the ratio between expenditure and revenue is true: 76 : 24, a unique value in Europe, even the highest savings in the last 25 years, ladies and gentlemen! We have negotiated well, our Minister of Finance has negotiated well: 20 of 24 new tax tax ideas were negotiated away! This is important and necessary in order to ultimately ensure the economic location of Austria accordingly, ladies and gentlemen, in order also to prevent the deportation taking place in order to also prevent empty production sites in the regions from remaining behind and unemployed. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] That is why this Stability Pact is particularly important. Ladies and gentlemen, we face major challenges. We have a demographic explosion, the people get older, the people get healthy, we have too few boys. That is why we must now consider how we can secure the pension system, how we can secure the social system, how we can secure the health system, ladies and gentlemen! These measures are therefore essential. Let me speak to a wormhead drop because he also touches me personally as a steirer and an oversteirer. These are the deletions of infrastructure measures, ladies and gentlemen, the removal of planning and further expansion of S 37. This hurts us because this gap in the south has to be done too! I therefore call on the Heads of State of Voves and Dörfler today and here to start negotiations with the Federal Government immediately so that this expansion can continue. I am glad that the expansion of the S 36 can finally be started, from St. Georgen to Scheifling. But it is equally necessary to extend the road from Jüdenburg to Scheifling, because there are a lot of commuters there, because it is also important to secure the economic location in this home country accordingly. [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign]]
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e13193	Next speaker: Mr Podgorschek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e13215	Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! Mr President. Mrs Federal Minister Fekter, you have announced today that the municipalities and countries will also make their contribution. I can only recommend: Check out ORF online! It is very important that the Court of Auditors has just found: The countries are missing their savings targets at weitems. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter: 2005! That's past!]] Yeah, I know... [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter: 2005!]] And what was in the past will be different in the future – that will You don't believe it yourself! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] But I would like to talk about something quite different, namely how our colleagues are being behaved by the Economic and Social Committee today. There we have the Secretary General of the Sparkassenverband – he is not sitting here right now – who has announced or written very much in the “Sparkassenzeitung”: “A structural misjudgment is now compounded by a 25-percent supplement: Otherwise, from a savings point of view, the increase in the bank tax to a total of 625 million. Don’t comment on the best will.” Then he also writes: "We have to deal with a serious scapegoat. Instead of that already two years ago (!) Insolvency rights announced by the government for banks to allow orderly liquidation of credit institutions – as would be the case with any other company! – means, among other things, of the Austrian... Banks whose business model has obviously failed’. Now I am waiting for you to agree today on a motion for a resolution which I am submitting on a new banking bankruptcy system. I shall see how Members of the Economic and Social Committee will act now. Among other things, there is also a major reason for this budget, as was presented to us today, to run out of the row and end up in a corresponding misdeed. For this load package I guarantee you: The future tax packages will also be justified by the unresolved problems of the banking sector in Austria! Take by continuous shooting You are the real economy money, you also deduct from taxpayers corresponding taxes, increase the tax and tax rate, and the budget has billions of holes that we can no longer stop. In the past, this system has already begun in the 1980s. More than 40 months after the outbreak of the financial crisis in September 2008, the Austrian banking restructuring continues to take place in the surgical intensification station. More than 40 months are apparently only used to cover up, safeguard personal interests, supply and disposal of red-black bankers and personnel. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I now have the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If we do not finally ensure that order enters into this system, this system will collapse sooner or later. The government has deserved to be driven there before us, and the banks, employees and savers have deserved a solution at last.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e13295	The motion for a resolution tabled is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e13366	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Pilz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e13389	Ladies and gentlemen! With the savings package – no matter who submits it – it depends on who is saved and who pays. That is why I will not reorganise the budget, but that would be a sign of good will, a very simple motion for a resolution, which reads as follows: ‘The National Council wants to decide: The Federal Government is invited to distance itself from the acquisition of luxury cars, as they are currently announced by the Bundesbebeschaffing GmbH, and to ensure that in the future, the Federal Ministry of Finance’s passenger vehicle procurement is based on the German passenger car adequacy regulation.” I'll tell you why. When I met this call last week, I looked through the tender documents and looked at what 105 members of the government and top officials there urgently needed – by €8 million! –: [[Abg. Rädler:... rides Glavischnig in BMW!]] They need ambient light, they need steering wheel heating, they need effect painting – whatever that is – and they need, above all, completely, urgently massage seats in the fond. [[Abg. May. Kogler: At least the facade is right!]] Massage seats in the find, this has to be purchased now! For this to happen, there must now be €8 million so that the Federal Chancellor, the Vice chancellor, the Minister of Finance, the heads of state in the service car in the fund can be massaged automatically! – So, these are the obvious concerns of the Federal Government. We have something else to worry about. We worry about where corruption is saved. 25 billion are available! And we're asking: Why is the Ministry of Finance fighting the tax evasion of the rich in Switzerland? – Mrs. Dr. Fekter, you know you could get 12 billion! They offer Switzerland 1 billion and say: Let's give 11 billion! Why Give You may be more than €10 billion – at least from income and wealth – of nearby tax evaders? Why don't you make a savings package for tax evasion? - That's a big question. And then there is no money for universities, no money for pensions, no money for ecological conversion, no money for the energy transition, no money for culture, no money for kindergartens – but there is money for massage seats and for organized tax evasion! Mrs. Dr. Fekter, these are just two of many points of a savings package that just collapsed. [[Abg. Rädler: That's not true!]] [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign.]] About one I'm sure [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign again]] This savings package will last as long as your luxury car purchase, and we will see ourselves shortly after Easter to continue to negotiate a real savings package, which also concerns tax evasion and luxury cars. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] Then it's going to be reasonable, I promise you today. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e13476	The motion for a resolution tabled is under negotiation. The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e13549	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Widmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e13570	Mr President. High house! Mrs Financier! You have to explain something to me today – Stability Act, Minister of Finance: What is stable about this law? Is it stable that the citizens who are being taxed are being reduced? Is it stable that further debts are made? Is it stable that no real reforms take place? Or is it stable that there is no future prospects for young people in this country, in education, in science, in research, or in the development of renewable energy? Stabil is nothing in this law! In addition, if you think that one third of the planned revenue of €28 billion is in Swiss cheese holes, I say, but is not real. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen on the government bank, you said – I quote Mrs Fekter from the “Economic News” of two months ago – that: "We want to reduce the debt with structural reforms, not with new taxes. Saving measures shall not endanger the location’. The Economic Federation has put in a great place for this. Where has this been, Mrs. Finanzminister? – It's all gone, we won't find anything. On the contrary, the SPÖ has said that it will scrape the rich. What's the result? – By 2016, we have more revenue of €7 billion in wage taxation through the cold progression, as you raise the middle class by €7 billion. And the solidarity levy is just €440 million, which is 7 percent. 7 per cent rich people are shrinking, 93 per cent of the middle class – that is your understanding of solidarity at the SPÖ! We reject it. Next point: They will also ensure that older workers remain in employment more quickly because they will simply delete the unemployment insurance contributions which have not been paid since a certain age. How does this fit together: work longer, but remove benefits? – Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, this will not work! We have the same thing when we save the building. You'll halve the building-saving premium. This will also cause a great deal of damage. [[President Dr. Graf takes over the chairmanship.]] What we need are reforms: Reforms which are on the table in Parliament, reforms proposed by the Court of Auditors. Whatever we need is the abolition of the proportion! In Austria, the proportion of reforms is most massive: the proportion in the forced chambers, in 22 social insurance institutions, in energy suppliers, in the school administration, at the ORF, at the ASFINAG, at the AMA, at ÖIAG, at the AUA et cetera, et cetera. Everything red-black occupied, until the last club, until the last school in Austria! There is a need to ensure that the friends are well cared for, that is quite clear – and this also blockes massive reforms in Austria! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I welcome from this point of view the Freistadter Bundesgymnasium, the classes 4c and 4d, with Professor Dolläubl and Professor Schwarz at the top. My daughter's with me, too. Welcome to the High House! [[As a result, the Commission has not yet received any comments from the interested parties.]] We from the BZÖ want the people to vote on the Euro Rescue Screen, which will now blow up to €19.5 billion. We want EU contributions to be included in Because we know that the Regional Fund will in the future flow significantly fewer contributions back to Austria. We also want a climate change policy, where we use the money here in Austria, and not for senseless punishments under the Kyoto Protocol or for senseless CO2 certificates, whose purpose is called into question. That means, in sum, saying: The It's not a stability package, it's a scrapping package. That's 98 laws, 98 balloons, where one third of the revenue will not take place, and still paired with a reform stand, reform stop in that country. This automatically prolonges the next savings package, and we from the BZÖ say: The Austrians paid enough! Stop it!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e13646	Mr Klubobmann, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, spoke. I would remind you of the Rules of Procedure. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e13671	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen in the House! Mr. Chief Government Council of Herbs has falsely claimed, under the protection of immunity, that I was a partner of a security company, which is proven to be false and incorrect, and for which the ÖVP Secretary-General Kaltenegger was already legally sentenced. Furthermore, Mr. Chief Government Council of Herbs has untruthfully claimed that Minister of Finance Grasser would have been part of the FPÖ at the time of the malversation suspicions that are being investigated by the Procuratorate. – This is proven to be incorrect! The malversation allegations that are being examined today by the Public Prosecutor's Office are available from the 2002 election. At the time, he was a minister of the ÖVP – only for the actual correction. Mr. Chief Government Council of Herbs, you have also falsely claimed that CARE Partners Health Finance GmbH, which has set itself the goal of making it possible for those Austrians who cannot afford to provide assistance in Austria to obtain good quality, is somehow related to a painting. – This is proven to be incorrect! Neither Deutsche Telekom nor Eurofighter nor other malversation operations have had anything to do with this privately owned company. That's why it's correct. I would like to point out that, under the protection of immunity, there is no doubt about this. Provely spreading such untruths against better knowledge, that has not lost anything here!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e13705	The next speaker was Mrs Oberhauser. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e13727	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! You can't say it often enough, that's why I say it again: It was not the Austrians who lived over their conditions and caused us to have a savings package now. [[call to the FPÖ.]] - You're right about me? Great! It was the irregular financial market we had, and that is what we are trying to regulate in principle. I am entirely with the Secretary of State, who said: If you give up the financial transaction tax now, you really give up yourself. I also accept Mr Scheibner's offer. I do not assume that Mr Chancellor will take him on journeys, but for lobbying, I think it would be quite good if the BZÖ would also contribute to a European financial transaction tax, that is, at European level. We accept this offer, I believe, thank you, for it would not only bring money into the state funds we need, but it would also ask those who are the cause of this crisis, namely, really unbridled financial speculators, to cash. If you know that some shares change owner 90 times in the second, you know that with 0.1 percent tax you would have brought money into the state funds and that you might have been able to save yourself some packages that we have to link here. – I invite everyone to support us. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] However, I would also like to address the issue of health reforms or part of health, which is included in this stability package. Both Mr Strache and Mr BZÖ's colleague are in favour of the major health reform, where we can really make the truth for the Austrians, namely: You can see that you put the health insurance companies – 22 and 19 respectively – on one, or on three. [[Abg. Strache: This is an example of many!]] So if there really is the big money to get, I dare doubt. If you look at what has happened under Stäger in recent years, what happened in small steps that make this system more efficient, then, I think, you can see it. I think we all agree that health care in Austria works very well. [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. Amon.]] It doesn't work perfectly, but it works very well and people are satisfied with it. Now, if you do the big throw and it blows, it's broken. What you can do – and that will happen – is to turn on small wheels. When you look at it: Before the summer or autumn, we decided how we can restructure hospitals, how we can give countries the opportunity to structure their hospitals in such a way that they offer patients the right offer. So that's an option they have. That means they can choose: I need an internal one, I need surgery, I might need an ambulance, and I need more day care. – This will save money and allow countries to make lower investments in hospitals. We see that we are now bringing together a common hospital law. [[Abg. Linder: You look!]] The ways are far, they are good, and that is in good ways. We now have negotiations with the federal states and social security schemes on the consolidation path, an agreement on a maximum increase of 3.6 per cent, which in principle focuses on GDP. [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: Far away!]] That is to say, reducing health costs, so that people do not feel it, simply by looking at it, that you do not build a hospital there and a hospital in every federal country on the border, only so that everyone in your federal state can be born. This example, I think, you all know. – That means, there are some things that really happened. Finally, I would like to say to Mr Strache and his Pippi Langstroff: That really moved me. Mr Spindelegger, too, took a very strong stand against the fact that she has brought the Minister of Finance into contact with Pippi Langstrumff. We're 20 days after the International Women's Day. Pippi Langstrumff was the first woman or the first girl, the strongest who ever had it, who had gone beyond all the borders, who lived a completely independent life and regulated her things. What, please, can you wish for more than a comparison with Pippi Long Stock?
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e13823	Next speaker: Mr Wöginger. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e13844	Mr President. Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! The debate clearly shows that there is no alternative to this savings package. We are putting Austria back on healthy legs, ladies and gentlemen, and we will have a balanced budget again in 2016. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hagen.]] We haven't reached that for a long time. This was certainly a policy that was not always all right. We will be able to balance the 2016 budget with this package again. This means that we are no longer spending more than we are taking, and that is the principle in budgetary policy. The EIA has entered into these six-point negotiations, and we see that three-quarters of the total package will be saved on the expenditure side, and that it will be saved and renovated in a sustainable manner: in pensions, in public health, in the health sector, in the promotions, in the administration and in the public service. But it is true, ladies and gentlemen, that this also ensures the economic location and the labour market in Austria, and this debate is too short for me today. We have had the lowest unemployment rate for months. You, Mr Strache, have announced that the East would flood us – 21,000 additional workers have come. [[Abg. Street: 30,000!]] We have said that between 20,000 and 25 000 will come. They said that Austria can't stand that. We still have the lowest unemployment rate. So much to your unknowings that you constantly convey to the people who are totally false. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Secondly, we are also well protected by economic policy. This will ensure this package. A word about pensions, because it is always said that it is not going into the structure. Of course, a structural reform is being carried out in the area of pensions, namely with the pension account. But it is also true, ladies and gentlemen, that privileges are abolished, which is long necessary: in the field of ÖBB with early retirement, in the area of the National Bank... – that was addressed. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bitch.]] You seem to be not reading the laws, Mr. Strache. This is the problem that you don't know what's inside! A pension contribution for National Bankpensionists will be introduced – it is contained in these laws. [[Abg. Strache: But the early pensioners continue at 52 years!]] - Screams You are not long, but at last read the laws, you are a Member of this House, and do not constantly insure the population! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We introduce changes in early pensions, namely in the area of corridor pension, we have a reform in the area of invalidity pension, and this ensures that we raise the actual age – and this is the point, ladies and gentlemen – by about four years by 2020. This ensures us sustainability in this area. We are committed to the next generations in the field of pensions, which is why we are implementing these structural measures. However, we also take offensive measures, for example in the area of thermal rehabilitation. The Uni-billion is intact in this area. The research area is also being expanded. The care fund, which is so important – for the care workers, for those concerned in the care and care and also for the communities – will be extended by two years, and the labour market will receive an additional €750 million from this area. Mein Ladies and gentlemen, 50 percent of the Court's proposals are implemented in the administrative sector. Why not 100 percent? We must answer this question. [[Abg. Strache: Which 50 percent will be implemented?! – Not even 3 percent!]] – Read the laws! Then you will see, for example, that army hospitals are put together, that administrative structures are put together. [[Abg. Street: Not even 3 percent! That's a joke!]] Do you know what we don't want, Mr. Klubobmann? We don't want district captains being locked up. In rural areas, we do not want to take away citizens' services, Mr Strache. You're going to go home with this, we're not from the Austrian People's Party! We want to continue to ensure citizens' administration and service in rural areas. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Strache: Do you really think people are so stupid?- Oh, my God!]] The closing of tax gaps is all right from our point of view, which is included in this package. – But finally, a sentence on the entire asset tax discussion: We are protecting ourselves from those people, ladies and gentlemen, who have done something through hard work, for example, building a house, acquired a property. We are protecting ourselves from property and from the domestic farmers in this country, so that nothing is taken away from them, which would be unfair and unfair, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Strache: We notice this in real estate taxation up to now!]] We do not want any expropriation in this area either! Mr Pilz! If you're talking about €12 billion – we don't want expropriation! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In conclusion: Populism is really to be seen! Mr Grosz, you are constantly harming individual regions with your statements. BMW is an employer in Steyr for 3,600 people, 3,600 employees, and guarantees a very high average income in this region. Hold Put the populism in the back! For the sake of our children and our coming generations, I can only encourage you to agree to this package. This is our task as a parliamentarian. It is absolutely necessary!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e13990	Next speaker: Mr Herbert. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e14012	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Wöinger! It's useless if you're still pouring our clubman so much. Your accusations don't come true, even if you repeat them so often. There is only one party behind the Austrian population, and that is the FPÖ and HC street, let yourself be said! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Riepl.]] I'd like to tell you something else. A professional group has not yet come up here, which is a real and sustainable loser – that is, the figures in this load package. It is a loser who, in addition to the general disadvantages to be borne as a citizen, also has to carry additional resort-related savings, because he is a member of the Republic's staff and perhaps also has to carry members of the Ministry of Interior or the Ministry of State Defense. It's the police, the law enforcement and the army. These three professional groups are sustainable losers of this load package, and I tell you: These cuts there not only have a lasting negative impact on the security of the population, because strip services can no longer be achieved to the necessary extent, because the German army can no longer guarantee the disaster service, but also these savings have nothing to do with your much-quoted social justice. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Instead of implementing these service and pay-related deteriorations for these professional groups, you should rather save where it makes sense where it also has an added value for everyone, i.e. in the case of... They follow up the money like Greece. You have... – Yes, exactly: [[Call the ÖVP:What?]] After what? They are rejecting speculation banks, and you have shot far above the target with overburdened subsidies and subsidies, because we are spending far more than the European average. I think all in all, the picture is that this is not about creating social balance, because it is particularly true in this field of public service officials with small and medium-sized incomes. While other issues of the savings package are still in the stars – I am thinking of the financial transaction tax, I am thinking of the agreement with Switzerland, the points to be addressed in the health reform, which are still far, far away, – these savings in the public service are going to be decisive. I believe that this is primarily a matter of the rapid down payment, of the fast money from these government officials who are not yet able to defend themselves, because you are their direct employer, and that is all the more objectionable. I therefore say: We will not agree to this load package. Here is also a critical word to be said to the Public Service Union, which officials have not failed to do in these areas: We will also call for a nominal vote in these areas of the savings package levels concerned by the public service, because it is understandable whether these Members here in the House, who are still members of the union, actually want to contribute to acting against the interests of the staff, whether they are really more interested in the parties than the trade union orders they have to fulfil here for the benefit of the staff. We therefore say no to this package of savings, no savings from police, judicial and federal forces, no compromises on security and disaster protection! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e14063	Mrs Zinggl. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. He will speak instead of Mr Ollinger. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e14085	Values Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! I am now only one million €, which is supposed to be saved here, but which, in my opinion, is very characteristic of the unnecessary reduction in public services and of saving in the most imaginable place: It is about reducing funds for the public prosecutor's office. We know that the public prosecutor's task is to control the public administration, to examine and to eliminate abuses, or to cause them to do so as well as they can. We also know that this administration has been attacked by the public for years and that proposals can be made practically daily in the media as to how they could be improved. We also know that the annual report of the Public Prosecutor's Office is very important to all of us and confirms the need for this institution, the importance of the parliamentary audit bodies for the rule of law and for democracy. Now, however, instead of reforms in this area, control will be reduced or their task will no longer be ensured. The greatest uncertainty in this whole story is that in November we jointly passed the OPCAT Enforcement Act. This law, if I may remind you, is a question of whether the People's Procuratorate should examine whether human rights are respected in places of withdrawal, such as in prisons, nursing homes, psychiatric institutions and so on. This is very important for all of us. We decided in November. At the same time, we have decided on an adequate budget for the public prosecutor's office, and this budget will now be reduced even before the public prosecutor's work in relation to OPCAT has begun! This can only mean that this work cannot be done; and I believe that we all do well to concentrate here. We have also tried to make another change in the Committee on Budgets, but it has not moved. We're very sorry. We are therefore now tabling the following amendment: [[Quoted print version removed]] I believe that Parliament must not have its own audit bodies removed from the government, and I would ask for support for this request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e14151	The amendment just tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e14257	Next speaker: Mr Hagen. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e14279	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! I would really like to correct Mr Wöginger. He has here fully claimed that there would be no alternative to this savings package. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make a suggestion: To save 21 social insurance institutions, so that we only have one. You'd have saved that effectively. There are alternatives, very good. In the Committee on Budgets, I was surprised that I did not get any answers to my questions, at least not sufficient answers. Meanwhile, I know why. They had no answers. That was the problem. It's turned out now. Mr Herbert addressed the round of officials' zero-earners. The media was told by the government that this savings package is socially balanced. I'm telling you, it's not socially balanced, on the contrary, it's going over with the shaving blade. I will show you an example of how this is done. Small contract staff with 900 or 1000 euros of income are also punished with a zero wage round. At the same time, the great head of section in the ministry, who earns more than one member of the national council, comes from it with the same line. Here you could have taken it if it had been serious to you. You would have been able to act socially well-balanced by taxing the higher officials more heavily and leaving the little ones alone, ladies and gentlemen. Maybe you can see what a mogel pack it is. They put the Austrians to Easter lazy eggs in the nest – and they smell as far as Vorarlberg. I also give you an example with the executive. On the one hand, it is burdened several times with a zero wage round, on the other hand 150 million are saved annually in the section – at the expense of safety, I say quite clearly. But I believe that saving at the expense of security is the wrong saving, ladies and gentlemen. Perhaps the Minister of the Interior will explain something to me afterwards, because the executive is not even money for the most necessary. I'll give you another example: In the state police command Vorarlberg in the Landesfunkleitzentrum, where the officials perform 24 hours of service, there are only normal office chairs that have a bad effect on the cross and on the tape discs. Officers get sick. Hiefor this you have no money, as we heard before, for luxury bodies with massage seats in the find for the ministers, there you have the money. I'm telling you, that's the wrong thing to do. I know where it's whiffing in your place, Mrs. Minister. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Leave Now you're coming back to traffic as a traffic speaker! Road projects, which are forward-looking, will be saved, here will be reduced, at the expense of the car drivers, which on the other hand you will again reduce with the increased mineral oil tax, with the VAT with which the car tax and many, many other taxes. A small example that has just come into my hands in the last few days, so that the drivers will know how they are: Ten years ago, a litre of diesel cost around 8 Schilling, today we are at the diesel at the semi-favourable gas stations at 1.50 €. 1,50 € are converted 20,65 Schilling. As, ladies and gentlemen, the government is highly categorising, and that is why Mrs Financiers may also be able to say full well that the 2011 budget is better than she thought. Yes, you have made it at the expense of the drivers, at the expense of taxpayers, at the expense of the Austrians, the small citizens. There's no need to brag that you're funding a budget like that. Ladies and gentlemen, we have already paid enough!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e14346	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Gaßner. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e14367	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen of the government! I would also like to take a very brief look at my colleagues, Mr Wöginger, who broke a lance for the District Headships and meant that he was not allowed to kill or abolish this civil service station. Mr Wöginger, you're yourself – he's not here right now – a member of a council, even vice-president, if I'm not mistaken. The communities are the first point of contact for citizens and the real citizens' service, and should be supported and supported in their efforts. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, there is still a lot to be said about, but I must or may have an amendment tabled by Mr Kai Jan Krainerund Jakob concerning the government template of a 1. Introduce the 2012 Stability Act, according to which the National Council wants to decide in second reading the following – details are available to everyone because the amendment proposal is yes, I can only briefly explain it –: The first amendment concerns the Journalistiksförderungsgesetz. As a result, it should be possible to use 5 percent of the annual funding for the maintenance and renewal of immovable assets. Then it is about changes to the Income Tax Act. A non-significant issue is the freedom of taxation of agricultural farming and remediation procedures. [[Abg. Oillinger: The request is not there!]] Please? [[Abg. Oillinger: The application is not yet distributed!]] I was told he's distributed. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenecker: He's just going to be distributed!]] He's in distribution? All right, I'm allowed to continue. There should be tax freedom in the case of merger and hall cleaning procedures and in the field of the creation of land regulations in the case of construction land – called the construction land-construction process. The research premium will also be made dependent on an opinion on the quality of research. In this context, the Federal Tax Code is also amended to include the billing and administration of the research premium. A major change is the amendment to the Pensions Cash Act mentioned by the Minister of Finance, which should now make it possible for a greater number of persons to benefit from this 20 percent tax, because the limit for pensions should be increased from € 145 to € 300 per month or € 4 200 per year. The most important thing I would like to mention is the change in the VAT law. So far, communities in particular, but also others, have been able to outsource their projects, in which they did not have the right to deduct tax, into companies in order to be able to benefit from the pre-tax. This will be abolished by this law and would now be 1st. ==References== A five-month transitional period has been set up here so that communities that already have a project in the pipeline, as it is so well called, can still carry out this project. What I have to say is: Too bad it won't be possible afterwards! If a community builds a canal, builds treatment facilities, waste disposal and water supply, then it is subject to pre-tax protection everywhere when it reorganises schools, builds kindergartens, maintains children's facilities, so it does not invest here. I know this is a question of the administration of sovereignty versus business, but one should consider a change in order to make it easier for the communities to invest. This would be important, even for the small economy, for small and medium-sized enterprises in our regions, since the communities are facing a very difficult financial future. And I would also like to point out a point that is also contained in this Stability Act, namely, that with 1. In January 2014, the determination of the new unit values in the agricultural sector will be established. It's finally ready! This has been asleep for decades, and I think that a small but increase in the basic tax will be very, very beneficial to the communities.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e14449	The amendment just tabled was explained in its key points. According to § 53 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure also in the sense of being distributed to Members. The application is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e14637	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Aubauer. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e14658	Mr President. Estimated government members! Ladies and gentlemen! With all your criticism of this reform package, we do not lose sight of why we need to save. It's not from Jux and Tollery. Our goal is: The debt mountain in Austria must not continue to grow. What does it look like right now? – jobs It's 500 euros ahead of you! The debt mountain in Austria is piled up in 500 euros per year by the height of the Ötscher, which is at least nearly 1,900 meters high. So: That is why we need this reform package. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Our seniors show a lot of sense of responsibility – as has been the case so often in the past. They are willing to make their savings, as are all the other groups in the State. And it is important to say thank you too. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It is important to us that we also want our children and grandchildren to have pensions from which they can live. However, this requires a financial system. In other words, there will have to be fewer early pensions in the future. That is the stated objective, and therefore the measures that have been taken. Another important point: Many workers want this complicated system to be simpler and more transparent. This will be done by the pension account for all. Then everyone knows, he should go to retirement sooner or later, how high the pension is at the respective time. So it's a very good thing. A wonderful point in Austria is the high number of invalidity pensions. Here too, there will be new rules very soon. This is urgently necessary. Ladies and gentlemen! If all Austrians are to work longer, they also need the appropriate jobs. This is the change and change of all reforms. There will be a large labour market offensive for this purpose. By 2016, € 750 million will be taken into control. That's a big thing, that's an important concern for us. Of course, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, you can talk about all the reforms, but it is certain that: Reforms in pensions are essential. Or do you want people with 57, 58 to go to early retirement? We don't want that. We want to create accompanying measures, and the whole package will ultimately benefit all generations – the young and the old. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e14719	Next speaker: Mr Linder. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e14740	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! My dear! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Aubauer, no, we do not want people with 52, 53, 54 to retire, but if you raise the retirement age, you should also take accompanying measures that it will be interesting for businesses to keep older workers, to take up, but not to raise unemployment insurance contributions in return until the retirement age. That's the wrong way. [[Complaints with FPÖ and BZÖ.]] In my view, the load package decided today is a load package full of speculations, hopes and, above all, veils, but also a package without reforms. If today the vice chancellor has said that we have learned from the past, we are not allowed to make any more debts, we will see from the next examples that he does not take himself seriously. It was spoken of as an overtime account that applies to police and federal forces. That means people can now save overtime to retire earlier. 260 million € savings potential. But what does that mean? – Simple: Now the services are provided, and the next generation must pay these benefits. For the next ten years, these costs will be paid to us. Mr. Vice-Chancellor, I thought you were of the opinion that we were not making new debts. These are de facto debts and advances on payments of the future. It was also funny that Mrs Heinisch-Hosek, the Minister for Civil Liberties, told us, actually has no idea of it, she has only superficially with Mrs In- President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). But 260 million € are in the load package inside. Next point: the financing of Österreichische Volksbanken AG. Yes, about a pension tax fee. One wants to bring in €900 million, €900 million, which would mean €75 million less tax revenue per year in the coming years. Mr Vice-Chancellor, what is this other than an advance on tax revenue that we are now using and will no longer get in over the next few years? I think again: You do not take yourself seriously and not what you have told us this morning. Further: It should also be thought that farmers' social security contributions should increase from 15.5 percent to 17 percent, because social insurances no longer benefit from the money. These are exactly the same social insurance schemes for farmers who give outside consultations for small and small businesses, so that they are to share farms so far as to reach a single value of €1500 so that they are free from social security contributions. In the same breath, however, the recommendation is issued to make business communities and management contracts so that they can get the full benefit of the funding. That's not how it's going: On the one hand, to advise on how they themselves get less revenue, and on the other hand, those who honestly think that they are still getting into the bag about increases in contributions. Here there would be a need for reforms. The latter and for me the most funny thing, if it were not so sad, was that the Minister for the Environment writes in the strategy report, how important it is that we maintain our high quality of water supply, our high quality of water disposal, and that this should also be promoted for the future. In the same breath, we receive a letter from communities to the house that the promotion of the urban water economy is zero from € 125 million in 2011 to 2014. Ladies and gentlemen, there is zero! If we want to maintain this quality – and we need to maintain it, because repairs, conservation measures are necessary – then this will only be at the expense of the fees, the citizens and the final consumers. I think all these examples show how this load package is set up: to hide, hide, hide and try to bring the citizen around on the nose. I think the package has earned only one name: a burden package for the citizen who is still working and who is still doing its job.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e14804	The next speaker was Mr Oellinger. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e14826	Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Chancellor! It's a shame that Mr Berlakovich is just outside. I would have liked to address the question directly to him, but perhaps you would pass it on to him and ask him why his face still shines down from certain ads, to the public, although we have here passed a law that makes the ads “head-free” when it comes to advertisements from members of the Federal Government. This is a climate fund listing, and the climate fund is 100% owned by the federal government. It's illegal, ladies and gentlemen. But, of course, the Minister for the Environment does not scratch at all what is legal and illegal. That is why I very much ask you to carry out this advertisement or ad abuse. He's supposed to pay for this from his own pocket if he gets his photo somewhere, but not at the expense of the taxpayers. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: Yes! Abuse!]] Now I come to the real topic: If you listen, my dear ones Ladies and gentlemen, one gets the impression that this load package has been the biggest benefit of the Federal Government for years. [[Abg. Mayerhofer: That's right! That's right!]] So this load package makes everything better. There's nothing worse, everything gets better. - Excuse me, excuse me! Only from the savings amounts, from what you have done – whether it is realized or not – can it be deduced that, no matter what effects you connect with it, it cannot be so. And now I come to the real point: It's certainly not the worst load package. It is also certain that individual measures are included in this load package, of which one could say: Yes, you could think about it, it's going in the right direction!, but one thing I'm telling you – and that's what we've put in this amendment here: Of sustainability and sustainable effect, this load package is certainly not a trace! I bring you – the Federal Minister is here, and he can only confirm this – an example: Age part-time in the ministerial draft. It is a matter for you and us to increase the actual retirement age without raising the legal one. Age: The original ministerial draft has provided for the age part-time to be linked to the statutory retirement age. How was that changed? – The age part-time is now linked to early retirement and is thus what it was before: an exit model for the large companies we know, especially in the area of financial service providers – banks, insurances et cetera, so that I translate it to you – which their people already send out at 52, 53 years of age and thus already ensure the slow transition to early retirement. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schopf]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wöger.]] This is the problem we still have with your kind of policy. And we know why it has been changed: not because of the voest, even if the colleagues there are now intervening in the back, but in general because of the economy that has ordered a model for early retirement. They say they want to keep sending people out early, and they're supposed to pay that to the Federal Government on unemployment insurance. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Wöger.]] And if that costs early retirement, then they are, namely the economy, the first, who scream and say that the whole thing costs so much. That's how it looks, ladies and gentlemen. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Kogler.]] So it looks like the measures that are supposed to be sustainable. Second point. On the alleged sustainable measures, I ask you: What happened in the Superpensions area? What happened? – Nothing for the political pensions, but nothing at all! No additional percentage, no additional percentage or more per cent of those who can benefit from a pension contribution of three pensions – there are; [[Abg. Wookers: They pay 13.6 percent!]] Sorry, two are at least – nothing happens. [[Abg. Binder-Maier: Mr Colleague, there are no more political pensions! Since 1997!]] And with the National Bank-pensions, where the matter is at least as bad as with the political pensions, because the National Bank pays a total of 100 million for their pensions per year – 100 million €! – with the National Bank-pensions increased by 1.3 percent. [[Abg. Wöger: 3,3!]] From 2 to 3.3 percent. Previously the 2 percent were voluntary, now the 3.3 are involuntary, say legal. [[Abg. Wöginger: Legal!]] 1.3 per cent, therefore, the increase, under the line. [[Abg. Wöginger: Voluntarily!]] No, ladies and gentlemen, if we are talking about the victims contained in this package of savings or burdens, we must say that there are clear victims. This concerns the small and medium-sized pensioners – you can see that in our amendment. [[Abg. Wöger: Why? You don't know how the sum is distributed yet!]] Even what you have decided now will not last. And you see the comparison with the National Bankpensionists. I do not want to highlight this group in particular, but there are no links in terms of social justice or in terms of sustainability as a whole in this savings and burden package. The lifting rates are reduced one year, the other year they will be raised. I'm not going to explain in detail what the lifting sets are. The out-of-tour increase in the maximum contribution base, you know exactly, is now bringing money in the short term and it costs at least two or three years in the area of pension insurance. [[Abg. Wöger: Yes what now?]] “Yes what now?” asks Col. Wöginger. – In the short term, it brings money, and we have to pay for it in the long term. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Wöger.]] That's how this savings and load package looks, I'm sorry. Apart from the fact that there has been no time to really discuss this thoroughly, this concerns in particular the first-class credit, one thing that is useful in itself, but as you now nod it over the table, it cannot be said who the losers, who are the winners or what is achieved by this measure at all. [[Abg. Woogers: Go, please!]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e15046	The next speaker was Mr Dolinschek. 4 minutes are set. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e15083	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Values Members of the Federal Government! This savings package, which was originally supposed to be a debt brake, is now marked by tax increases and price increases that will immediately enter into force, namely with 1. April. However, the reform steps are being pushed to the long-term bank, although for years it has been known what to do. There are enough proposals: State reform, administrative reform, tax reform. The pension system is partly addressed here. also a large chunks in this savings package. The labour market and the pension sector are one of the biggest parts of this budget consolidation. My previous speaker, Oellinger, referred to the age part-time. To do this, I have to say: I am not entirely of his opinion because I consider the age part-time to be useful so that working time can be reduced in old age if you can no longer achieve full performance. It is also true that the part relating to block schemes will be revised, so that this is also possible in the future. For those who have to travel far or who are active in shift work, this is an advantage, that is not a question. However, there are other points that have not been addressed or have not been resolved happily, such as the halving of the building savings premium – which has already been addressed a few times today – or the halving of the premium in the provision of the future. These are interventions in existing contracts. While it is everywhere in the contracts that the state premium can be changed at any time and so on, one does not intervene in pension privileges. Increase the pension security contribution from micky 2 to 3 percent – this is a percentage point! – but where people have high pensions and privileges, they remain or are practically continued, as well as with the Austrian Bundesbahnen as with the National Bank, also with civil servants’ pensions and so on. As far as the so-called hackler regulation, the long-term insurance scheme is concerned, I have already mentioned the differences here twice from the speaker's desk, and I will not tire to point out: An official may retire with 42 years of contributions from the hacker scheme, and any other person insured after the ASVG only after 45 years of contributions. Mr Federal Minister, you have often said that you cannot become an official just 18 years ago. You're right. But let's take the following: Of two people who have the same schooling, in my opinion the same study, one goes to the public service and the other to the private sector. One person becomes an official and the other is insured after the ASVG. And now it comes: But the official can then have this advantage after 42 years and the other person only after 45 years. – That’s incomprehensible! That's unfair! I can't do that! That's not okay, and you have to see that – that's what the population sees! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] On labour market policy, I must say: There is now a rehabilitation allowance paid by the AMS for the under-50s instead of the invalidity pension. These persons are not pensioners in the future, and they are excluded from the statistics. This increases the actual retirement age by about one year. Somehow, however, these people need to be cared for is not a question. So this is nothing but that the person is paid out of another pot. It may also save a bit because the amount of minimum insurance is perhaps lower than the amount that can now be paid as an invalidity pension. But this is nothing but a beautiful one of the pension statistics and nothing else. The transparency database is also overdue. We have a support jungle in Austria, where dual, triple funding is granted, and it is precisely there that the lever should be set up, so that certain funding that does not have an impact on the labour market and on jobs is avoided. On it. Of course, attention should be paid to this, but the aid jungle would have to be corrected as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e15161	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Rudas. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e15182	Mr President. Mr. Chancellor! Dear Members of the Federal Government! Dear guests at the audience gallery! Unfortunately, a scene went down a little bit, I want to do it briefly before I come to the savings package. Colleague Strache has come out and has excited himself like a injured deer that colleague Herbs has reminded him that he is with his friends Rumpold, Meischberger, Grasser and Co. responsible for the historical moral decay in this country. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Neubauer]] And like a injured deer, he said, Just trust it because you have the immunity! – Just the one who constantly comes out with his husbands and says the untruth is attacking outside with falsehoods and with witches of innocent groups of people, is there a source of immunity? – That can only be a joke! [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Neubauer: The hope for the future speaks!]] I advise Mr Strache not only to be a little less sensitive, but above all to be present, because the audience can also take a picture of what Mr Strache is doing for his salary. [[Abg. Neubauer: Because you're just 5 minutes inside!]] [[Abg. Linder: If you're never there, you can't know how many times he's there!]] Now I'm coming to the stability package. . Ladies and gentlemen, my colleague, Mr Oberhauser, has already said so, but we cannot repeat it often enough: The budget crisis is a consequence of the financial crisis. It was the financial problems encountered by speculation on the real economy. It was not the students, the pensioners who lived over their conditions. [[New call for tender of the Abg. New builder.]] State rescue operations through business packages and bank packages have led to these debts. And this is particularly important for history and cause research. Now, like all other European countries, we have to reduce debt. This package of stability, which we are deciding on today, is a very balanced and meaningful package. This package will enable us to get out of the EU deficit procedure over the next few years. And it must be our goal that Austria is independent, as far as possible, from financial markets and speculation. Now to the various measures. . Especially the SPÖ, the Social Democracy has kept that word. We, the Social Democracy, have said that it must be a balanced mix of revenue-based measures, capital-related, fair taxes, and a meaningful saving by improving efficiency. [[Abg. Neubauer: Who wrote this speech?]] And especially in the revenue-side measures, we have succeeded in reaching a solidarity levy for top earners and a real estate tax in addition to the bank levy and the change in Stiftung privileges. And there we are – we are one with the Greens – not yet in the goal, but we are on the right path. When we look at the other countries of Europe, we can proudly say that in Austria we will have more power-related taxes instead of a higher burden by mass taxes. This would never have been possible under a free government participation. In the U-committee, more and more evidence is coming of why this may be so. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Jury.]] It would have been impossible with the FPÖ because especially the FPÖ in property taxes, with taxes for top earners always shouts no. Why it is, we will surely find out in the U Committee why the FPÖ is playing as a protector of the rich. Social democracy has said from the outset that there must be no zero wage rounds for pensioners and no mass tax increases. And while mass taxes are increased throughout Europe, which are sold to family silver, are ordered to reduce wages and pensions, the Austrian Federal Government is still investing offensively in education, labour market, university and care. [[Abg. New builder: That's why they're all pleading, the unis!]] There is a price compensation for small pensions, no zero wage rounds and no mass tax increases. Therefore, my appeal to the opposition – it is also, especially when guests are in the house, a bit about political communication – is: I think it would be appropriate to make a fair assessment of the work of the Federal Government here. And this is: despite the economic crisis, employment is rising, Europe's lowest unemployment and the development of the social network. This can be seen, and that is why we all envy Europe. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e15299	Next speaker: Mr Donabauer. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e15321	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! For one thing, the term “sparpaket” is too simple for me. I think those who have dealt with this issue can undoubtedly claim that it is a Stability Pact with enormous reform measures that we need because of the change in society and the economy. We must do this because the situation in Austria, but also in many other countries in Europe, has changed considerably. I believe that we are forced to act if we want to make responsible policies. Secondly, The limits of the burden of public budgets have been reached, both in the Federal Government, in the countries and in the municipalities. Debt allocations have little meaning, solution proposals are needed. The discussion so far has been made that the opposition parties – that is their job, I understand – criticize everything. [[Abg. Neubauer: Right!]] But I have hardly heard – except for a few exceptions – solutions from them. [[Abg. New builder: Because you're never inside!]] We invite you to: Bring in your imagination and your ideas, you also have responsibility for this country in which you are also elected and where you also fulfil a parliamentary task! [[Inter-calls at the BZÖ]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I believe that the government has spent months trying to draw up proposals for stabilisation. This, of course, leads to conflicts, which is not a question, but our task is not to continue to maintain this conflict, but to clarify, discuss and point out proposals for solutions. In which I give some right, it is that we must slowly say goodbye to this so-called eternal phrase of well-acquired rights. Reform measures are necessary in all areas, that is to be seen throughout the Republic. It is important that we keep work, that people have work, that businesses develop, that agriculture – that is my area – has its future, otherwise all we are planning here is not realistic in reality. And that, I think, has succeeded to a great extent. Because the Minister for Infrastructure is sitting here and also the Chancellor of the Federal Republic, who has also led this place, is with us what I very much praise, allow me as a citizen a comment: We save on infrastructure projects, yes, that's what you have to think about, that's right, but I would ask you to look at the noise protection walls in Austria. If you drive from Vienna to Salzburg, you have more noise protection walls than you can find in the rest of Europe. And on the second hand, I know that this is not federal competence, that the noise protection walls are being built where new buildings were made shortly before. Ladies and gentlemen, that's not how it is! I believe that we need, as a whole, a principle discussion and a reorientation. There is no one hurt, there we are all invited to show such things, because I don't deserve – and neither you – to take my beautiful cultural landscape from me, my view of the home, our country, and only because others have recently settled close to the traffic axes and say: Now the Republic has to occur and I have to build noise protection walls! – I’m very critical of this! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Given the time available to me, I would just like to refer to a few issues. – Mr Linder, you have meant that social security schemes as a whole and those of farmers are something special. I can now say: Read this law! You will also find a section where in the future there will also be the presentation of multiple social security applications, because we want farmers and contributors and compensation payers to be more or less identical. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Right!]] That was a concern for us, which was not easy to enforce. That's what we asked. Secondly, Of course, we have also adjusted the contribution rates. [[Abg. Huber: Raised!]] Ladies and gentlemen, that was no joy, there were hard conversations necessary. [[call to the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: But it's not fair!]] Thank you to Minister Hundstorfer! Look, please, at our insurance structure! Today we have 180 000 pensioners and about 150,000 contributors. It's getting even harder from time to time. We have made our contribution to this – no question! – and we will also discuss the other developments. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Summary of social security funds!]] I am also glad that, in the end, it has been possible to achieve, even for our profession, a reduction in the rate of hardship that everyone else already has. I think social justice must also apply to all groups. We've achieved this. I am grateful and hope that this measure, this Stability Pact, will help to ensure that Austria can develop well in the future, that work and economy are secure and that our country can face a happy future.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e15452	The next item is the speech by Mr Jannach. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please. [[Ruf – in the direction of the Abg. Donabauer –: Blocking them]] Mr Donabauer, you must now clear the floor!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e15480	Mr Donabauer is still negotiating directly for the farmers. – So, Mr Donabauer, as the head of the social security scheme for farmers, to talk about reform measures and to make the only measure a contribution increase that costs farmers €60 million, that is really a scandal! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] I don't know how you take the courage to sell it as a reform package. It's a load package! It is not only about social security and the increase in pension contributions, which are, for me and for myself, an excessive burden, because you know exactly how high the pensions of farmers are on average. These are at €750, while the public pensions make up €200 per month. There's no equal right! And in addition to burdening the farmers is a scandal! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wöger.]] By the way, because I am also the agricultural speaker, with regard to agriculture: There is an opinion from the Chambers of Agriculture of Austria, which is not a liberal organization with God, nor a SPÖ organization, and it breaks the savings package to be decided by you today. [[Abg. Wögerer: Thank God!]] It strongly criticises the removal of agricultural diesel, the cost of €50 million for farmers, the distortion of competition, because in other EU countries there is this measure very well. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: That's why no representative speaks!]] Furthermore, massively criticises the redeployment levy, the property tax – massive criticism of the Chamber of Agriculture – then the increase in the lifting rates from 400 to 600, which increases the contributions for the chambers, the planned increase in the basic tax which the Federal Minister Mitterlehner has already stated openly, the re-evaluation of the unit values. All of this is represented by the Chamber of Agriculture, by you yourselves. Dear colleague Eßl – the colleague Schultes as president of the Lower Austrian Chamber is not here – you are President of the Salzburg Chamber of Agriculture. In your name, this criticism is being made, and today, just like the colleague Schultes and all the other farmers' federal deputies, you will lift up your hand in good form, as in the driving licence law. You are allowed to criticize outside the country, and here in Vienna you will decide the burden on the farmers. – We will certainly not agree to that! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Pendl.]] The FPÖ also does not agree for a fundamental reason: We asked the Minister of Agriculture where he would save in his area. We asked him if he would save more than €300 000 a year in the grants to the Farmers' Federation from the Ministry to the Farmers' Federation. Will he save at the eco-social forum – €600 000 last year, an organisation that has not yet brought anything to farmers? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber.]] Will it save on the platform “Forum Land”, ÖVP organization, which spent €150 000 last year for a harvest thanks in Vienna? – No euro will be saved, but the burden on farmers will now be decided, and we can never accept that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e15593	The next item is Mr Pirklhuber. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e15616	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Today, the “social balance” – under quotation marks – has been stressed several times. Mr Jannach has shown very well how the agricultural sector organizes social balance, namely money for the peasantry at all levels, political power for the peasantry at all levels, and the small farmers must pay it and say thank you for it. That's how reality looks in this country. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wöger.]] But I would also like to focus briefly on the fundamental shortcomings of this package, once again on financial transaction tax. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a right measure, just as you put it, even in your proposals, is from my point of view so, as I should say, blue-eyeed in that case. I read to you literally how you yourself present this here, and you write it in the 1st. Stability law on page 4: “The Federal Government plans to introduce a financial transaction tax from 2014 onwards and to conclude an agreement with Switzerland on a remuneration tax from 2013. Financial transaction tax is expected to amount to EUR 500 million annually from 2014 onwards, EUR 1 billion in 2013 and EUR 50 million annually from 2014 onwards.” When you read through it, you have the impression: Aha, so much money is on the street, the Federal Government will introduce the financial transaction tax, and 500 million are there. Not a word, not even a little bit of a thought that Europe's policy is involved, that we must negotiate at European level, that political instruments are necessary, which we must first create together – not a word of it. Such a thing is written in, that's your paper. How can we take this seriously, ladies and gentlemen, when things are presented here that are simply wrong in this form? They're wrong because they can't be implemented this way – that's the front. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] Then a point on the service cars and on the priorities: Mr Donabauer said we should make proposals. We have tabled a specific request on this point today: 8 million € for service cars – no! There is a request for this, and Mr Donabuer can vote with us today and put this nonsensus to the vote. That's next. Furthermore, Mr Oellinger has repeatedly debated the fact that the combination of social security funds would be a right and soft measure, which reduces long-term costs, creates uniform standards, and thus also harmonises the volume of benefits for all citizens. [[Intervocations with SPÖ and Greens.]] Yes, these are proposals for reforms, which would be a reform package. If you say we have no proposals, I have to tell you: It's not like that! Where does your proposal remain when it comes to intervention in peak pensions, over €10,000? This would be to the address of the ÖVP Farmers' Federation. If you are massively burdening the small farmers, but leave the top officials, pensioners over €10,000, this also shows how the discussion culture is currently running in your organisation: The ones up there are protected, they are dragged down there. That's how it looks! Another word on the really deep cuts in agriculture. So we have abolished the agricultural diesel, we have increased social security contributions, we have increased the basic tax, we have amended the assessment law. My question in the Committee on Agriculture to the Minister for Agriculture was how he intends to dispel these interventions, which concern all farmers and which, of course, will also cause massive social pressure in small farms. No answer, ladies and gentlemen. The agricultural reform 2014 to 2020 is the opportunity to make the agricultural policy fairer and thus also to restore compensation to farmers who are so burdened. No word from the ÖVP in this direction. Now on the environment: We have a minister who advertises Green Jobs at the top – the colleague Ollinger has already mentioned it today – with counterfee and everything but a policy that is exactly the opposite in practice. He is responsible for the purchase of emission certificates of an additional 35 million tonnes of CO2 equivalent – additional cost of € 80 million. The Federal Environment Agency (Federal Environment Agency), a top environmental policy institute in Austria, is being saved, that is to say, considerably apart. There will be €400 000 saved. The Farmers' Association has already been mentioned, only the party newspapers of the ÖVP, the weekly newspapers, received €250 000 in 2011, namely the Raiffeisen newspaper, the Farmers' Newspaper of the ÖVP and “Our Land” from Styria, also a Farmers' Bundeszeitung, to third – three party newspapers of the ÖVP €250 000. [[call to the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Huber: Incredible!]] Where does Mr Auer's proposal to save €250 000? [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Who reads all of this?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Eßl.]] Ladies and gentlemen, incredible how imaginative you are and at the same time how power-oriented and powerful, you have to say that. Your institutions will be financed; the people concerned will thank you. Finally, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] The aim is to reduce the reductions in the Federal Environment Agency. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e15721	The amendment just tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e15791	Next speaker: Mr Huber. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e15812	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Government members! Ladies and gentlemen. The stated objective should have been to set real reforms, to create growth, to create purchasing power and to see that the budget is going to be okay. But exactly the opposite has happened, it is only thrown out, scraped and scraped. You've heard many times today how good the economy works and how great everything is going. The fact is: In Tyrol healthy companies are in great regret that it is impossible to get any more funding. Our banks seem to have lost all the money. Now, the Tyrolean companies demand that you finally go here and create a regional mortgage bank that doesn't sound like the mortgage Tyrol from the last hole and can pay nothing more, but is a bank that really promotes the interests of consumers and the economy. [[Abg. Obernoster: Carinthia too!]] [[BZÖ's condolences.]] But no, you did not make any reforms at all, and our Mr. Spindelegger has said very much today that wealth is not affected and is not attacked. In the same breath I would like to quote today the Tyrolean President of the Community Association, Ernst Schöpf, who, in an interview, literally asks: “Our idea is that those who put drinks into circulation, i.e. the entire trade, the hotel industry and the gastronomy, will immediately announce their annual turnover of beverages as a basis for calculation in the financial compensation period. The negotiations with the Ministry of Finance are going well. And the same Mr Schöpf, who has now agreed that 22 000 people, farmers, farmers, farmers and farmers have been expropriated in Tyrol, demands the same Mr Schöpf to immediately increase the unit values from 500 percent, which has been increased to 35 percent over the last 30 years. He says that this is justified only by the construction aid. You know what you're doing? There comes the greatest price the Republic has ever seen. Already today, all the municipalities in the public buildings say that through this real estate income tax all buildings are massively expensive, so also the rents. The Tyroleans, who cannot afford these rents today, are once again heavily burdened, and the construction industry gets a big nod. If this is the EIA policy, I must say: sad. But now a few words about agriculture: The abolition of the reimbursement of agricultural diesel is more than questionable in relation to the EU competition, but proves what the EIA can do. Today it's like this: Today, the German farmer receives 21 cents refund per litre of diesel he buys. The Italian farmer, the South Tyrol farmer pays zero mineral oil tax, zero VAT and today pays 64 cents for the diesel. At my request to the Federal Ministers, what she intends to do when complaints come – because that is distorting competition – she says: Nothing can happen because the entire representation of interest has agreed. Yes, sad, but the farmers, farmers and farmers, who finally want a policy that stands out from them and which they do not lie to every day, betray and sell. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] One thing has to be said: If we do not get together today that we are reforming the AMA, this bloated official apparatus, which is nowhere else in Europe, only with us, immediately, then it is really sad, because farmers are tired of being treated like slaves of the AMA. The next thing is E10, there's going to be stupidity that's just politically irresponsible. The fuel E10 is then mixed so that Raiffeisen can earn money. In order for Raiffeisen to earn a lot, it is purchased that the food grain instead of coming to the plate is carved over thousands of kilometers and burned there. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] These are all wrong approaches. I hope that this federal government will finally be reasonable and will finally make a policy for the population, not just for the protection of their property and for the protection of their own income.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e15868	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Steßl-Mühlbacher. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e15889	Mr President. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen here in the House! Today, all the contributions to the debate have raised the issue of financial transaction tax. In particular, the situation we are in Austria and Europe has also been considered. In principle, I would like to point out that Europe and Austria have gone through one of the major economic crises, that the Federal Government has decided to take economic measures, to link work packages and to counteract them with measures such as short-term work. On the other hand, this has, of course, also resulted in a higher debt mountain. This is a vicious circle that we and all the other states in Europe must try to break through. One of these funds would be a financial transaction tax. Now, of course, it's interesting: On Thursday last week I was in Brussels for the Parliamentary Assembly on the Multiannual Financial Framework Plan, and the interest, especially the BZÖ, was not very great, as no single BZÖ parliamentarian participated in this meeting, which was about the financial transaction tax, which discussed what measures could be taken and where the opinions of other European parliamentarians could also be heard. It is important that we strive to enforce this financial transaction tax, especially because the market needs to be regulated. It is also necessary to make a contribution to those who have caused these high debts, and these were neither the employees in Austria nor in Europe. On the subject of justice, we have not heard much today, and I would like to address this briefly, in particular two measures. One measure is the absence of the so-called court days, a measure as I have already heard from many judges who have made a very positive attitude in the court, since most people, if they wanted something from the court, have come to the courts themselves. The second is the increase in the thresholds of dispute. I welcome the comparison or the agreement that was reached with the stand, that we should not lift the dispute borders immediately, but gradually until 2016. Because we are especially at the district courts – and also in the newspapers and in the press the closures of district courts, especially in Styria, are the subject – I would just like to present once again here in the Hohe Haus: We in Styria have a big administrative reform, we have seven major regions, and I would like to suggest that these seven major regions should also involve in the federal administration reforms that each major region in Styria has at least one district court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e15937	Next speaker: Mr Höfinger. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e15959	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The topic of financial stability, the subject of the stable future of Austria, is really too serious and too important to accompany and control it with populist phrases, with so many cheaper polemics as we have heard them today from individual representatives of the opposition. But I also thank you for some very constructive proposals in this context. I would also like to mention that. What was the starting point for this stability package? – A European and indeed a global financial and economic crisis that has brought states to the brink of ruin. Austria has dealt well with this crisis because the Federal Government has put in place rapid and efficient measures. The excellent data from the economy and the labour market underline this. We have the highest employment, we can look to the future with optimistic forecasts, and we have the lowest youth unemployment in Europe. That's something very, very valuable. Therefore, it was important not simply to put your hands in the lap and say: Yes, the work was good, that's it!, but to set the course for the future right now, because politics only gets responsibility when it comes to perhaps taking difficult or also unpleasant measures to be prepared for the future of the country in order to make important choices for the future of people. This has happened with an overall package and not only with individual proposals, as they always like to be picked out from the opposition – because it is very plausible – because only when it is a complete package, can we really look optimistically into the future. This package is bound to more than two-thirds of the expenditure side and not even one-third of the revenue side, and this is unique in Europe and should be underlined. The priorities set to stabilise the economy in order to give young people a chance are set in education and research – university billions, school billions – are set in the direction of ecologisation – many measures are needed to improve the quality of life. We have already been explained in detail today – we are moving towards a reform agenda, where many things, especially in the administration, are being put on new feet and made more efficient, and this reform package also gives the families security in the future, gives them help and support. It is a package that also requires a contribution from everyone, but whoever wants a stable future, who wants a secure future, must also make a contribution. The details of this package show us that until the end it was negotiated in order to make it as balanced as possible. I should like to make an amendment which has already been distributed, which is why I can limit myself to the essential points and explain them. It is about changing the employment law, namely the detail, who and how is included in the employment law. Another point is the amendment of the Stocks Act and the Company Code. This is about the fact that in the Cooling-off phase, 25 percent of shareholders can appoint directors to the Supervisory Board, but not as Chairman of the Supervisory Board. It is also about the Civil Service Service Law 1979 and also about the amendment of the Contracting Officer's Act 1948. This is about this 41. It is a matter for the Commission and the Council to take the necessary steps to ensure that the Community is able to take a more effective and more effective approach to this problem. In terms of content, I can explain that, after these deletions and modifications, the renumberings or article designations must be carried out immediately. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a great package that we are deciding today, a responsible package that we are deciding on today, and I can only invite you to accept this package. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e16025	The amendment just tabled was explained in its core points and according to § 53 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure shall be distributed to the Members in the Chamber and shall be negotiated. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e17149	In view of the variety of amendments and additional amendments or requests for separate votes which have been tabled and have been made, I announce that a brief interruption of the sitting in preparation for the vote is not sufficient, and so I shall put the vote at a later date. I will announce in good time when the vote on Agenda items 1 to 3 can be taken. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Höbart. 3 minutes speaking time is set. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e17177	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Höfinger has now called the opposition apostatized as a polemic, so I would now call you a jubilee press. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Höfinger]] I somehow had the feeling, so really you're not behind this so-called big package, you haven't raised this impression. I am now very happy to present some media quotes to you, and you cannot reject them. Josef Votzi of the “Kurier” wrote, for example, that the savings package was juiceless and powerless, a pure wish concert. It will be quickly cashed down, building savings and profit-free payments for companies, health insurance contributions up, incisive reforms are not available. That was the “Kurier”, anything but a free medium, you know. If you go to the head of state Pröll, he might be able to influence this in the future. Rainer Nowak, “The Press”, today often belongs: “SPÖ and ÖVP thank you today () for: They shall adopt measures to determine the specific implementation of which other measures shall be adopted.’; “It is either a unique naughtiness or a very clear evidence of complete political inability.” – It is my presumption that the second is true. – “Both is a real problem for this federal government.” “The strategic Valium passages” – be careful that you do not fall asleep – “ show in the package that the government is afraid to have to explain necessary cuts.” The party leaders Faymann and Spindelegger – both no longer there, as I see it – recognize themselves as more influential than Wolfgang Schäuble. “But perhaps in the government district around Ballhausplatz a new democratic policy success recipe has just been found: We decide on wishes and hopes ( ) from the abolition of poverty to the reduction of crime to the increase in gross domestic product.” – After this motto, the government has been acting for years. Nowak concludes: “It can’t be any more. That's all she wants. And more just doesn’t go any more in Austria 2012.” A testimonie for this federal government. You can't discuss that away, writing it to you related media. All the experts – we know that too – have broken this load package over the last weeks and months, even the own Social Democratic President has distributed some of the proverbial hieb when it comes to this load package, and that is somehow logical. Construction savings are halved, the future provision has also been halved, companies are burdened by reducing the profit-free amount, the social security contributions – I mentioned earlier – are increased and pensioners are dropped. I can tell you one thing: The government is not substantial, it is retiring, we know. Look forward to the election day, because the next election day is definitely payday!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e17250	Next speaker: Mr Grünewald. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e17271	Mr President. Dear Members of the Federal Government! In fact, all experts from the field of health agree that the maximum fragmentation of competences, responsibility and financial flows is an essential cost-effective factor. We are far away from the harmonisation in the field of services, contributions, need testing and quality assurance in Austria. A component that maximumly blocks these reforms and these harmonisations is the countries. There is much to be blamed on the Minister, but where he has nothing to say, he washes his hands in innocence – and we have to do something about it. Do you know the difference – Schelling asked me – between a country captain and the dear God? – The answer is simple: The dear God knows he's not the head of state. - You understand me, right? I do not want to live in the United States of Austria, but I feel how hopefully you are Also, the Republic of Austria is obliged, and we as MEPs are not the extended arm of various state governments and their bosses and have no seat in the Federal Council either. That is why I firmly believe that strengthening the federal government for the benefit of financing security, but also for the benefit of patients, is extremely important. – I will give you examples. I made it far before my time with the Greens as a university politician and representatives of 21 universities for the so-called middle construction, with the exception of the true and real professors, that Minister of Science, Minister of Health and Social Affairs, Hostasch and Minister of Finance Edlinger made a joint letter – that was not easy! – wrote to Landeshuptmann Weingartner and made him aware that the Basic Law in Tyrol had no implementing law in the crisis situation and whether the permanent stone of the onset of the medical private fees. What happened? – He said no first. Then, prior to the Tiroler Landtagswahl von 25 Kliniksteurn 23. gave a complete annonce to the "Tyroler Zeitung", that they trust this head of state because he recognises their competence and because he does not take away the private money from them – but they did not write it in. That's how it was. Two years later, Landesratin Zanon passed a law on which the Federal Chancellery wrote to me and Weingartner that the law was clearly unconstitutional. In the last line was: However, we do not want to object. – That's what I thought: Where do I live? Where do I live? Zanon answered me, if I oppose, there is no law at all, and no one gets private fees from the subordinates, and I am guilty. - That's how it was. Another example: In the health reform it was decided to close cots, partly 10,000, then 5,000 redeployments into actuary drive nets, decentralized psychiatry and rehabilitation. I drove by train to Innsbruck, next to me the competent state officials sat, and I said: Now there's going to be something going on in the psychiatry, and in the actuary, bravo! Then he said to me: We're not doing this! – Article 15a contracts, but he does not do it because it is less punctual. It can't really be! Article 15a contracts are nothing but a feeder of the countries, nothing but corruption – and I say this hard word – because they can be bought up consent to the laws. For decades, the Court of Auditors has criticised the fact that structural funds serve to minimise the deficit of the national hospitals. Therefore, I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] It's a further way, but at least we should go to him.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e17350	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e17412	Next speaker: Member of the list. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e17435	Mr President. Members of the Federal Government! High house! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Now to an area that has long been regarded as the “stepchild” of this failed government, namely, the Austrian federal army. As a red party soldier, your Federal Minister Darabos led the German army, as I said, to the worst crisis in the Second Republic. In political obedience, a further €1.2 billion will be removed from the German army in a few months. With this scrapping package, the motivation of the 23 000 army members has reached the lowest point. The soldiers are bleeding. Framework soldiers lose up to €1 800 a year; this is an average monthly salary. Thus, the existence of soldiers and their families is at dramatic risk. – The soldiers are now being punished for your political failure. That's a scandal! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! It is high time, at the highest time, we must immediately introduce this Sicilian downfall to the federal army. The service providers of the State must no longer be squeezed out like lemons. The scrapping package is a bankruptcy declaration of this Federal Government. They are hiding behind the EU and its requirements from the Federal Government. You're managing the standstill. There are no serious structural reforms as requested by the Court of Auditors in 599 points. The last chance to renovate our state was to playfully. The main responsibility for the scrapping of all citizens in lawn mower ways is the ÖVP. They have been sitting from the ÖVP for decades continuously on the heads of the country. You only pursued black party politics, pursued party interests that serve the preservation of power. Through this false policy, the ÖVP is sinking in the deepest scope of corruption. It is overemployed with its privileges such as protecting exclusively high national bank sanctions. There is no time left for the concerns and fears of the citizens. Suddenly you wake up, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, and worry. They lament that finally it must be saved. As a debt party, you have long sprung up the future of Austria, but now you still have the biggest scrapping package ever. This is an immeasurable and fatal error. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Today and here, the citizens of you, by the ÖVP officials, are invited to the cash desk in an unprecedented arrogance. [[He-Rufe at the ÖVP.]] The people of Spindelegger, Minister of Finance Fekter and, above all, Budget spokespersons are stupidly thrown away. Dear ladies and gentlemen! The citizens are so satisfied with this false and lying policy of these bankruptcys and dissolving EIAs! Citizens expect an honest policy with solutions. And they find this honest policy at the BZÖ. Our boss Josef Bucher has the right answer to every problem. This is the fine difference between the old parties. [[Congratulation and bravorage at BZÖ.]] We say: Enough paid! The state renovation without new burden is possible! Logically, we, the BZÖ, reject this scrapping package to the sharpest!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e17506	The next speaker was Mr Pendl. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e17527	Mr President. Dear lady on the government bank! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! In the course of the years – Karl, because you are smiling – you are usually used to budget debates and, of course, to so-called consolidation packages. [[in the direction of the Abg. Parent]] But if you look at the situation in Europe in real political terms, face-to-face, and you think about how you would discuss a package for another European country, it seems to be a disaster now. It's all being talked about in the ground and ground. No one leaves an area where you can do anything at all. [[Abg. Oillinger: That's not true!]] - Nobody, Karl, that's it! One thing I think, if you're half fair, you can say: In the cross-section, everyone – including the public service, no question at all – made a contribution. As to the balance between revenue and expenditure, I believe everything has already been said, but if someone believes that we could decide here in a solidarity act a stability pact for the future without any groups affected by it, then that is not real. I mean, because it is our home country, our Austria and, above all, our children and children, we should at least discuss it objectively and not tell us the same thing again and again, as we know about the budget debates from each budget chapter. Mr. Liste, this discussion, the 41. An hour is indeed a divisional problem, we all know each other, at least the insiders – I could tell you how many years – and it's not a Lex federal army, because it's no one interested whether we have lawyers in criminal proceedings, who are affected, no one interested in the fact that the police judges are affected. We could now discuss this for a long and broad time. I believe that this federal government has also shown the social component here, because the small ones are all excluded, only the quick-moving and the all-inclusive traffickers are affected. And now I'm saying a little bit plausative and polemic: We are not going to worry about the generals now when it comes to solidarity. Are we at least in agreement? So far only – correctly – to the 41st-hour problem, so that at least we bring in a little bit of materiality. Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that the Federal Government has really tried to deal very closely with the various areas, and that is why it was necessary, I say that in all clarity. If changes are taking place today in the free economy, which is so often quoted, then we know what happens to jobs. We now have a flexible measure, bringing in more movement, even with regard to the relocation. It can't be if I need people in house A and no one in house B wants me to not take them to house A. We know, Mr. Liste, that we have this situation. So, taking into account the time, some of the measures taken by all the population groups. I think you can say, if you judge it objectively, that is a reasonable solution for our homeland and for the future, for the Austrians. Think again, maybe you can agree!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e17590	Next speaker: Member of the jury. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e17612	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Mr Pendl, taking account of the time would actually be: Step back as a government and as a member of the government! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wenninger.]] This Blueeye And this beautiful speech, which these government parties SPÖ and ÖVP present here in the Austrian Parliament today, is actually crying out to heaven. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This load and destabilisation package of the Austrian Federal Government is clear to us where this path, this European path, should actually go, this European redistribution of the very well situated north in the unstable south. However, this redistribution, ladies and gentlemen, will not please the people of à la longue. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This load and destabilization project of the Federal Government also calls on the Austrian municipal government, the black municipal government, and the red town government, when they write that the largest public investors – i.e. the municipalities, the cities and municipalities – are still under pressure. Due to the loss of the pre-tax deduction of 20 percent for non-commercial investments, which are handled in accordance with the model of the Bundesimmobiliengesellschaft via municipal real estate companies, all construction projects are profitable to an extent of 20 percent. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wenninger]] This burden and destabilisation project by the Austrian Federal Government, ladies and gentlemen, is an attack on rural areas. Public transport, which is so important, especially for rural areas, is subject to an additional burden. Finally, let me say something: What about the factor work that the SPÖ is always quoting, which is to be relieved? This factor of work has been stressed even more. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, this is the declaration of bankruptcy of this Austrian federal government, which is why: Step away and clear the way for new elections so that the Freedom Party can finally enter into government responsibility and finally work for this Austria, for our home country and for the future! [[Intervocations at ÖVP and SPÖ]]
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e17690	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Schwentner speaking. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e17711	Mr President. Minister of Finance! Dear Secretary of State! It is a shame that Mr Vice-Chancellor is already gone, I would have liked to remind him that he is also Foreign Minister, but he just left. [[Abg. New builder: outside!]] - He might be outside, exactly. But at least Mrs Minister is also responsible for the area I want to talk about now, and also the Secretary of State. This is about development cooperation and the Official Development Assistance. It is to be feared – as has been done to us; More precisely, we do not know – that the international financial institutions in particular are to be cut short. [[Call for the call.]] No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Then teach me a better one! It is said to be shortened in the discretion budget of the external resort or in your place of business. Since I am a developmentist speaker, namely since 2009, the budget of development cooperation has been moving down in the open. It is now so far that we all know that Austria not only loses international credibility but also its seriality as a partner in priority countries in which Austria has been active for years. What is Mrs Mikl- Leitner doing in this context? – I find this particularly annoying: It also counters these partnerships in the priority countries by not getting tired of drumming that development cooperation should in future be linked to the funds and to the recovery aid – that is the euphemistic concept for the willingness of countries to take back asylum seekers. Those who have only one spark of development cooperation – and I would assume that with the members of the government – should know that one has nothing to do with the other. Why since these mist grenades are constantly being shot down, I am sluggish or can only explain myself as a political strategy to get – obviously – applause from you, from the FPÖ. Otherwise, it is obscene to me, because it is just perfect in addition to and incorrect. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It is not only about solidarity with countries with which we work, but about an international credibility of Austria in this context. We have been told that international financial institutions are at risk. We know from the last time that UNDP has also been affected in the last cuts, for example, that UN organization responsible for development, i.e. development, is exactly that institution that should actually observe how the status quo in the countries in achieving the Millennium Goals, in the contributions of individual countries to make their solidarity contributions. It is precisely this institution that has been cut short! And we must fear that other institutions are at stake. Perhaps the Secretary of State, who briefly nodded, but now speaks on, can give us further information on this later. We have not yet heard anything about the fact that these institutions are really excluded or that development cooperation is excluded from the savings measures. I'd be really interested. You, Mrs Minister, are usually only heard of an blatant confusion of development cooperation with disaster aid. This is not very helpful in this context, and it would therefore be nice to hear signals from you that development cooperation – the 0,00 percent of the budget – is not affected by the savings measures. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I now make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e17791	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e17845	Next speaker: Mr Kirchgatterer. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e17867	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! We Social Democrats advocate justice and budgetary discipline. This consolidation package is not a desirable programme but a compromise between two different parties. A compromise has been reached from two different points of view. We would point out that a number of measures are carried out by those who can afford it more easily, i.e. by the top 10 percent of the Austrian population. ed and Austrians. Ladies and gentlemen! At the top 10 percent, we also see the need for greater justice. The social partners have made important proposals on this consolidation package. Pensioners and seniors are in favour of this stabilisation programme, which is because it strengthens the design possibilities, the maintenance of the social and welfare state in the medium term, because it strengthens employment, youth employment and growth. We want Austria to continue to be at the forefront of work and employment. Unemployment in avoiding youth unemployment is an important goal. Ladies and gentlemen, I refer to expert hearing in the Budget Committee: “Sinful”, “ambitionated” and “machable” were the comments in the hearing. Ladies and gentlemen! The present savings programme differs very positively from that of other European countries, including those of our immediate neighbours. We from SPÖ advocate strict financial market controls, transaction tax, education and security priorities, a strong real economy, social balance and social justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e17909	Next speaker: Mr Neubauer. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e17930	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Cap, you said this morning that in Austria everything was so great that we did not have demonstrations on the streets because the savings package would be so well accepted by the population. Regardless of the fact that, according to all surveys of 75 percent of the population, the burden package – which is in fact, and not consolidated – is not adopted, I can tell you that Upper Austria is threatened by a strike that is based on the socialist trade unions of the public service and that it should have taken place today or within three days, which one has just been able to avert about discussions. But it hasn't stood out yet. And one thing is still on the verge: That a social democratic company forbids its own people to go into strike is probably unique in the history of Austria! – I can still give this to you from the Social Democrats! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to thank 2.2 million seniors, pensioners who have done a lot of work for this Republic of Austria and who are being punished today with a tax package. It is truly incredible how pensioners have to be asked for the inability of this federal government or for the cash register. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I should like to thank you very much, on behalf of the Freedom Party, for their services for this country. It has become fashion in recent years that these people are being insulted that they are actually a Hatz against them, they are qualified as Abzocker, they are called “Kukident-Generation”. – All of this we will not join as a liberal! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] They pay for this load package, ladies and gentlemen, and more and more the seniors hear the following saying: If that goes on, brings our father's state still under Mother Earth! – And that’s exactly what today’s mood is in this country! This load package is not a vision for the future. This tax package is a pure acquisition of money and nothing else, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Or how do you want from the Social Democrats today, for example, a Voest worker who, after about ten years of work, managed to save some money together and create a home, explaining that this socialist federal government has reduced his tax commitment to his construction savings contract by this socialist Chancellor? How do you want to tell these people if you at the same time save the Gagenkaisers of this Republic? They have not taken any steps to find a way to finally intervene in the old politicians' pensions. They have not taken any steps to find a way at the national banks. Mr Wöginger, because you said – he is unfortunately not here, as so often –: With the national banks, that's great, they can pay 3 percent now! – Yes, please, what are these 3 percent for an average income for the national banks? Maximum pensions! 4 500 € Average income of the national banks is currently and in addition still higher-dimensional incomes of the Presidents and Chairpersons. At the same time, the national banks still have their own pension rules. – That’s the reality! You should finally intervene, ladies and gentlemen. That's where you could earn earnings. It is now up to the opposition to mutilate this government while this embarrassing idea is still running, ladies and gentlemen, and to ensure that this idea is also ended. According to the Chamber of Workers in Tyrol, there is currently a debt of €7 billion for the outsiders of the Republic of Austria. Now you can say: 2 billion € are not available, and the other 2 billion € may have been granted a deadline that is still in progress at the moment! – But then there will still be €3 billion, which you would have available immediately if you, Mrs Fekter, would finally be working here! And this would bring all other areas such as education system, health system and the poor pensioners to their right. Only: You don't trust that! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] So if our Federal Government were to take care of the necessary, after that, for the possibility, then it would also be impossible to actually produce social justice in that country. 1.6 million people live at the poverty line or are at manifest risk of poverty, and all the socialists understand of money is the fact that they want it from the others. That is why socialism will not prevail until it is no longer available – and that is my hope!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e18067	The next item is Mrs Dr. Moser's speech. I would draw attention to the fact that only 2 minutes are available until 3 p.m. Do you want to start? [[Abg. Dr. Moser: That doesn't make any sense!]] – So you want to talk afterwards; well, then I will interrupt the session by 3 p.m.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e18103	I'll start the interrupted session again. [[15:00:11]] Short debate on the response to the question 10262/AB
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e18134	We are now entering the brief debate on the question of the German Chancellor's reply with the order number 10262/AB. The above-mentioned answer has already been distributed, so that a reading by the writer is not necessary. We are going into the debate. I draw attention to the fact that according to § 57a para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure no speaker/no speaker may speak for more than 5 minutes. The first speaker has a speaking time of 10 minutes. Statements by members of the Federal Government or by State Secretary-General shall not take more than 10 minutes. I call on the honourable Member to: Dr. Rosenkranz as an applicant to open the debate. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e18171	Madam President. Mr State Secretary represented by Mr Bundeskanzler! In fact, the question to the Federal Chancellor has been raised, but I am of course also pleased to take into account the expertise of Mr Ostermayer in terms of advertising and its design. He is as gifted here as the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany from his time in the cabinet of BMVIT. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In the first part of the questions I made to all the Ministries, I had to ask what advertising services were provided in the second half of 2011. After all – and we always have a discussion about savings – this Federal Government spent a total of €16 717 000 on advertisements in the second half of 2011. It is not about questioning each individual listing. On the one hand, the ads are important things, such as helmet duty, child seats and the like. For other things, one might have to ask whether tax tips in the ball calendar or in the semester program of a Catholic student connection actually speak for the information policy of the Federal Government. But this was not the focus of the request, but the focus is on this – because it is precisely from ministries – that it is not provided for the corresponding discounts. All those who are politically active, in their constituency on the road, receive a wide range of offers from the various print media in the region: four ads at the price of two, and the like. – I actually miss this in the design of the Federal Government's ads! That's why I just asked all the ministries – and get the corresponding answers, also from the Federal Chancellery. These answers are of course remarkable, and then in detail. Why I have now chosen the Federal Chancellor's Office for this question: because the Federal Chancellor has the competence of the guidelines because of the corresponding requirements. Of course, we could have asked the Minister of Finance, because it is a lot of money from the taxpayer used here: 16.7 million in the second half of 2011! In my inquiry I asked: ‘2. On what conditions did advertising in the above media take place?" – A relatively concrete question, one expects a concrete answer. Then I also asked: ‘3. ==References====External links==* Official website by considering repeated orders to achieve discounts? (Please split by medium and conditions!) – Also a relatively clear, precise question. ‘4. If no, why not? 5. Would the media have been able to get discounts? “ What does the Federal Chancellery write me back to questions 2 to 5? – I quote: "The advertising services in the media referred to in question 1 were carried out at the best possible conditions. The Federal Chancellery is always committed to exploiting all available discount options, which depend on different factors such as the time of switching (weekday), placement, frequency and number of circuits in the medium or. shall also be determined by the range of the respective medium.’ What's the BMF writing? – I quote again: “The Federal Ministry of Finance has made every effort to make use of all discount opportunities. Advertising in the media referred to as 1 was made at the best possible conditions. The Federal Ministry of Finance is always committed to exploiting all available discount options, which are of course dependent on different factors such as the time of switching (weekday,, placement and number of circuits in the medium in question or. shall also be determined by the range of the respective medium.’ I can now get you bored because all the answers from each ministry are in the same way. This is "Guttenbergen" to the square. That's the plagiarism. However, in order to save honor, I must say that some ministries – I think two or three – have even made the effort to change a few words. For example, they did not write “advertisings” at the introduction, but there is only“ the circuits. ” So there was a little variation in two to three ministries. That's where you really realized how sensitive that has been done in detail. [[Abg. Riepl: Where is the problem?]] Mr Riepl, where is the problem? – We did not receive an answer to the request! We wanted to have the discounts in detail. The expression “best possible ” is not what we expected as an answer. I can also say: There are interesting processes, namely: When these questions were put on the table, some newspapers became very upset and suddenly returned money to the ministries, where one did not know why and why money came in at all. Mr Riepl, I would also like to repeat it, perhaps you will be able to say in your speech what has been hidden from me. My questions were: ‘2. What were the conditions under which advertising was made available in the media mentioned above? 3rd. ==References====External links==* Official website by considering repeated orders to achieve discounts? (Please split by medium and conditions!)’ You understand, Mr Riepl? Now the BKA's answer; I can repeat it for you again, because you obviously have a lack of awareness of the problem of how to deal with Parliament's requests: “The advertising services in the media mentioned above took place at the best possible conditions.” What's that? You know? How does this express itself in euro, colleague Riepl? You are cordially invited, according to the Secretary of State, to take up the matter accordingly. Ladies and gentlemen, this extemporane with a colleague of social democracy clearly shows what it is all about: It is about concealing what is actually happening here in Austria at all levels of the government! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] There is money given to newspapers with the clear mandate to turn opinions in any form, to bring them in a certain direction – I am not talking about buying opinions at all at all – or is it so that in reality there are no such discounts, but that when the corresponding party secretary comes and says: We would like an advertisement, this discount, not the government that is granted to taxpayers, but the party that is on the row? – Yes, that’s what nobody likes here, of course, that such a thing can happen and will happen in Austria. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] In reality, you use the tax pot shamelessly, at a time when the stress of the older generation is being discussed, about the house builders, about the building savers, about those who have done something for their livelihoods. They're taking away money. But with the ads, happy originals’ are celebrated, as it is at all possible! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And then what's going to be the excuse? – The information content! It's all so insanely important. Thank you, yes, the ads are listed. And there's already the question: Why, please, the Wiener Cartellverband, so a student connection, from the Ministry of Finance needs an image and service inserat for FinanzOnline around €735? Or: Do the ball visitors in the “Ballguide” really need tax tips from the Ministry of Finance by €8 505? What are you doing, please?- Oh, my God! What are these, please, for information content that is being transported there? I'll end up and get together: In reality, it will be necessary to design the media transparency accordingly, so that in the future there will really no longer be any abuse – that party banks will be protected with government advertisements, by giving the parties the right advantages. You have not been willing to answer this question, which specific discounts, discounts and the like have existed. They simply do not want transparency, but as before, everything remains under the spell.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e18247	The speaking time of the Members who have now spoken shall be 5 minutes in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Mr Herzegovina has now come to speak. - Wait, please! I had not registered that the Secretary of State spoke. I think we'll let him take the lead. Please, Mr. State Secretary.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e18280	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Of course I want to comment on this. A lot of assumptions have been made. The maneuver as a whole is relatively easy to see: It's about diverting from different things, from trouble cases in your area. That is why this short debate, which should once again warm up the subject. In the case of an answer to a question, which includes eight pages in total, is extremely detailed, of course also caused corresponding work at the civil service, I find it particularly interesting that the question is addressed to the Federal Chancellery, but everyone who wants to see see, sees, and it is, as I said, easy to see. I find it particularly curious to suggest that there is no wish for transparency. I had the media transparency law written in our department last year. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Deimek: That doesn't speak for you!]] We then negotiated it, and it was decided here in the house. It is very detailed, and it is now also the corresponding documents in the direction of KommAustria on the road. It is also worked there that the system then begins to work in the middle of the year. However, I should also like to give a concrete answer to the individual points you have said. If we answered in detail with each individual advertisement, as we listed it for your request 1, then you would get a book back if we were to represent in each individual case where it was placed, whether there was a placement surcharge or not, where a placement supplement could be saved, which conditions could be achieved in the case of creative services and so on. And after your questions have been asked in a certain way, it is also not surprising that the answers have been made in a certain way. I can only tell you: The answers have not been agreed with us, but the question has led to certain answers. One more thing, if you say the question was asked to the Chancellor because he has the competence of the guidelines: According to the Austrian Federal Constitution, the Federal Chancellor has no competence for guidelines, but there is a ministerial responsibility in each of the departments. This applies both to the question of whether it will be advertised, where it will be advertised, which conditions will be negotiated, and also to the question of the form in which the answer to the question to Parliament will take place. As has been said, together with the coalition partner, we have developed the Media Transparency Act, which has been discussed with the opposition parties. There are still some proposals that have been incorporated. And this law was passed last year. So both this step and the very thorough response that has already been based on the Media Transparency Act show that we are very much interested in transparency. The basic assumption that you have made, namely that you are being advertised to buy media – you have not spoken the word – is, in fact, a massive insult to all journalists in this country. [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: As long as I don't pronounce it, I don't insult anyone!]] Well, it was because of what you said it was recognizable what you meant. The members of the Federal Government advertise because they believe that citizens also have the right to obtain certain information, services. It has also been stated in the Media Transparency Act, which is the aim and purpose of advertising activity: that citizens are also informed accordingly of the work of the Federal Government, where they are concerned by it, where they are interested in where they need information. Current information or also references to service facilities, to service numbers – in the present phase, there have been many contacts of citizens who wanted to know what individual points of stability laws mean for them – to point out where one can turn, either on the Internet or by telephone, of course, has a meaning, and therefore we have done it and do it also to the other colleagues. Mr Fekter, for example, points to the possibility of compensation for wages and so on. These are points of interest to citizens. We have always tried – I assume and assume that the other Members are doing so – to comply with the principles of economy, economy and effectiveness. Therefore, of course, we have also looked at the fact that where there are discount possibilities, these are also used, and that the usual process is not that one agrees on a certain volume, but that the individual circuits are. But if a certain volume is achieved and the possibility of a discount exists, then of course this has also been taken into account. That is, I think, clearly stated in the reply – not to each individual advertisement, because that would have meant a rage and a paralysis of the individual departments. But I believe that the fundamental trend has made the statement quite clear, namely that industry discounts are required to be negotiated in the individual circuits, that this is also taken into account in the question of where ads are placed. On the last point, I would also like to make it quite clear to you: It is a very rough premise – and I reject this completely specified – that discounts are abandoned in order to obtain more favourable party rates. By the way, I do not know where parties would have been employed at the moment or last year. I reject this assumption quite clearly. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e18330	We are now in that block of the debate, where the speakers each have more than 5 minutes of speaking time. Mr. Dr. Kräuber is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e18354	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Rosenkranz, this question today is really heading along the edge of ridiculousness. For in this reply – the Secretary of State quoted it – it is precisely indicated on the Cent, which was inserated where the listing was placed. The population has full insight, but only needs to click on the Parliament's homepage, it can look at it. So, honestly, to do this on the subject of a question, that is self-evident. On one point I even give you the right. They have said that it is also necessary and useful for governments to advertise. And in fact, it is. I brought an example. [[The speaker shall keep an advertisement up to date]] The city of Vienna, the green transport representative shows in an advertisement where construction sites can be expected in the near future. This is important, it has an ecological meaning, because the population knows how to make the way to work useful in the near future. Of course, this also applies to the social sector: EC internal market, EC internal market, free movement of goods, free movement of goods, free movement of goods, There are sensible measures to be taken. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] Because you're in the middle of it, gentlemen of the FPÖ: I've got an advertisement from 2004. [[The speaker is holding up an advertisement again.]] [[Abg. Singer: That's eight years off! That's from the moth box!]] The following situation: Black and blue, primarily blue, then taxed accident pensions. It's an incredibly unjust, socially pathetic process. [[Abg. Singer: Talking about the matter, colleague.]] The SPÖ then brought this to the fore. And what did you do? The President and Mrs Haubner then celebrated this in an advertisement paid by the taxpayer, praised it and said that they had made a promise. So come in front of your own door, Mr. Rosenkranz! That is unheard of: to spread the smooth untruth with taxpayer's money! These are FPÖ listings. [[Abg. Singer: Where are the rulers?]] Or the BZÖ to predict this immediately, because someone will also speak about the BZÖ. I have held here an advertisement, which was then made by Minister Gastinger, in subtle orange, as hard to see. [[The speaker will once again keep an advertisement up to date.]] That was such a 4-page thing, wide spread in the media. And, hoppala, there's a quarter of a quarter-page lupen pure party advertising! I see Mr Haider, who invites you to a meeting for the future of the future of Austria, to a BZÖ event. So this is how you deal with taxpayers' money – and you have the courage and the chuzpe to make yourself there and criticize something?- Oh, my God! Or: If an Austrian ski olympiaster becomes an Austrian, then the one, I think, will probably adorn every cover of every newspaper, there will be no broadcast on TV, no one on the radio, where it will not be spoken. What did Mr. Gorbach do? I don't know if he was a blue or an orange at the time. [[Abg. Neubauer: You don't know anything at all!]] [[The speaker will be presenting an advertisement the other day.]] “Never again Austria!” He has set up an listing in which he points out that Austria is setting an Olympic winner. So, mine. Ladies and gentlemen, if you are evocative about an answer to a question that exactly informs the population about ads on the Cent, then I would really ask: Come in front of your own door!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e18477	Mrs Fürntrath-Moretti is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e18499	Madam President. High house! I believe that precisely because of this debate that we are having today, it shows once again how important it was to decide on the media transparency law in December of the previous year, which, moreover, has come to be on the initiative of our clubman Karlheinz. [[Abg. Kickl: What do you need government advice for?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grosz.]] Mr Herzegovina, I would be a bit careful with the word ‘laughiness’, because only if we look at the media reports, they say that there are still very, very many inconsistencies regarding advertising, especially among state-based companies such as the ASFINAG and the ÖBB, which are concerned with today’s ‘curer’ and also ‘the standard’ and also a contribution yesterday in the ‘report’. So I'd be a little careful. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Herbs.]] – Mr Dr. Herbs, you have already spoken! Now you might be listening to me a little! Let us take a look at the facts! What is fact? – Federal Chancellor Werner Faymann and State Secretary Ostermayer are accused and have been accepted by the Vienna Public Prosecutor's Office. The advertising affair Faymann/Ostermayer is still the subject of investigations by the Public Prosecutor's Office in Vienna, the ad affair Faymann/Ostermayer also employs us and is a major topic in the investigative committee. [[Abg. May. Worm: There are many things that concern us!]] Now to the Causa ÖBB. There was an image campaign of the ÖBB in the “Kronen Zeitung” amounting to €500 000. That's half a million. 500 000 €! There's already to question: Is this image campaign made up of Werner Faymann with the former “Krone” editor Hans Digand correct and right-wing? [[Abg. Rädler: Where are the discounts?]] Was this campaign actually an image campaign for the ÖBB – or was it simply an image campaign of the former Minister of Transport Faymann? [[Congratulations on ODP and FPÖ Members.]] [[Abg. Dr. Strutz: That's it!]] What works in Vienna can also work at the federal level. The advertising specialist Luigi Schober has said, addressed the cost of €500 000: “For this campaign? But then there were very many, obviously very many different repetitions.” “I didn’t do it!” In yesterday’s “Report”, Luigi Schober evaluates the Faymann ÖBB campaign as follows: “I can’t understand that either, I don’t think it worked. This is for me an attempt to get involved in the media.” [[Congratulations with the ÖVP as well as with the representatives of the FPÖ.]] [[Call the FPÖ:Genau!]] In addition, questions should be asked: When financing the advertising campaign, was pressure exerted on the board of state-owned companies? – The former ÖBB General Director Martin Huber reports on a conversation with Ostermayer and the ÖBB Supervisory Board head Pöchhacker in February 2008 and says: “At this conversation I became very clear and unmistakable by Ostermayer about marketing and/or marketing. Advertiser budget, pointing out that the Minister’s position – he says Faymann – “is a distinct sum of it for his disposition. I have rejected this with the very narrow indication that, as the Board of Directors of an AG, I do not think a second about going into detention for anyone, and not for the Minister, categorically (). Two months later, Martin Huber was out of his job. [[Abg. Petzner: Shouldn't you say something about the cost of printing?]] The former board of ÖBB Stefan Wehinger also burdens Ostermayer massively. In his testimony, Wehinger states that “because of the high costs (about 30,000 euros per turn-on), there have been serious conflicts in the public sector as ‘their content is not important’ and, moreover, advertising has not been budgeted. “In addition, the Minister has missed out on the advertisements.” Why several ÖBB managers would have tried to turn off the ads.” Wehinger continues: “Ostermayer then made it clear in my direction that this is either the wish of Mr Faymann or the desire of the Ministry” (). It was “the fact that Ostermayer has linked my personal future () as the head of passenger traffic with the benevolence towards the ads.” [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Strutz: Incredible! Incredible!]] [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: Unmistakable!]] It is also interesting to report in the “Kurier” of 21. March of this year: “Kanzler Faymann wants nothing to do with ÖBB listings – yet his Ministry paid for their processing.” There is no decision on this, according to spokesperson of the Supreme Procuratorate, Vrabl-Sanda. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] There are still many things that have been communicated in the media. The fact is, ladies and gentlemen, High House, I am for complete information. [[Abg. Dr. Strutz: Head for the report!]] As a legislative representative, I assume that the Vienna Public Prosecutor's Office has worked clean and consulted all ASFINAG managers. [[Abg. Dr. Strutz: Head to Headwear!]] If the Procuratorate of Vienna has not done so, that is proof to me, there are the same and the same in our country.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e18702	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Deimek is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e18723	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Yeah, after my previous speaker, there's not much to say. Mr Secretary of State Ostermayer, if you are talking about the FPÖ's distraction, I say you must already have a lot of pants when you argue in this way, because that's below your level. [[Rejoicing at the FPÖ]] You know that. All right, let's get back! Every ministry, except for one, each ministry the same, downright non-responsible. I say today, something has been said, but many things have not been said in the answer to questions 2 to 5, because it is not about the answer 1, it is about 2 to 5. You didn't say something there! And if you don't say anything there, it says a lot to the rest of Austria, because you didn't say if you were negotiating. You didn't tell me if you employed agencies. You didn't say if you wanted to negotiate, and you didn't say why you didn't want to negotiate, because there could have been further questions. And the answers are all self-evident. You answered exactly who the agencies belong to. That's all in your dark circle. You didn't say who the media belong to. And now don't come with the answer: That's not true at all! Why don't you ask where Mr. Chancellor's wife is where your own partner is? It's all tied up. And one must feel sorry for the journalists who are to be bended with this North Korean pressure, but who can no longer be bowed. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Let me give you an example from Upper Austria. That's where an editor told me: Mr Deimek, I am not going to write something against the Minister Sowieso now when the advertising wave from this ministry is rolling. Well, what are we supposed to say? Or: a second case. For example, why does this North Korean pressure come to the ASFINAG, not where it belongs? They were in that ministry at the time. They didn't go to the board of directors as it would have been. You're in somewhere down there. We have documented this – thank God! –, we have also forwarded this to the Public Prosecutor's Office. Down below you have entered and have agreed on four advertising lines below. This went up in the ASFINAG, and then the three ASFINAG Boards say: We don't want to. What was it? – A week later, they were paid out, the contracts were concluded. [[Abg. Dr. Strutz: Unmistakable!]] This is the Faymann method. That is the method Ostermayer, and that is not acceptable in this Republic as long as we are in a rule of law. That's disgraceful! That is not compatible with your dignity. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I can only tell you if you believe you're still in North Korea, then step back! You personally are easy to do, because if Mr Faymann has to resign, you have already set out on your financial path. He will have to keep up with the money of his media interests. This is a scandal in this Republic. We will look at the fact that in the Committee of Inquiry we will also find out precisely the political responsibility, because this cannot continue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e18794	Mr Pilz, Member of the Commission. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating Mr Pilz on his - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e18815	Yes, the colleague of the Austrian People's Party is of course perfectly right. There's a lot to investigate. Therefore, there is the issue of evidence 4 in the Committee of Inquiry. I have also been following with interest how SPÖ’s clubman went to the ÖVP club, who then brought the ÖVP’s speaker. [[Abg. Fürntrath-Moretti: No!]] And now we'd like to know how things continue in the coalition, but because you won't say anything else, I'll tell you. So: SPÖ-Faymann/Ostermayer-Inserateaffaire, Government Council – we will investigate this. I am not prepared to say before the subject of proof 4 what the result of these investigations is. ==References== March something happened in this house. We work on the subject of proof 1, Telekom, not on the subject of evidence 4, which comes sometime in the autumn. ==References== In March, a ÖVP club secretary went into the document room in this House and demanded that the data processing be stopped on the subject of proof 1, Telekom, and that the data processing on the subject of evidence 4, government inseracy, be preferred. [[Call to the FPÖ: But this is a wild accusation!]] Even the computers had to be run down to the proof theme 1. In addition, there is a protocol of the Parliamentary Directorate, which is available to the political groups. The ÖVP has forced the computers to go down to the proof theme 1 so that material can be quickly secured against Faymann and Ostermayer in the ad affair. The officials of the house had to put in an extra layer to provide the ÖVP with ammunition against the Federal Chancellor and his State Secretary. Then the ÖVP's club secretary was asked and – I quote –: “According to club secretary, the hurry is for the protection of the coalition partner.” So, ladies and gentlemen from SPÖ, you have been “protected” on the order of the ÖVP Group. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with greens and SPÖ.]] What is at the top of this protocol? – “The von Abg. Amon files addressed are a delivery on the subject of evidence 4.’ – I really wonder what Mr Amon is doing in this House all the time. Tomorrow he will explain to us as a newly extraditioned Member at the meeting of the Committee of Inquiry that in his Causa, where the prosecutor examines, a single place is not allowed to investigate – and that is the Austrian National Council, because the Amon Member on behalf of the ÖVP forbids it. [[Abg. Head: Delivered you are!]] Where are we now that accused Members who have the fragility to continue to burden our work on the investigation committee then still dictate that the investigation committee should not investigate in its area? [[Abg. Dr. Lopatka: What is this?]] [[Call the ÖVP: That's incredible!]] And the SPÖ participates and says, is okay, the field of ÖAAB-Amon must no longer be examined, and the area of Hakl, ÖVP, must not be investigated and in fact the ÖVP should not be investigated anymore. We just wanted to disappear a few files against the coalition partner. That's our only wish. That says a lot about the coalition. [[Abg. Head: Yes, that's right! Your appearance says a lot!]] That's what you're gonna do with each other. If you already provide each other with files which are not regular and in order to complete each other, in that case always starting from the ÖVP, please – but one thing does not happen: that the main party of Austrian corruption, the Austrian People's Party decides what the investigation committee should and what does not examine. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP]] I'm sure you can't! [[Congratulation with Greens and BZÖ.]] That's really unheard of. I have no understanding at all for the SPÖ that she's holding the bar and holding it up. [[Abg. Grosz: But there are the mafia paragraphs: pictures of a criminal association!]] But what is said in the second verse of the International, which you, colleague Cap and colleagues from the SPÖ, said on 1 January. Are we going to sing again at the Rathausplatz in May? In the second verse of the International, it says: “Unmistakable are called us and servants. ” That is exactly what the EIA has taken to heart, and precisely because of that, against your own interests, against the interests of Parliament, you allow Mr Amon to try, as an accuser, to dictate to the Austrian National Council and the Committee of Inquiry, what can and must not be investigated. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] We need the support of the honest majority in the Austrian population against the dishonest majority in the Federal Government and the government parties so that we can continue to investigate and successfully combat corruption in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e18971	Next speaker: Mr Petzner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e19000	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr State Secretary! We already have to leave the church in the village a little bit or, in order to address the current topic, the black print in the ink barrel. Not every advertisement that is turned on is per se criminal or any criminal machination. It's important to me to hold it. But the crucial question is that of: Does the listing correspond to the content and formal guidelines and criteria? Most importantly, the question is: Who financed and paid for when and why? – These are the two fundamental questions that must always be answered. If the ÖVP is now very excited towards the Secretary of State Ostermayer, then obviously out of bad conscience, because the only difference between SPÖ and ÖVP in this area is that the SPÖ turns questionable ads and the ÖVP collects questionable cost contributions via press associations, where there is obviously no counter-performance. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] So this is just as inconspicuous, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party. I can already point out that it was especially the initiative of the BZÖ together with the Greens, in concrete terms I call the media speaker Brosz, that now, with July in force, we are now a media transparency law – thank God! – in this Republic, which sets out precise guidelines, have set out precise criteria for how ads must look at how they must be designed, how funding looks. [[Abg. Kickl: Are you not also accused of corruption?]] This has been achieved jointly by Orange and Green, while FPÖ, too, has not even been willing to participate in the negotiations. When it comes to concrete work, you are too lazy to negotiate. When it comes to polemizing, you are in the first row. You can discuss a lot of ads, you can also discuss why the Carinthian FPK country captain Dörfler switches huge, full-page ads in the “Kronen Zeitung” where he distributes vouchers for vitamin brew tablets: [[Abg. Grosz: The ads in Carinthia! The whole sheath listing!]] [[Abg. Grosz: I say yes!]] And so you get healthy through the winter!. [[Abg. Wöginger: That's what the Haider has!]] I mean, these are all things where you have to ask yourself the question: Is it the task of a federal head of state to distribute vitamin brew tablets, or is it his job to provide social justice, boost the economy and create jobs? [[Abg. Kickl: Is it the task of an accused in a corruption procedure to play the Morala Apostle?]] In my opinion, it's the second. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Brause tablets do not solve the problems of a federal country. And unfortunately, because of the failure of the FPK government, the federal state of Carinthia has enough problems in the neck. [[Abg. Kickl: Carinthian nesters!]] It's written to you behind your ears, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] On the specific case, the Examining Committee: We will still come to the Causa ads, the colleague Pilz has already said that. We will appreciate this in detail and move forward the political education. The criminal Enlightenment, Mrs Van der ÖVP, is a matter of justice. Unlike you, I trust that the Austrian judicial system is independent, wise, objective, correct and also operates. I would also like to stick to that at this point. [[Abg. Head: You said that differently!]] You are always the first to listen – listen to your own Minister of Justice, Mrs Colleague, who has clearly said, Mrs Karl, that she is sorry that the Austrian People's Party is so calling into question the independent judicial system and the Austrian rule of law. That is unacceptable, and that is also very dangerous. In any case, we will make political information in the committee, because you do not have to worry about it. Because we're just at the committee and you're crying out like this: There's already something to be noticed: Currently, when it comes to clarifying the Telekom painting, the ÖVP is on the brake together with the SPÖ. [[Mr Rädler and Mr Mag. Nice to meet you.]] Then you suddenly talk about closing the Telekom chapter as quickly as possible, because you get stress at once. Then, together, one blocks the charge of central information persons, who can contribute significantly to the investigation of these painters. You can take the first step towards information by giving up your blockade in the investigation committee. I ask you to do so, ladies and gentlemen of the Austrian People's Party. Take an example at BZÖ! The BZÖ was promised yesterday at the Group leader's meeting by all the political groups to ensure that, when we were involved in the Telekom Committee, we did not block a single charge. Not one – because we said: If it is to be clarified, then we stand for this information, then we also bear political responsibility, and then we draw the political consequences if they are necessary. This way, ladies and gentlemen of the Austrian People's Party, you still have it. We have already gone to him and will be honoured accordingly by the voters.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e19142	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. [[15:40:18]] The continuation of the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e19164	I will resume the negotiations on points 1 to 3 of the agenda. Mrs Moser has come to speak, but I do not see it in the hall. Next, Mr Hechtl.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e19195	Madam President. Mr. State Secretary! Dear ladies and gentlemen of the House! From this stability package 2012 to 2016, 98 laws are affected, as mentioned above, and they deal with a wide variety of materials, legislative instruments that have an impact on all areas of society and are nevertheless socially balanced and involve economic measures. With a total volume of € 27.8 billion, this stability package is largely expenditure-side savings and, as Wifo says, with significant revenue-side measures – around 38 percent – a package that will bring the annual budget deficit to zero in the medium term. However, this stability package also uses offensive resources, such as in education, 750 million are channelled into labour market policy, youth employment, of 160 million € in occupational apprenticeship training, into the care funds 700 million. This is an important area for the future and an important investment for the future. Ladies and gentlemen, when it is difficult to deal with times – and precisely these times that we are experiencing now are not simple – it is important to take action, especially in time, measures that are not taken with everyone with the greatest enthusiasm and do not always find the fullest understanding. That is why it is necessary, especially in those times, to make socially balanced, acceptable and forward-looking savings, but also revenue. The maintenance of the bank levy, the increase in the bank levy, the solidarity levy, the maintenance of the foundation tax, the reform of group taxation, the removal of certain tax privileges, the taxation of value increases are just a few examples and take a clear step that shows how balanced this stability package is. Of course, every package – and especially when it comes to a package of savings – needs thorough reflections, reflections and findings, which can often not be implemented in this way from different viewpoints and consultations. I am glad that it is also our culture that, in the run-up to the review and in the parliamentary preliminary process, it has succeeded in introducing some amendments to this stability package. I am thinking here, for example, of maintaining the block-work rule, of the departure of the resolution charge from the compulsory practitioners, the postponement of time or, I say better, the escribing of the pre-tax deduction, which was an essential point for the communities. Today, when we set a course for the future with this package in Austria, we want a future with a balanced budget, so we can spread confidence with this package. We can also be confident and proud because we have succeeded in setting up a consolidated budget by 2016, without increasing mass taxes, without cuts in housing aid and child benefits, without privatization, without cuts in unemployment aid and without restrictions on health care. Austria, ladies and gentlemen, can, in return, proudly point to the lowest unemployment in the EU, looking back at the lowest unemployment among young people, and note the expansion of health insurance. This ensures health care, and as the experts in the Budget Committee have already mentioned, we have the world's best access to health care in Austria. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to conclude by thanking all those involved for their commitment, the social partners and various representatives to their positive action, even though some obstacles had to be overcome. I am confident that we will also achieve the goal of achieving the objective of a balanced budget and look positively to the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e19247	Mr Riemer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e19268	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Today is already a special day: I have never seen as many “believers” as here. Ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ and ÖVP, believe and dream, but please don't make this a nightmare for us Austrians! I am experiencing another day of a further decline in confidence, a tax cannibalism and a departure from the future, with the causers exhibiting the bill. If this budget is really the only solution we need to do in the sense of a life assurance, then you have strange experts. I can hardly see how to deal with the tasks for the future of the state in this budget. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We know that we are in the midst of a process of transformation in which the experience and the recipes of yesterday do not pass on to us. We need creative, inno- vative approaches and social intelligence to overcome these challenges. The change of values, demographic change and structural change that people have to focus on call for different approaches from the current concept. Keywords of the biggest crisis, but in no way justify this flight-to-for-go-to-tohuwabohu. The fact is: Whoever does not shape himself, he is made strange. In order to avoid this largely, we need clear objectives, and I miss them, as well as the visions. Let's talk about visions or balloons – vision balloons: Once again, there is the financial transaction tax, which has already been discussed in detail today. We are talking about the collapse or the scrapping of small and medium-sized enterprises, but we are also talking about the great burden on the population. And again and again most people, the people just wear what you think they are. In terms of construction savings contracts and future security, not only is the reduction so bad, but it is bad that one does not live up to trust and is involved in existing contracts. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It is also about the reputation of the Republic of Austria. And it's bad to leave thousands of insurance sellers and bank employees in the rain. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] They have, in good will, passed all this on to the Republic. Think about the future provision that was handled ten years ago as something to write pension history. I think and I'll ask you: Getting away with numbers and fragmentary rehabilitation activities like a tombola – more for Austria, less EU! Summary: This budget is neither a way out of the crisis nor an investment in the future of our domestic population, nor a distribution justice. How did the press say that today – I quote –: "They shall decide on measures whose concrete implementation shall be taken by others. Chancellors and co. can only hope.” And: ‘A Potemkinian savings package will be decided’. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e19350	Ladies and gentlemen! I would just like to say in the meantime that from the current point of view – it has already been announced that no vote will be taken after the end of this debate – the Croquis will be available at about 5 p.m., so that from the current point of view, it could be voted after the third debate, that is, after TOP 5. In the meantime, however, I will give you another prospect, so that you can discuss this in the political groups. Next, Mr Brosz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e19375	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! I would like to start by referring to a point which is also included in this savings package and which we have actually discussed more intensively in the computer advisory board for the first time. That was the part of the savings package, in which it concerns the harmonisation of Internet solutions, ICT solutions and where the House's computer department has pointed out that this regulation would also include Parliament. And there have been objections, from our point of view, that Parliament should not, as it were, outsource the sovereignty of its data. Now there are very sensitive areas – before one has been addressed – I am thinking of research committees where data transmission might work even more effectively in the future, in the sense of electronic data transmission. However, the point is: Where will this data be managed? Will they be managed under the sovereignty of Parliament – which we consider absolutely necessary – or will they be outsourced, in this case, to the Federal Reputation Office, and, so to speak, is an intermediate? There were then also discussions, a letter from the President and a committee statement – we are aware of that – that, in the end, the Highness can remain here. The point is just: From our point of view, this is not clearly regulated in the law. At the time, we had also proposed making a legal clarification, which I am submitting as an amendment, or which will explain this proposal in the core, because it is extensive and also distributed. This request by Mr Brosz, friends and friends at the legal level is aimed at ensuring that, in the field of legislation, the Court of Auditors, the People's Procuratorate, the Constitutional Court and the Administrative Court, the standards apply only in so far as appropriate regulations and orders have been adopted by their executive bodies, and otherwise the sovereignty remains. – That was the first request I made. The second amendment, which I would like to make, is that which, although Mr Öllinger mentioned, did not seem to have put in sufficient form in the right form. Therefore, to repeat the request of Ölllinger, Zinggl, Treasure to the Stability Act – it has been distributed; I also explain this request in the key points. It refers to pension adjustments or pension changes. The main purpose of the application is to waive the reduction in the lifting rates, to cancel the extra-tourual increase in the maximum contribution base – that is, because this would also result in higher payments and higher claims as a result – the reduction of the excessive minimum contribution base, the withdrawal of the accounts credit – where we believe that this is a basically correct step, but should not be carried out in this hasty form –, the withdrawal of the reduction of the transitional fee, and in the field of labour market policy, the labour market policy financing law, it includes an exception for the cultural and scientific field. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The third request I would like to make now concerns the Court of Auditors: [[Quoted print version removed]] This request would mean that the estimates for the 2015 and 2016 ceilings will be increased by €1.5 million for the Court of Auditors. At the moment, the proposal would include a reduction which would no longer guarantee that the Court of Auditors' work would be to the fullest extent possible. And especially in times of a U-committee, in times of corruption debates, I think the auditing activity of the Court of Auditors is of particular importance. Therefore, funding should also be ensured. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e19460	The first amendment, tabled by Mr Brosz, concerning ICT is sufficiently explained and is based on § 53 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure. The same applies to the amendment that has just been tabled by Members of Parliament. It has also been explained in the main guidelines and is distributed. And the amendment tabled by Mr Kogler, Mr Gradauer, Mr Grosz is properly tabled and is under negotiation. The three applications have the following general wording:
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e20218	Next, Mr Keck. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e20240	Madam President. Mr. State Secretary! Austria is not only a beautiful country, but also a social country, a country worth living and an economically highly successful country, ladies and gentlemen. And yet we must fight to ensure that the excellent positions we hold in Europe are also sustainable. The stability package presented by our Federal Government is the right instrument for this because it contains the right measures at the right time. We will save more than €27 billion, but there will not be a social policy blow for this, as was the case in Greece or Italy, we will not have to make mass announcements for it, as was the case in the UK, and we will not have to cut back on education, as was the case in France. Our path is the result of very tough negotiations with social democratic handwriting. This is a mix of necessary cuts in expenditure, but also of correct measures in the form of new revenue provided here. A prime example of this is the pensions. Many would have liked to see cuts or even a much higher retirement age. We just need to study the unsolicited calls from the media in the last few weeks. Today we can say with pride that the retirement age remains where it was, in corridor pensions, but also in pensions due to long insurance periods, and also the pension level remains untouched. And with all the savings we give people confidence in it, because trust protection, ladies and gentlemen, is not only a technical section in any law for us, but we show that we really mean it with trust. The same applies to part-time work, Mr Oellinger. Only those who know which people used part-time in block form depend on this part-time part-time in block form, who knows why this was maintained. These are the really hard-working workers, the heavy-workers, including shift workers who used this part-time in block form. And even though it has been used by bankers, even though bankers have used this part-time, it must be borne in mind that even these people work and the job of these people is not easy. And yet something has been created in the new form with the replacement power, because this ensures that unemployed people or young people who do not yet have an apprenticeship are recruited here in the form of a replacement force. Third, I would also like to mention the age of women's pensions, which in the case of pensions is really a success, that it has not been overheared and raised in advance, but that it is really thought very intensively about it. It is also important to raise the maximum contribution base extraordinarily. Another step, a very, very important one, is the introduction of a solidar tax on income over € 150 000. But especially as a SPÖ politician from Upper Austria, I do not need to tell you that I would not like this temporary period to be an indefinite matter for me. I would also have liked to see a modern inheritance tax with generous free borders, as well as a property tax. The reality shows that this is not feasible at the moment. However, reality also shows that we are still adopting a truly tangible package here in this House, and I ask the opposition to take away and vote in the sense of those who also need these measures. These are also the pensioners and the workers.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e20276	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Deimek's word. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e20298	Madam President. Gentlemen on the government bank! Ladies and gentlemen! We have already heard: the biggest reform since 1945. - Again. Actually, the biggest blow of reform and warm air, so that the greens are already considering whether they need their own experts to determine whether this hot air bubble is also a problem in relation to climate change. The revenue that is to come from outside will not come, the saving will not take place in the proper sense of the inside, and you are not socially balanced. You only care about the short-term interest, you don't care about the long-term, and you don't care about what is commonly called the general care. For example, they don't care about the drivers, and that's why I bring them as First of all, I would like to make a request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Such a thing would be a package where one could say that is a round package, because we have proper revenue and expenditure, the whole is socially balanced so that The counterparts can also live. Only: Unfortunately, this is not the case. We need to ask you first, and probably you won't do it anyway. There, ladies and gentlemen of the government groups, no healthy prayers, as we know at the moment from the head of state hunter from Tyrol, since no feeding, no hunting and smearing helps, there only helps: doing something. And I can do it. You're just asking: Come along with this request, do something at last! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e20377	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e20450	Next speaker: Mr Tadler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e20472	Madam President. Mr. State Secretary! Minister! High house! In the course of today's debate on the tax package, we have heard a lot about the courage, the availability of reform agendas by the Minister, offensive programmes and so on, but it is totally unclear whether the measures planned for us by means of an EU financial transaction tax and a tax on those who have spent a great deal of money in Switzerland will ever flow black money. Mr President, there is something stupid about this. Mr President, the financial transaction tax has been decided six years ago. Now the debate – which is missing a Secretary of State; two are here – will be a more rich facet, namely for the purpose of applying taxes by Mr Kurz – short is not here – best within the framework of the still unimplemented transparency database. Under these conditions, the proposal by the State Secretary to introduce a defined purpose of 10% of wage and income tax would be welcome. This would amount to around €2.7 billion annually. These could then provide tax paid Austrians with a purpose which they consider to be particularly supportive according to their personal standards. In this context, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I hope for approval – especially by the representatives of the ÖVP, also Salzburg. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e20521	Ladies and gentlemen! The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled by Mr Tadler bears only one signature and is therefore not sufficiently supported. [[Oje-Rufe.]] I therefore ask the question of support and ask those ladies and gentlemen who want to support this request in addition... – He has read it. [[Abg. Brosz: Can we see the text?]] [[Abg. Brosz: We need to see the text first!]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Brosz: Super!]] I read the motion for a resolution again: The Federal Government is invited to submit to the National Council, as soon as possible, a government template containing the following: 10 percent of the wage and income tax can be dedicated by each taxable person to a personal purpose for choice. That is the text of the motion for a resolution. The application shall bear only one signature. I therefore ask the question of support, and ask those ladies and gentlemen who would like to support this request in addition to that, to give an appropriate sign. – That is absolutely enough. This request has been submitted and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e20637	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Lugar. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e20659	Madam President. High house! First of all, we should consider, as we are talking about this savings package today, why we need this savings package at all. This is the central question: Why do we need this savings package? We only need it for one reason, because in advance we have given money to the banks and transferred money to Greece, which we will not see again. And that's why we need this savings package at all, and that's why we're doing this ape here today, precisely because we've done things in advance that we've already condemned in advance, which you absolutely wanted, and that's why we need this savings package now. [[Hello-Rufe at the ÖVP]] [[Abg. Grosz: Who is “we”?]] [[Abg. Grosz: Sorry, who is “we”?]] And that's why people have to bleed accordingly, because you have put the money in the mouth of banks and Greece, and that's why a savings package has now been made. Now we have a financial need for the reasons I have mentioned, and now the question is: How do we cover this? There would have been three possibilities: Either we draw on the administrative reform and get the money there, or we get it from the banks or the speculators who have broken it all, or we get it from the taxpayers. [[Abg. Grosz: Who is “we”?]] And what was done by this government? – The money was collected once again by taxpayers. And in order to cover up the fact that the taxpayer is finally asked again to cover this up, one comes with this transaction tax, where you also need to know that this is not feasible. It is not about whether this transaction tax is useful, good and right. That's not the point. We have always supported this, and the opposition has always supported it. I guess that's right. The question is not whether this transaction tax is good and right, but the question is: If you already know that it doesn't work, can you put these billions you want to achieve into the budget, into this savings package? And this is the naughtiness you have to address here: On the one hand, you know that this is not feasible, and write on the other side Get it into the budget as a take that you can lurk! That's exactly the fog grenades that you're throwing here to hide that in the end only the taxpayer is asked to cash back and pay the bill. Today, we were accused by the ÖVP side that we were now suddenly no longer in favour of this financial transaction tax, and that is not credible and so on. [[Abg. Grosz: Who is “we”?]] This accusation is not entitled. We are still in favour of transaction tax, we are also fighters for transaction tax and we also want you to continue to fight for it. We too... [[Abg. Grosz: Who is “we”?]] Skill Why don't you keep your beak, please?- Oh, my God! You can sign up for a word at any time and make yourself here, but if you call in on a tour, I can only say: Do you have an identity crisis, or what's wrong with you? [[Abg. Grosz: No, you! They stand alone and speak of “we ”!]] [[Further calls.]] [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] So please hold your beak and let me talk here! You can get out of here and say what you want! [[Abg. Grosz: A split personality, Madam President! Do something!]] Well, you want to know who we are. – As you ask who you are: You are a representative of the BZÖ. I hope that this is clarified now, and you do not need to ask this question further. It is crucial that: We were also always opposed to nuclear power. We have always fought against nuclear power – just as you are now fighting for a transaction tax. But should we go to schools now and abolish the iodine tablets? They also cost money. Or do we want to go to kindergartens now and abolish the iodine tablets just because we are fighting nuclear power? Are we supposed to pretend we already made it? Do the same thing But she said: You are pretending that this transaction tax, for which you are fighting so well, has already been implemented. That's exactly what I'm accusing you of: I suggest you put something in the room here, which is not feasible – and you act as if you had already implemented it. [[Abg. May. Ikrath: A vision for the future!]] – Listening First of all, try to spread sand into the eyes with these calls and second with them! Today, Mr Spindelegger has said a lot about what is going in this direction: We have to go down with the debts, and he said in the same sentence: This package we're discussing here today does exactly that. – But you know just as well as I do – but many people may not know – that this package is not at all committed to reducing debt, but it is primarily about not making any more debts. In Austria up to €10 billion are added to our debt mountain every year. And now it is that this debt mountain has a little less to do with it – but not that the debt mountain is being dismantled. However, if Mr Spindelegger claims this, this is again the typical sand-in-the-eye scatter, because he hopes that the citizens will not get what he sees and claims out here. Again: It is not a question of reducing debts at all, but of reducing debt. The following has also been said by Mr Vice-Chancellor – and I would like to end by saying this – namely, he, Spindelegger, is protecting himself from the citizens, he does not want the ownership of the citizens to be affected. But what does Mr Spindelegger do in return? – By allowing new debts to be made in Austria every year, he does nothing but scatter sand into our eyes and pick up the “cuckoo” everywhere in the back of our property, because if Spindelegger gets the political bread of grace, we will have to stand up for all of these debts that he allows here today, and then we will be bleeding in five and ten years. [[Abg. May. Ikrath: Who is “we”?]] - We all, you too! Faith It's me! You too, with your taxes, if you haven't been sitting in this National Council for a long time, will be able to stand up for the horrors that Spindelegger and his consorts are making here today. [[Hello call at the ÖVP.]] That is exactly the point, and that is why I say to you: What you're doing here is a cowardice package. [[New calls to the ÖVP.]] [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] It's a cowardice package. And that's why: Have a little more courage to make a proper package, and do not burden the taxpayer again and again, but at last do your homework! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e20843	Mr Windholz has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e20865	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr State Secretary Arbitrator remained on the government bank. High house! A few things have been said here by representatives of the government parties, and I can do something about this in six points. If one accuses the BZÖ that we are against saving, I can strictly reject it, because we know – and that is clear to everyone – that savings are absolutely necessary. Only: We stand for intelligent saving, keyword: Administrative reform, slender state. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] If you see your templates, you can only say that is not even evident in the approach! The government parties claim that they have come to know that there is a need to save. However, it should be made clear that: This package is based on external printing. Keywords: Loss of Triple A. There was fire on the roof, you found one another from ÖVP and SPÖ. Try this scrap package They sell them so that a debt reduction is carried out. – That too is incorrect! There is no reduction in debt, but at most a reduction in re-indebtedness. The figures that you always mention, these many billions that vote – unfortunately, I say – are not. The financial transaction tax – which has already been said several times in this context – only makes sense in Europe. And if she's coming, it's totally unclear where this tax goes. I think that Brussels will have some considerations to consider. The planned tax agreement with Switzerland is anything but safe. Then why do you do that anyway? – Of course, the representatives of SPÖ and ÖVP know that there is a very simple logical reason: One wants to get over it over the next National Council election, one wants to scatter sand into the eyes of the people and pretend that it was about saving. – This is not the case, and you know it very well. You say you've prepared this package very well. And if we talk to you about the hurry, you say, No, no, this is happening at this time, because it is so well prepared, it is also socially balanced! – Both are wrong! As far as “socially balanced” is concerned, I ask you about a steering effect on land speculation – because the speculant has paid 50 percent before, and after that it pays 25 percent –: Explain the steering effect to me, explain to me how you can call it “socially balanced”! As far as preparing is concerned, I will then take up a clear evidence of the matter. Next point: If you're here from the SPÖ at the speaker's desk, then there's class fight statements to the economy, in fact, one is talking about the other. off. For example: Ladies and gentlemen, here at the speaker's desk, he meant. Yes, we are two different parties, but yet we have delivered a top result! – No, I tell you, this will not be accepted, this excuse must be rejected, because it is, in some way, just a statement of protection! They from ÖVP and SPÖ together form the government, have a joint government programme and unfortunately also a common scrapping package. Therefore: You from ÖVP and SPÖ are both equally responsible for what you do here! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] When the Minister of the Interior is almost in a joyful mood after these negotiations have ended, he says: The match we won is 8 : 2!, as if you had pulled the red over the table, then I may reply to the Minister of the Interior in the football language: The result 8 : 2 has come about in such a way that the Reds have shot eight own gates and the Blacks have two own gates. You may be proud of a lot, but you certainly can't be proud of this package. You will receive the appropriate answer from the population. So, now to my evidence. Everything well prepared!, you said, only: In the last few minutes, the amendments have been rejected by the government parties. For example, I have an amendment tabled by Mr Jan Krainer, Mr Jakob Auer. If you look at this amendment, you see 19 points written by hand, then 20 again. Point, also written by hand. And then it says: “see above. ” Then read up – again written by hand –: The necessary ones from the deletions – that is not at all possible to read successfully; probably this means – article designations and so on. Mein Ladies and gentlemen of ÖVP and SPÖ, it is quite unacceptable to present something like this, indeed the last-class! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Therefore: Full support for the Bucher application, which reads as follows: Redirection of the entire package, back to the start! I can only advertise it, because with what you're presenting here by ÖVP and SPÖ, you're leading yourself ad absurd.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e20966	Next speaker: Mr Kunasek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e20987	Madam President. Dear Members of the Federal Government! High house! It is clear to us that even in an area in a truly unbearable way, it is also saved, which has already been partially saved to death in recent years, namely the German army. I would like to draw your attention once again to all the figures. A total of €600 million will be saved by the year 2016. And if you calculate the “famous” Loipersdorf decisions, the Loipersdorf-Sparpaket, then this is about 1 billion € in savings from the Austrian German army – and this, ladies and gentlemen, in an area that has been saved for many years and systematically to death! But there we will certainly not play for the liberals! That is what we are saying quite clearly: no compromises on security! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, we are quite different from the ÖVP. I would also like to take this opportunity to correct some of the things that have been presented a little blurry today, where it is about ensuring the extended timetable around 41. We're going for a week. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, this is certainly not a success of the GÖD, the Public Service Trade Union, and the President Neugebauer. It was President Neugebauer who was still on the cross-country ski trail, since we have already submitted applications and have our staff representatives for the receipt of this 41. I've been fighting for an hour. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Clickovits.]] I understand, of course, the excitement of the ÖVP. But I would like you not only to protest about Federal Minister Darabos but also, at last, to take action to place accents, where the National Party's manuscript is also present in the security policy. Unfortunately, this is not recognizable in recent years. In conclusion, my dear. Ladies and gentlemen: When we think about savings in the federal army, you can say: Of course there are possibilities. Let us follow the Court of Auditors' recommendations. We will have the opportunity to discuss recommendations in the Federal Army tomorrow. And above all, let us end the pointless SPÖ pilot projects, which will not bring anything out of cost that will not bring the German army to the fore by any meter!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e21051	Next speaker: Mrs Dr. Moser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e21072	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Minister, every milk girl would really wear the shady in the face if it were to make such an invoice as you do, because – and I understand that you are relatively pale today – your bill, your savings package bill simply can't go up because you actually have to write the financial transaction tax in smoking right now and because even the whole Swiss history hasn't been eaten for a long time. Mrs Minister, the most important point is as follows: If you want to go the way that you are now exaggerating or describing to us, please do not forget to do so to the tax sinners, tax refugees, the Austrians who hoard black money in Switzerland with your one billion you have estimated, at least, I say now, 19 billion €, because actually you would have to yes, account is your own story again! [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter: Akont ist das!]] We could get it directly to the account if we had already rigorous legal agreements with Switzerland to the extent that the USA had. The United States has insight into the individual bank accounts and, in order to really manage the US citizens' tax money, can also access Swiss accounts. I don't understand at all that we Austrians are asking those who invest there of us as a neighboring country – as a neighboring country! – cannot look into the cards. But I'm only talking about billions now – by the way, Mrs. Minister! I am referring, first and foremost, to other billions of money and a few billions. I have already kept the billions of infrastructure investments before you: the uncovered checks, the wastes on the financing of motorway constructions, with regard to the large-way projects projected. They're all billions. The Court of Auditors has criticised this in its accounts. We have already shown a corresponding graphic in the plenary session. Not only do you continue to write all of this – with some small delays, because it is put on, which increases the amount again, instead of deleting it – but not just that, no, on the other hand, you will indirectly reduce the means of public transport by practically undoing the exemption from the mineral oil tax. In the future, the ÖBB will have to pay mineral oil tax again, and the individual public transport companies, the national railways, the Vienna line will have to pay again mineral oil tax, although their form of transport, their form of public transport, will in principle take account of and tax the budget of the individual. You don't have to spend so much on mobility if you have cheap public. In addition, your colleague, Mr Berlakovich, as Minister for the Environment, has attached a great deal of to his flags the removal of the Most Liberation as a gender equality. This is also completely counterproductive, ecologically. It's an economic nonsense, because you're practically moving the costs only from yourself to the countries or, so to speak, to the owners, to the owners of these individual transports. And ecologically, it is stupid, because this will make public transport expensive in the near future, probably also the railway tariffs. And that is why I make the following request – a request that is, of course, relatively rich in numbers, numbers and paragraphs –: [[Quoted print version removed]] This is just a small taste, also a small insight into the formulation of legislative texts. It's relatively complicated. There is a simple green approach behind that: No reversing of the Meast exemption for public transport, because in view of the rising fuel prices, in view of the additional burden caused by this savings package, especially the poorer populations, we need attractive, favourable public transport – also beyond your budget policy, Mrs Minister! – I thank you for that.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e21155	The amendment which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e21235	Next speaker: Mr Scheibner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e21256	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! We have this very close line between today's decision-making and the entry into force on 1 January. April, that is, Sunday, criticized within four days. But now the whole thing has become even more dramatic, because the government parties have now tabled a large number of amendments. To this end, it should be said: We people's representatives are also required to know what we're voting on, or at least to know what we're voting on. And I really ask you now – Mr colleague, you are just looking so interested! –: Do you know what these amendments now contain, Mr Bartenstein? [[Abg. Dr. Bartenstein: In principle already!]] I don't think so! And that is not to blame you, for it was brought in an hour or a half an hour ago. You can't even read that through! There are references to paragraphs [[State Secretary Mag. Arbitrator: Yes!]] Mr. State Secretary Arbitrator says yes. [[Abg. Krainer: It was sent out yesterday!]] Ah, it was sent out yesterday! Good. I can't remember the following being sent out: an amendment Yes, I read it to you, Mr Matznetter! [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: Read, Mr. Scheibner!]] I do not even think you know what has been sent out and what has been brought in. I read to: Amendment tabled by Mr Jan Krainer, Mr Jakob Auer. – Mr Krainer certainly knows what he brought in. – There are a number of articles. I'll tell you at first glance: It may be that I am wrong, but it seems to me that about 5 retroactive entry into force, at least a retroactive effect of a law, takes place. I would've been interested in that. All right! [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter: This is a gap!]] See, a loophole! I'm glad you need to discuss this now. So we could discuss this too. I hope Mr Krainer also knew. It goes on side by side. But, ladies and gentlemen, then it comes! And I'll tell you: I've been here in the House for many years now, but I haven't seen such a request, and this is about 19 points, and then a point 20 is handwritten, and there says: ‘See above’. If you look at the top, you see, it was handwritten something written on the top of the page. Mr Matznetter, did you write about this? You wrote that? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] Have you ever seen in such an important matter an amendment by government parties, where you have written a point in hand written with the note: “Look up”? And then you can decipher that. And I'll tell you: I'm having a hard time. I even took a glass with me, so I can decipher it half-way. I don't know who wrote that. But maybe you could have written it in writing at least. There is then the re-numbering required by the deletions – thanks – of the article, could be: the article designations – are in the table of contents – you can read it – and with regard to the deletion of Article 48 in that – I really can't read what it says now. [[the speaker reads the text using a magnifying glass]] [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter: -numberings!]] [[State Secretary Mag. Arbitrators: Without lupe!]] [[Interlocutory remark by Federal Minister Dr. Fekter, who together with State Secretary Mag. Arbitrators are reading the handwritten text of the application.]] Please? Now, ladies and gentlemen, you're deciphering this manuscript. [[Abg. Mr Grosz: Madam President! That's incredible!]] [[Further continuous calls to the BZÖ.]] I think that's really ad absurd now: If we now have to discuss what handwritten additions to amendments are to mean, and you all want to explain to us that you know what you are voting on, then thank you, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Grosz: This is a cowardice! That's no more parliamentarianism!]] That's all you need to say. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Madam President, I hope that you will fulfil your responsibility and not wait half an hour until the Croquis is ready. And I say, I would always like to congratulate Parliament's management, which makes it so great to formulate such difficult amendments for the Croquis very quickly. But that's the formal. I am also concerned with the content: that at least one should have the opportunity to question and understand the things that are decided here, too. Madam President. I call for the negotiation to be postponed, for this to be carried out accordingly and for the vote to be postponed not at 5 p.m. but at a much longer time.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e21455	There are no more words. First of all, I conclude the debate. I insist, as already announced, that the vote will be moved backwards. I've also said: It will certainly not take place before the vote on item 5. I would like to point out to Mr Scheibner that I will certainly talk about this in the next presidential term. [[Abg. Grosz: This is very friendly of you!]] It's not forbidden, you know. It is legally permitted. I once looked at the original document of the Austrian Federal Constitution in 1920, as voted. There are only handwritten changes. [[Abg. Grosz: Well, that was 1920!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: But we are not in 1920!]] Everything else was in print. I'm just saying it. So it is not prohibited, I would like to say so, and that is why the future procedure is a matter for the President-in-Office. I just wanted to hold it at this point. Mr Brosz spoke on business. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e21518	Madam President. With regard to this amendment, I would like to ask for clarification. Since point 20 was added below, but then added in handwritten form above, I assume that the signatures on this request were already on it before, otherwise there would have been room below to add the point 20 below as well. I would like to ask you to clarify whether the Members who have signed this request in the final version have signed it and whether this request has been signed by them or whether it has subsequently been modified by anyone, I do not know, by whom, after the signature has been made. I thought it was extremely problematic both in terms of business regulations and in terms of law. I would like to ask you to clarify what has been done here.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e21548	Mr Scheibner spoke on business. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e21572	I just wanted to remind you that I also put forward a motion for a Rules of Procedure to postpone the proceedings. You have now closed the debate. I would therefore ask you to take into account that I have requested the postponement in the debate. And we have to vote on it, because the problem that Mr Brosz has just raised must be clarified. One must also have the opportunity to speak, because that is already a serious question whether these amendments have been tabled in accordance with the law.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e21606	Mr Dr. Fichtenbauer on the Rules of Procedure. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e21630	Madam President. The Freedom Party shall accede to the objections to the Rules of Procedure of the voting project. In particular, the concerns expressed by Mr Brosz are worthy of consideration. It is therefore necessary to establish whether a correct application is in place in accordance with the rules of business. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It is also important to consider the complexity of the amendments which make it impossible for Parliament to take due account of the content of these amendments in order to take account of the request made by Mr Scheibner for a postponement. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e21670	For business treatment: Mr Krainer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e21694	Ladies and gentlemen! As the first applicant, I can say that the application of my knowledge has been properly submitted. The Parliament's Directorate then found that the article had to be renumbered because of Article deletions, and proposed that this wording should be chosen here, which I would like to quote once again: Z 20 reads as follows: [[Inter-calls at the BZÖ]] The renumberings required by the deletions are in the table of contents and with regard to the deletion of the type. 48 in the following articles and the amendments to the number designations in the form. 37 and 38. - Quote. I was the first to be asked if this is all right that this has been inserted in such a way, and I have confirmed that I agree that this change is being made in such a way. [[Abg. Grosz: This has been written afterwards!]] [[Abg. Brosz: This was a confirmation: Modified after signature!]] Of course we can discuss this here No! [[Abg. Grosz: This is a confession!]] This is exactly what happened at the suggestion of the Parliamentary Directorate, and of course I have supported it in this way and I support it. I believe that all of this has been done properly. But I am sure the President can do this with the Parliamentary Directorate, because of their determination. 20 has been inserted, including clarification.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e21769	I can hold on one second: While this clarification took place, the application had not yet been submitted. That's clear! That's confirmed by everyone! [[Abg. Grosz: But it has been made retroactive!]] No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, [[Abg. Grosz: But he just said that!]] He was here, but wasn't brought in, ladies and gentlemen! He wasn't brought in! [[Abg. Grosz: But the signatures came up before the change! These are so-called blank signatures!]] He was neither distributed nor brought in, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Grosz: These are blank signatures, of course! He just said that!]] No, no, no, President of the club Dr Glawischnig on the Rules of Procedure. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e21858	Madam President. However, I would ask you to hold a short session and a short stand-alone session. I think it is clear that if a first-applicant agrees to an amendment that he cannot make a de facto advance of his signature for seven or eight other Members. We are in a very delicate time situation. You know that the Federal President will have to examine the constitutional status of these laws very carefully in a very short period of time, and I think we cannot afford to simply get over a very difficult situation with such impurities. That's why I'm asking for a conversation!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e21897	I'll do the following now: I will actually interrupt the session – but not to a conversation, but to clarify whether all the Signatories were also involved in the process. [[Abg. Grosz: That is not enough, Madam President.]] The sitting was suspended.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e21939	I'll start the interrupted session again. It will be distributed again to the exact specimen brought in. Each of the Signatories has paraphrased it in its own hands – you see it on the same document that, before the document was inserted, the handwritten supplement was carried out. By the way, I am told, and this can also be proved in a protocol that reference was made to this in the speech at the time of the introduction. I will review this on the basis of the Stenographical Protocol. Mr Fichtenbauer, you have, I believe, once again spoken.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e21978	Yes, Mrs Glavischnig was in front of me, let me point out this politely. – You pointed out in front of me, I went after you
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e21994	But I gave you the word first, because it's just about who I see first. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e22009	I'm working on my reputation of being always polite. I would also like to keep that in every conflict situation. Madam President, you have declared the end of the debate on the item on the agenda. It is therefore not possible, on a business basis, to re-examine a request made after the decision to close the debate. It is therefore unacceptable to debate this request now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e22041	Mrs. Klubobfrau Dr. Glavischnig, please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e22066	Madam President. I would just like to say once again for the Minutes: First: The debate was closed. Secondly, The applicants did not make any subsequent signatures stating that there had been a handwritten change. That is, they did not sign the final version of the request. The final version of an application, which is conditional, must be signed by five Members. This is inconceivable in commercial terms. The question of whether this is a constitutional state of the law now lies with the President of the Federal Republic of Germany and not with this House.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e22099	President of the club, once again: I do not want to be misunderstandingd, and I will also distribute this document. The original signatures are on it, and they were on it before the document was filed. Now on this document of each of these Members the signature is once again on it, you read every signature twice, this as a confirmation that it is the original signature. So that's more I can't do at this point. Mr Grosz has just spoken.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e22129	Madam President. In his speech to the Rules of Procedure, the honourable Member Krainer confirmed that this addition, in the form of hieroglyphs, which cannot even be deciphered in the last point, was handwritten on the request after the signatures had been made. That is, there have been so-called blank signatures for an amendment that has been extended in an illegible hieroglyphic script. In addition, Madam President, you have now, after the debate has ended, once again let the signatures be paraphrased, thus confirming the authenticity of the signatures – that is, nobody disputed – but not confirming, because you cannot confirm that the signatures on this paper have been done before this amendment has been made. And this is the point that is now being recorded, also by the Rules of Procedure of Mr Krainer: Amendments with blank signatures, handwritten. First of all, the honourable Member made the signature, and then a change was made by a Member. – This is to be logged. Secondly, I would like to remind you once again, Madam President: They are President of the National Council and responsible for ensuring optimal and appropriate session procedures here. In this regard, I would also like to point out that the President of the Federal Republic three weeks ago, in the event of minor events, is only about the time factor: Friday Federal Council meeting, Saturday ceremony and Sunday entry into force, a media veto has already quietly introduced, that it will be a found meal for its constitutional expert Adamovich and that this National Council will be blaming once again. We are not an inn, where such requests are subsequently formulated, but we are still the Austrian Parliament. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: You're making this an inn!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e22171	So I can't explain more than that the signatures on the proposed amendment are correct. I can only say once again that the document has been introduced with the handwritten supplements and the signatures, that is to say, and the addition has not been made between them. That is, when this amendment is tabled, the amendment has looked the way it is here. - I just wanted to hold that. That's all it's all about. That is why the vote will have to be taken at a later date. By the way, we will, of course, vote on the request for a postponement before entering the details. [[16:50:04]] 4. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (1653, e.g._Other Organiser Agreement on the establishment of a Customs Cooperation Council, signed in Brussels on 15 March. December 1950 (World Customs Organisation) and the amendment of the Agreement establishing a Council for Cooperation in Customs Cooperation (1706 D.B.)
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e22201	We're now on the 4th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. First of all, Mr Eßl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e22229	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! I think that this item of the agenda will cause less excitement than the previous debate when it comes to adopting an agreement or amending the Agreement on the establishment of a Council for Cooperation in Customs Cooperation. I would like to point out what this Customs Cooperation Council, which was founded in 1952, was once known as the Brussels Council and is now called the World Customs Organisation. Today, he is a member of 176 states worldwide, including Austria, of course. This World Customs Organisation is a professional organisation which deals exclusively and systematically with all the problems that customs technology poses in the widest sense to the administrations and the interested economic groups. The aim of this World Customs Organisation is to achieve the highest possible degree of harmonisation of the customs systems of the Member States and to provide advice on the customs matters arising from development and technical progress. Since this agreement has been a number of years old and has changed a lot in the meantime, especially as regards the European Union, it is also necessary to amend this agreement. The customs technical issues of international trade dealing with the World Customs Organisation mainly fall within the exclusive competence of the Community for the EU Member States (Customs Union and Common Trade Policy). Because membership is reserved exclusively for countries, the EU has so far only enjoyed observer status. In order to enable membership of the European Union, the Council recommended amending the Agreement. To this end, the World Customs Organisation's founding convention should be amended so that customs or economic union can also be approved as members. I could now list the contents of this agreement, which are mainly technical in nature, but I will not do so. I would simply like to point out that within the framework of this World Customs Organisation, the Community will focus on the full spectrum of customs issues, in particular the following comprehensive reports: the origin of goods, nomenclature and classification in the harmonised system, the simplification of customs values and the harmonisation of customs procedures and trade facilitations, the development of standards for the security of the supply chain, the development of standards for the enforcement of intellectual property rights, the development of capacity for the modernisation and reform of customs duties, including in the context of development cooperation, mutual assistance for the prevention, investigation and aggression of customs infringements. Ladies and gentlemen, we have just decided to conclude this agreement and to amend this agreement. There was unanimity in the Committee, and I assume that we will also decide unanimously here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e22265	Next speaker: Mrs Bayr. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e22287	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We will all do something today that we will probably no longer do in our entire parliamentary life, we will all agree to a template that Figl and Grains have signed. From formal error: One happened, too, in the fifties. It has simply been forgotten in the fifties that this agreement should also be decided in Parliament. We'll do this today with 60-year-old delay. We've lived very well with that. We have implemented all that has been said in the Customs Union Agreement, even over the last 60 years, in this way, and it has worked amazingly. My previous speaker has already said what we decide to change, namely that the European Union can join. But this decision nevertheless gives the opportunity to keep replicates, which has actually changed over the last 60 years on the duties of customs. And there's a lot there. I think that in the 1950s the question of biodiversity was probably not a particularly exciting or widely discussed one. Today it is an important task of the customs to see that plants or animals covered by the Species Protection Act or under the Washington Convention are discovered and stopped. It is looked forward to the fact that these products with which it is prohibited will not really be traded. This is really a work of customs duty, which no one probably thought about 60 years ago and which is very important. Similarly, it is likely with the dimensions that illegal trade has achieved. I assume that even 60 years ago, there was drug trafficking, including arms trafficking, perhaps not trafficking in human beings. But in the 1950s the extent of this illegal trade in products and with people today was certainly unimaginable, even in terms of financial values of money, people and goods that are being postponed. And a third very important task of customs today, as opposed to 60 years ago, is the question of tax havens, namely to dry these tax oases, to prevent illegal money flows, to see that money flowing there goes into the tax pot that is financed by public budgets, social infrastructure It notes that there is security of existence and that sustainable development is also ensured, and that there are not summaries of illegal black money in the pockets of any criminals. Unfortunately, we know from the media report that it is true today that not often very large sums are also brought across the border in the case or in the plastic sack. To prevent this is an important task of the customs. I welcome the fact that we are ratifying this agreement after 60 years, and believe that the European Union can also become a member of the Customs Union is a very useful one. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e22332	Next speaker: Mr Windholz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e22353	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) High house! The agreement on the establishment of a Customs Cooperation Council is a correct response to be fully supported. Everything that happens in the area of customs infringements is usually an international activity. Therefore, customs should not be a purely national aspect or within the EU. These answers are basically, if possible, to be given worldwide. There are 20 articles here that cover the whole field. I can now refer to an article, that is Article III. There are eight points there. And I can quote one of them: ‘The Council shall have the following functions: (f) ensure the dissemination of communications, customs provisions and customs procedures.’; In the direction of the Minister of Finance, but also in the direction of the Minister of Economic Affairs: Please take care of this. There is always a certain uncertainty in customs matters. The better you inform the economy, the more complaining the customs procedures will be. The customs system ensures fair conditions for the economy, and it is only to be welcomed if what is provided for in customs law is actually implemented. In this context, I was already waiting for an answer from the Minister for Finance to the question when the previous speaker of tax havens et cetera. I am already very excited about the answer, because this is about the VAT, as I mean, a customs procedure that should not take place long ago. We are going to get the answer, as I believe, in mid-April, and this should perhaps be a preliminary discussion now, where there are tax havens everywhere and where customs administration – and this is the Ministry of Finance, in particular the Minister of Finance – is still looking away until now. – I hope that will change too.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e22403	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request of the Financial Committee, the conclusion of the State Treaty in 1653 of the Supplements in accordance with Article 50(1). 1 Z 1 B-VG. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their agreement to do so to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously accepted. [[17:01:17]] 5. Point Report by the Committee on Economic and Industrial Affairs on the motion for a resolution by Mr Konrad Steindl, Dr. Christoph Matznetter, colleagues on a Federal Act amending the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Laws on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Seas and the Seas (1713(d)
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e22454	We're now on the 5th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. We are going into the debate. The first is Mr Themessl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e22484	Madam President. Minister! Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! This is about two basically different materials. On the one hand, on the economic loyalty law and the accounting law, and on the other hand, on a change in the trade regulations. We see the two things differently in principle and have therefore also tabled a request for a separate vote here. I will now concentrate on the first part and tell you why we reject this proposal. This is about the amendment of the economic loyalty law and the accounting law, and this is essentially about three points that arise. [[President Neugebauer shall take over the chairmanship.]] It is first of all about the calculation of working hours: It would then be the case with this new law that a HAK graduate would be substantially preferred to a BWL student or the BWL student would be at a disadvantage. The reason for this is: Now, after three years of professional practice, a person can take up the audit of the balance sheet, and then, after five years of experience, take the tax advisor's examination. In the case of HAK graduates or in the case of HAK, this three-year period, i.e. he can immediately take the account of the audit and can then take the tax advisor's examination after five years. That means that he is with about 23, 24 years of audited and approved tax advisor. If a person completes a BWL study – a minimum study period of four and a half years – he is finished at the age of 24 and then has to prove three years of practice thereafter. In other words, at the age of 26, 27 he can take the tax advisor's examination and is of course difficult for the HAK graduate to be disadvantaged. - That's why we reject this. The second reason is the balance sheet limits. We have already called for an adjustment, but not to this extent, a year ago – I believe, over a year ago. At the time, we assumed that the balance sheet balance sheets for balance sheet holders will be increased from approximately €360 000 to € 700 000 or € 1 million, but not to the extent that they are now taking place. Even account holders have already contacted me in part; and they also do not understand the adjustment in this order. The adaptation you are now in the law It would mean that more than 90 percent of all Austrian companies could in principle refrain from the services of a tax advisor because a balance sheet holder is fully successful. I don't know. Do you want to abolish the profession of tax advisors? – After all, the very large companies rely on large international tax consultancy firms. The third point is the forced change from the Chamber of Economic Trustees to the Chamber of Commerce. This is, of course, already caused by disadvantages: Now it is that in KWT the members have the opt-out rule in health insurance. That is, they can freely choose where they can insure themselves. It'll fall away. And the second, which is much more serious, is that now in KWT there is a private pension insurance in which the members of the board pay, and then there is no possibility of voluntary payment of this pension insurance, but there is only the possibility of leaving – and that, ladies and gentlemen, is a serious disadvantage. I don't think you let it go through your head. For the reasons mentioned, we will reject this position. To the position of dental technicians, my colleague Dr. Karlsböck will say something. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e22549	Next speaker: Mr Steindl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e22570	Mr President. Estimated Minister of State! Ladies and gentlemen in the House! The economy is always in dynamic development, and therefore it is also necessary to change professional rights in a dynamic manner. We have stood with the relevant professional group representatives in long negotiations, including in party negotiations, in order to bring about a corresponding order. Unfortunately, it was not possible for professional group representatives to find a consensus. That is why we have agreed to start a parliamentary initiative here together in order to make the appropriate adjustments. In concrete terms, this own-initiative proposal amends the economic loyalty law, on the one hand the trade regulations, and, on the other hand, in the demarcation of professional rights, as regards balance-sheet accountants on the one hand and as regards dental technicians in demarcation to dentists on the other. The starting point was the fact that we had value limits of €350 000 for balance sheet holders, which were no longer up-to-date. Considering that the accounting obligation alone now amounts to € 700 000, one could not have worked accordingly either. In addition, there was also the need for this after these negotiations between professional group representatives had been scaled to such an extent that the KWT, the Chamber of Economic Trustees, the accountants and accountants in their Chamber no longer wanted to keep and announced membership to them. That is why a new order had to be found from home, and the accountants, accountants and human resources converters are now being transferred to the Austrian Chamber of Commerce, creating clear professional groups, professional rights and the necessary membership. I already know that it would have been better for many balance sheet holders to stay in the KWT – mainly because of that, because there is an insurance there, a social security, which is much cheaper than that in the commercial economy; however, the benefit is also an appropriate one. With these new values, we have chosen the boundaries of the small GesmbH so that we do not introduce static boundaries and do not have to adapt these static boundaries over and over again. We have now also included employee employment in professional law for the calculation of staff and balance sheet holders, as well as the corresponding maintenance time, i.e. the practical time, for the achievement of the admission to the tax advisor review from nine years to five years. There is therefore a corresponding permeability. From our point of view, the permeability of the professions in relation to accounting is necessary, because we also know that we need young people in these areas in particular and that young people need to be introduced to these professional groups. If you look at the market shares that affect this market of tax advisors, you can see that these are currently in such a way that, for example, 93 percent of this market is the market owner and tax advisors and about 7 percent of accountants and accountants. So I believe that since the fear of tax advisors is not justified that they will no longer find employment in the future. We assumed that competition must take place among qualified persons. This means that everyone should acquire the appropriate qualifications. Then he can also work in the corresponding professions. We did the same thing with the dental technicians: We have finally legalized what has been a long practice, namely that the dental technicians can also perform their prints in the patient's mouth – under the supervision of the doctor or in the doctor's ordination. A compromise that probably does not please everyone, but, as I believe, brings a corresponding order into these professional groups. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e22634	Next speaker: Mrs. Dr. Lichtenecker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e22656	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It is rare that we have a matter in the Committee on Economic Affairs and Industrial Affairs, such as the trade regulation, which produces so intense reactions on both sides of the parties concerned: the balance sheets and tax advisors – and the mailboxes are flooded with emails and the different views are presented. Yes, of course it must be that one finds a compromise, but what is very important, Mr Steindl – and I would like to stress this here – is that: It is also about fair conditions for competition. I think paying attention to that and trying to defy it is an art. This is truly an art, and I believe that this law has been overturned in a number of areas, such as the increase in sales limits. I think an approach of € 1 million would have been enough to meet the demands of the balance sheet owners. The total turnover To increase the balance sheet amount in such a way, I think, is far beyond the objective. I also believe that it is good that the account holders can carry out the employee's business. That makes sense, too. The reduction in working hours from nine to five years can already be discussed as to whether this is actually in line with the quality assurance of the profession. Summa summarum and, when considering all aspects, we believe that one point or another should have been made in accordance with the negotiations before, but above all, I think, it would have been important to prefer a “normal legislative process” here, under quotation marks, so that one also has the relevant assessment phases. That is what I consider to be a great defect for this law and for this area. . We will not support this area in this form. The control of dental technicians is something that we can quite agree with and that we will support in this form.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e22704	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Matznetter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e22725	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! I wanted to underline once again what colleague Dr. Lichtenecker has already said: We got a real mail flow, and actually I was moody on the weekend that I said maybe we should delete the balance sheet change at all. This would not have been entirely in their interest because we give the profession much more opportunities with this law, and so some well-intentioned lobbying proposal in the mail then comes a bit strange to a member of a legislative body. We have improvements about which some colleagues now say they may even go too far, at the same time one is bombarded: We have not enforced 100 percent of our demands! – So you have to be at the point, and that is what I would like to write to those who organize this lobbying into the main book: That was a limit to not doing it at all. This method – so to speak: I want to reach 100 percent of my business with flood and spam, and if the sausages do not do so, then you have to write it in an appropriate tone – is a method of handling that is not the best. The dialogue is good – this should be an open house, which also helps to assess how things are – but I wanted to underline this in advance. Perhaps once on the questions raised as to whether the borders are too far: We have already held a longer discussion – also with the opposition parties – about how we deal with the problem of value boundaries. The difficulty is that sales alone are too low in terms of the quality requirement to be applied to the accounting system and thus to the person who manages or even closes this accounting system. This can be a small traffic with a turnover of €300 000, which may at some point have €500 000, and it can no longer do so, although nothing has actually changed. However, this can also be a company with a holding function, with 1,000 employees, a huge balance sheet and an interna. (ii) the need to improve the quality of the financial markets; (iii) the efficiency of the financial markets; (iv) the competitiveness of the financial markets; (iv) the competitiveness of the financial markets; (v) the stability of the financial markets; (v) the stability of the financial markets; (v) the stability of the financial markets; (v) the stability of the financial markets; (v) the stability of the financial markets; (v) the We have therefore decided, in the proposal for an initiative, to go back to the size class that the European Union is currently planning. It provides three size classes for the capital companies, and the smallest size of the capital companies leads to a number of consequences: They do not need to be completed in full, they have a relief in the situation report, so the European legislator already provides for reduced requirements. We have taken them and have thereby drawn back to a relatively secure European legal system; at the same time, that is true, what we are doing is a very generous regulation for accounting. I don't think it's inappropriate. If we look at the little GesmbH – we usually don't need even a test – then that's a size you can use. With regard to the second point, i.e. training periods, the following points are added: Of course, the theoretical case is imaginable, it is just not at two corners. The one is, you can't start the investigation immediately, because, in fact, until you've been notified, until that's done, it's also going to be with the Parity Commission. The second point is, I know enough other cases where the reverse is faster. You just need a shorter education, it could also be a college with four semesters. The HAK lasts one year longer; that is, a normal graduate of an AHS with a vocational college plus three years as an economic loyalty professional candidate is just as fast. And there is one point to this, and I would like to stress it at this point: We demand five years of independent activity. This is something different than being employed somewhere and working under guidance and supervision. That's really something else! We have already differentiated this earlier in the auditor's power, for example, that one with independent tax advisors could be faster than usual. Therefore, I would like to express your agreement once again: It is not an improper arrangement, it is a salomonic solution! Very briefly to the second point: We also have the best dental technicians in Europe through the good training in Austria, I say. Our dental technician masters can really do something that we are now trying to bring to the patient: This is what we do with this regulation, so that they can adapt the tooth replacement in the mouth directly to the patient – that is difficult enough – and cut off the procedure because the dentist does not always have to try it, send it in and wait for it to come back. That's a good regulation. It also opens the way for us to make the skills we have in a profession, namely our dental technicians, directly accessible to the patient, and I am pleased that we have succeeded in making this regulation today. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e22790	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Widmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e22811	Mr President. High house! A number of pros and cons of the present draft have already been discussed: Training times, where one almost benefits from being a balance sheet holder and having almost the same rights as a tax advisor or trader. It was also discussed the transfer from KWT to the Chamber of Commerce, with all the advantages and disadvantages for the account holders et cetera. But one has not yet been discussed, and I say quite consciously: The puss continues today. After this scrapping package, the coup continues in the form of an initiative proposal – that is the point: in the form of an initiative proposal from SPÖ and ÖVP – without hearing, without hearing the experts, without hearing the interested parties. And you get rid of saying, Well, in advance, the opposition parties were involved anyway, and they were allowed to talk a little bit. – That’s right, in the last two years, there may have been three talks with the economic spokesmen of the opposition parties, but there has not been any discussions with the sections, with the stakeholders we would have called for massively. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] Then I ask myself, Mr Matznetter: Why the hurry? Why the hurry in this husk-fuch-law? – I just don't understand, because we don't have any hurry at all. That is why we also requested from the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy that we make a hearing a day before the draft SPÖ-ÖVP-Hush-Push-Law. This was rejected; for me the FPÖ was quite surprising. I do not quite understand why you were not in favour of a committee hearing with those concerned, but it will have its reasons. The thing with the dental technicians that you bring this profession back to a safe shore, I certainly support: That was always our intention. However, you have to look at the whole, because one thing is clear: This is about quality, it's about safety, and it's also about performance, training being worth something. I'll take it to the point: A nurse in the hospital will also not be allowed to perform an operation the next day because she has not been trained for it. The basic principle of the tax advisor and the economic loyalty is tax advice, company law and tax law. The account holder can make the employee's accounts from me – we have already asked for that, that makes sense – he can make the balance sheet, he can make bookings. But he cannot provide tax advice, and he cannot, I say, represent companies in court or before financial authorities. In our opinion, this is not acceptable. Then it gets even thicker: We were in the Economic Committee, we also criticized this, and then Mr Matznetter and Mr Steindl will come back – and this will support the Husch-Fuch – with a four-page amendment request. Four hours before! Mr Matznetter, this is exactly the same discussion that we had first of all on the stabilisation package, the so-called scrapping package. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] So here you come, no one knows what you're going to do, you're gonna pack a little something in, and Parliament is supposed to do that for the government. You're a Member, you're not a government representative! This is the point you have to address at this point. Therefore, in the end, we demand – and this will probably be the case if you do not want to be blamed for the fact that Husch-Fuch is happening here – a referral back to committee to this act – three laws are concerned. In this context, experts will be able to discuss with the parties concerned and to advise them accordingly. Everything else – and I say that quite clearly towards the government – is Husch-Puff of ÖVP and SPÖ!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e22886	President. — The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e22908	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! As already mentioned, we are dealing with an initiative proposal. In this context, Mr Widmann has just put it this way: This is all more or less from one day to another – one kind of snapshot – without contact with the respective groups and somehow done. To this end, I can tell you: It is a difficult matter when it comes to vocational questions and vocational demarcation issues, a matter that I already have been accompanied by my entire working life. I see some of the others sitting in there who know this the same way. Therefore: If you want to regulate the rights that are to be regulated in the area, this is always linked to quality issues and to long-lastingness. If the President of the Economic Trustees and others is sitting above, I must say in this context that there have been intensive discussions in our office for several weeks, not only talks, but also the attempt to re-roll them again and again, even with the involvement of professional organisations. I can remember – at the time it was also Colleague Matznetter and I –: When it came to finding a regulation for the commercial accountants in the triangle of economic loyalty law and on the other hand, accounting and commercial regulation, this was only done on the basis of an initiative proposal. In the final effect we realized one thing: It was actually the usual practice, which has already taken place anyway, and it has just been legalized. Similar things are now available again, the contents have already been addressed. It was a lengthy but, in my opinion, a reasonable compromise, both in terms of an activity and in terms of dental technicians, because there too – I know the past too – is already exactly what has happened, then again what we are regulating. That's why, ladies and gentlemen: Believe me, I am very happy about this - also as a professionally competent body as far as the ministry is concerned - that this regulation is now in place! It is a compromise which is still not the end of the flag rod for all parties involved. But exactly there is also the value of the measure. I can recall how we decided on another matter, namely the rights of agents and the agents in the insurance sector, in Parliament, and afterwards some of them served us in the cafeteria, so to speak, a bottle of wine. I knew there was something wrong with weighting. Today no one will be able to celebrate anything, and that is exactly the right thing, because both parts actually get right and not reached 100 percent. That is why I am in favour of the compromise and would like to express my express thanks to Conny Steindl and Christoph Matznetter, who have been the leader here in trying to fully involve the other parties and all the organisations involved anyway. I believe that we can say with fug and right that this law will in particular benefit one, and that is the consumer. This benefits in Both areas without restricting other rights in such a way that existences are threatened or even destroyed. That is why I believe we can all stand on this compromise, and it will bring us forward!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e22956	Next speaker: Mr Haubner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e22977	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr. Minister! Mr Hübner. [[towards gallery]] Dear Mr. Bundesinnungsmeister Koffu! Welcome to the High House! I also believe that we are concluding an important chapter with this compromise today, which is a chapter of years of negotiations. Mr Widmann, I have a little to say about this relationship: We've been negotiating there. You haven't been to this high house yet. [[Abg. May. Widmann: Yes! Every year again!]] It wasn't possible because you weren't there in 2006, 2007. We went a long way, and Konrad Steindlund Christoph Matznetter treated the whole matter very carefully. Only once – and there you have to take the opposition a bit with responsibility – you have to make decisions as well. I think we have now made the right decision. Mr Mitterlehner has already mentioned it: It is a compromise with which both sides can live and in which there is not a winner on both sides, but two winners. I think this is also very important for entrepreneurs in Austria. It is so – especially in this matter –: We have excellent, excellent economic fidelity. We have excellent balance sheets in Austria, we have a high quality in this area. I hope that everyone will now share this compromise together. In this respect, of course, we too will fully agree with this area. Secondly, I am also pleased that a solution is found in the dental technicians after a long start, with which both dentists and dental technicians have a positive future, even if one or another may have a different view of things. I am convinced that we have also taken the right course with this compromise. Ladies and gentlemen! Generally speaking, it is an important measure for the economic location of Austria, for entrepreneurs, but of course also for patients. I think it is very important for dental technicians, who really enjoy a unique reputation in Europe – just like dentists – that we focus on patient interest as well. So it's a good day for the patients and for the clients in Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e23021	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Karlsböck. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e23042	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen in the House! Health policy is a cross-sectional matter, we know that. That is why we are discussing today a health-politically important matter – we had the preliminary meeting in the Economic Committee – here in an economic-political discussion where I believe it does not belong. I will also tell you why I think so, Minister. In the discussion on health policy agendas, we are constantly discussing these issues of demarcation. In this particular case, the demarcation of dental technicians and dentists is not so much about the obvious fact that dental technicians can now work in their mouths, but about much more. In the end, all medical professionals are concerned with this issue of demarcation. That is, we look at the ophthalmologists, we look at the dentists, we look at the ENT doctors: Do we want - and this discussion must be held à la longue - one, as we want to call it, medical light training, where then the competences are stored over it? In the very specific case, it is about addressing health policy issues in a political manner and answering economic policy issues, because you cannot solve health issues with a policy logic. It turns out it doesn't work. We all know the discussion about health reform. In the specific case of dental technicians, I cannot quite understand the joy you show here. I'm speaking for the dental technicians now. We have also amended a law several times here, apart from the fact that we have now incorporated a law into the economic loyalty law, the Accounting Act and the Commercial Code. They are talking about upgrading, highly valued dental engineering, but that is not the case, because then you would not put it into such a law in which we have three materials to vote together. We from the Freedom Party will agree to this dental engineering law, it is only unfortunately slipped into this completely murkiest other matter. That is why it will be difficult to give an agreement at the third reading. For the dental technicians it is no improvement! I'll tell you now why it's no improvement. If you read through the text of the law, you can find that dental technicians can occasionally work in the mouth on behalf of the dentist in the ordination of the responsible dentist – perhaps, possibly – and I tell you that the consequence will be: You have to do it! That is, the bad situation will be that the dental technician has up to now been able to distinguish himself from actually having to perform these works in a dental ordination, because it was simply forbidden. Now it is allowed, and I say to you, that there will be a deterioration of the dental technician here, because the dental technicians are then more or less kindly asked to carry out this at the same salary. The second danger I see here for the dental technicians is that large chains will also accept this problem. That is to say, there will be a ruinous displacement competition. Whether this is also in the sense of the individual dental technician, I dare doubt. But this is one thing that dental technicians must make up in their community of interests. I'm just saying, Just as the law is now in place – obviously there has also been an opposition from the Ministry of Health, and changes have been made – I can of course live very well with it as a dentist, and I welcome it exceptionally. As a dental technician, I wouldn't wish for this law. But, as has been said, we will agree to this whole convolution of the dental engineering amendment law at the second reading.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e23106	Next speaker: Mrs Hakel. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e23129	Mr President. Dear gentlemen of the Federal Government! Not only did Mr Matznetter become annoyed at the e-mail flow that we were being attacked by the Committee on Economic Affairs, but many others of us, too. Above all, when I looked through the Internet forums of the account holders today and saw what comments were made there, you're wondering why you're even making the effort to negotiate and try to change them. However, since the SPÖ is convinced that it is necessary to adapt and amend existing requirements and powers of various professional groups to the requirements of our time, we welcome this request for several reasons. We've heard them several times, I'd like to repeat them anyway. The change means a de-bureaucratisation for the professional image of the accountants and for the customers. The Minister has already mentioned it today: The consumer should benefit from this in the final effect. For women's career opportunities too, this change in law has a pleasant, positive side effect, as the majority of balance sheet owners in Austria are female. The extension of the rights of this professional group therefore offers women, in particular, the opportunity to move forward. Of course, the upgrading of the rights of different professional groups – especially those of self-employed people – is not necessarily a woman-promoting measure, but in this case it is a small step in the right direction. Don't worry, no one's equal to balance sheet holder after a HAK closure! The training as the accountant and the accountant is a very comprehensive and lengthy one, it ends with a strict audit before the Joint Committee on Accounting Professions. In addition, the balance sheet accountants are subject to a training obligation, which is also reviewed by the Commission. This is quite acceptable and well-founded training, which will be confirmed by everyone here and will not dispute anyone. Since the entry into force of the Accounting Act 2007, account holders have been good partners for small and medium-sized enterprises. They help to create order in accounting, and support this by continuous and accurate testing. They have been doing this very successfully for years, and therefore it has long been time to carry out the increase in the balance sheet limit up to the level of small corporations and also to give them the right to carry out the declaration on employee charges. Nevertheless – once again – a few accountants may not go far enough to change the law. That is why I would like to draw your attention to one thing and say: In order to obtain all the rights of a tax advisor, a tax advisory check is still necessary.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e23175	Next speaker: Mr Obernosterer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e23197	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I think we have heard from all directions, from all political groups, the fore and against this change in trade regulations. As with any change in the law or in the trade order, I think it is important to look at it – as it is today at this point – that the quality of the individual profession is guaranteed, but that it simply improves in the final effect for the consumer. When Mr Widmann spoke about a Husch-Pufsch action, I really can't help it because I was involved in this matter especially with the dental technicians. Just three years ago, a finished text was located on the table, and unfortunately he was not brought in. As I said, he doesn't look much different today. According to my knowledge, both points have been working on achieving a uniform denominator for six years. There is no loser today, but there is no winner either. Every change – we know – is a problem when it comes to liberalising the trade sector. I now call you the example of the trade change in gastronomy: Ten years ago, we discussed whether it is possible for a hairdresser, while waiting for the customer, to make a coffee or to administer a glass of wine. At the time, I was responsible for the division in the Chamber of Commerce in Carinthia, and as a new arrival in this matter, I didn't fully understand how difficult it was to release that a hairdresser can also give a coffee when the customer is waiting, give a glass of sect, or that the host can sell a postcard and not need the trade there. There have been these changes everywhere, there has been this liberalisation. There have been arguments everywhere that we are breaking down the profession. But what did it bring? – The consumer was more satisfied, and none of these individual professional groups basically had to doubt the existence. As has been said, this compromise is on the table today and is decided by the majority of the government parties. Everything was actually said about that. Thank God this topic is first of all from the table, because I am sure that in a few years, when we talk about the same subject, we will make it a little more liberal. The balance between trade, freelances and academics is not easy, but our task is to make customer-friendly. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e23239	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Kuzdas. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e23260	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Karlsböck, we already agree that the dental technician is a teaching profession and there is also a master's examination that, of course, the trade regulation is the corresponding law and thus the competence of the Minister of Economic Affairs is given. Today's innovation in the industrial system has brought about an increase in the powers of dental technicians. In particular, persons who have successfully completed the dental master's examination shall be entitled, in the individual case and on behalf of the dentist, to perform in the context of the production, repair or integration of a removable tooth replacement forms, necessary bisects in the patient's mouth and to perform the necessary adaptation and adaptation work on this tooth replacement. These works shall be carried out in the ordination of the responsible dentist. This change is an extension of the powers for dental technicians, for so far the dentist had a monopoly on the mouth of man. There has been and exists since Jah- to increase the powers of dental technicians in relation to treatment activities related to prosthetic measures. So far, the dentists were against it. The dental technicians wanted this. I'm allowed to quote the national innkeepers of the Lower Austrian dental technicians, Mr. Kwasny, who says: “I have always been a supporter of the strict separation of powers. But the needs have changed. Help from the dental technician directly on the patient is increasingly required by dentists. The positioning of dental technicians is therefore of the opinion that the legal conditions of reality should be adapted ().’ That is exactly what we are doing with the novelle to be decided today. As Mr Steindl has already pointed out, legal certainty will be established in order not to be lost by any infringement of laws. On the other hand, it also aims to ensure that prostheses are better sat and well served for the patient. Shorter waiting times, lower costs, better adaptation by the technician on site: The benefits are therefore entirely on the patient's side. I would therefore ask that this request be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e23309	No one is reporting on this. I therefore conclude the debate. We come to the votes. Firstly, we shall proceed to the vote on the request by the honourable Member. Widmann, the draft federal law, which amends the law on economic loyalty, the Accounting Act and the Commercial Code in 1994, in 1713 the Supplements to the Committee on Economic and Industrial Affairs. I ask those members of the House who are for referral back to the House for a corresponding sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. As foreseen in the agenda, we shall now proceed to the vote on the draft law in 1713 of the Supplements. Mr Themessl has called for a separate vote. I shall now proceed to the separate vote on a point of order. 3 of the draft as amended by the Committee's report. I would like to ask those Members who support this provision to have a similar sign. – This is accepted by a majority. I now come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft and the title and receipt of the Committee's report. If you agree, I ask for a sign on this. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall come to the third reading. If you are also in third reading for this draft, I would like to ask you for a sign of approval. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[17:43:27]] 6. Point Report of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on the Government template (1687, e.g._Other Organiser Bundesgesetz, with which an accreditation law 2012 is passed and the law of measurement and eich and the boiler law amended (1712 d.b.) 7. Point Report of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on the Government template (1686, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law amending the Survey Act (1714 d.b.) 8. Point Report of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on the Government template (1635, e.g._Other Organiser Free trade agreements between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Korea, of the other part (1715, e.g.)
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e23416	We now come to points 6 to 8 of the agenda, on which the debate is being held under one. We are going into the debate. Mr Dipl.-Ing. Deimek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e23443	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Some of the laws that this debate is about are quite positive, and we will agree with them. However, I would like to focus on the survey law, because this new law, which is on and on itself good, has some small hooks that I would like to deal with in detail. Name: The definition of the limit values or, more specifically, the definition of the plots into the new land database should then be made known in the “Amtsblatt für die Besietungswesen” (Amtsblatt). That is, exactly in this specialist body, the change is apparent. There can then be any changes in the event of an emergency for six months, and then the law comes into force. So: Now I just imagine, somewhere in St. Martin, in Rohrbach or elsewhere in the Mühlviertel, we have communities with public assets that concern the whole. There we may have a farmer who has had a land division that concerns this. I do not assume that the “Official Journal for the Measurement” belongs to the daily literature of the persons concerned at the office or the respective farmer. If it doesn't belong to his daily literature, then he probably has a bit of a problem. The government parties have now tabled an amendment to the Committee. It states that, for example, shortened writing methods of the cities and municipalities may be used. Well, that's kind of nice, making it a little easier for the cities and communities. But the cities and communities can still not say – or can they do it by themselves, but who will? – that they inform the property owners. For themselves, where they themselves are the owner of the public good, it still has a disadvantage. As long as this is not effectively erased, I think we should go to another type of publication, because the “Office’s Journal for Surveying” is now a specialist reading. I assume that for one or two people this is quite a daily reading, but not for everyone else. Federal Minister! Please also help the others to become active here! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e23480	Mr Glaser. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e23501	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) On these points, I would like to deal exclusively with the survey law, and my colleague Lettenbichler will talk about the other points. Even if the Survey Act does not contain any serious changes, there are some changes in it that can affect many citizens. In fact, today's law's novels are based on a fundamental book novel from 2008 and a few clarifications need to be made. These are clarifications on land associations or border negotiations. One of the wishes was, among other things, that procedures should be shortened. This is to be achieved by being the last instance in such cases by the Federal Office for Eich- und Vereistungswesen. Mr Deimek has already pointed out that there are clearer rules in addressing them in order to avoid mis-delivery. Now, the important point that Mr Deimek has also raised, and which has also provided for discussions in the Committee, was that the new land database has to be used for the definition of land, mainly frontier land. There is fear – and I share this concern in part – that information to citizens may not be 100% sufficient. If you look at this in detail, it is not a really serious thing; but it is a matter of identifying real estates as border land and being registered as such in the new property database, it is nothing more. And it is also a question of whether it is registered as a border disaster property or not. Well, it's right, it's just the statement in the "Official Journal for Surveying" and after six months there would be no more opposition period here. On the subject of information requirements: A understanding of thousands and thousands of people involved would be, I believe, a difficult effort. This would cost many millions and would in my view cause many more anxiety, which is actually not appropriate because the matter is not too big. That is why I think it is right to involve the cities and the municipalities here, that they simply take over a large part of the information work here. This will be done as follows: On the one hand, they will be informed accordingly in the newspapers of the Municipal and Municipal Governments, on the other hand, they will be informed of those communities affected by such changes and will ask them to make them known locally. I assume that the mayors will, in the case of culprits, indicate that there is this definition and that there are opposition possibilities. And what I think is important: How does the citizen come to this information? – There are three possibilities. On the one hand, of course, he can look into the survey office, on the other hand he can look at the website of the Federal Office, on the third – and that is the most important – these lists are also on the municipal offices, and every citizen can check whether the property is registered or not. I believe that this is a practical and sensible process, which is unbureaucratic and reasonable. In this sense, I also ask for your consent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e23557	Next speaker: Mrs. Dr. Lichtenecker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e23578	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We have three legislative proposals under this item on the agenda. First of all, we are dealing with the Accreditation Act 2012, which ultimately concerns the fact that the double level of accreditation, namely at the national and federal level, is lost and concentrated on the federal level. We believe that this is a step forward which will bring about procedural and administrative simplification. Since we also think that high standards are guaranteed in both health and consumer protection, we will also support this bill in this form. To amend the Survey Act. Yes, Mr Glaser, I hear this very well, but how is it ensured that citizens actually receive the information that any changes in their properties have been made? I still consider it difficult in relation to the closeness of the party, and I also believe – just as it has stimulated the congregation and the Bar Association – that it is necessary to find an even more close-to-party procedure. I therefore see this paper with skepticism. Thirdly, Europe and South Korea free trade agreements. At first glance, some of the free trade agreements may seem quite inconceivable, at second glance, and if we look closer at the agreements and the provisions, we see two difficult points here, which I would like to make in this form. The first is that in terms of CO2 emissions from vehicles, South Korea has very strict values and very strict rules, more stringent than in Europe. This free trade agreement endangers the strict standards in South Korea. The second is that the Free Trade Agreement, as it is now present, goes far beyond ACTA and is therefore to be feared of cuts in the freedom of information. These are two areas where we have scepticism, which is why we will not agree to this free trade agreement in this form.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e23618	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Gartlehner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e23640	Mr President. Estimated Minister of State! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I will only speak briefly to the Free Trade Agreement. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenecker: We would like the survey law!]] It is, as it were, the most comprehensive free trade agreement that the European Union and its Member States have ever concluded. [[Abg. Windwood: Explain the measuring law to us!]] I think it's good to get back in touch with the Koreans. There have been Austrian contacts for decades. A pioneer in this field was the long-standing ÖVP Klubobmann Professor Heinrich Neisser, who has been very successful in working on political contacts there for decades. In the last ten years, China has been more interesting to many, but we all know that quality in Korea and Taiwan is a better one and that professional cooperation with them can also take place. We are therefore in favour of this free trade agreement. There are some protected areas, but in total 98.7% of this market will be subject to this agreement in the future. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e23690	Next speaker: Mr Windholz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e23711	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Minister for Economic Affairs! High house! There will be an agreement on agenda items 6 and 8, we cannot support TOP 7. TOP 6 is about the accreditation law, which involves changes to the law of measurement and squirrel and to the boiler law. We see this as a real administrative simplification. There is now no more division between the federal government and countries, but only one accreditation body, and we are of course at our disposal for such administrative simplifications. The Free Trade Agreement with the Republic of Korea concerns economic and trade relations between the European Union and Korea – a major work. We also heard an opinion from the Minister for Economic Affairs in the Committee. In any case, the figures justify this. It is about sustainability in terms of market access for goods, services and investment. It is important to improve this and to strengthen economic cooperation. Especially with the figures you mentioned to us, this is absolutely recognizable. Now I'm coming to the area we're not going to carry. The Survey Act, returning to the 2008 ground book novel, with the project renewal of the land database. In the original template there were also difficulties with the address register. This is now to be described as solved. However, with the electronic definition of basebook data, we really see a vacuum, because the publication in the "Official Journal for Surveying" with a period of opposition of six months – I think that goes completely by the affected population. I assume that no one really reads it. Our solution would have been to inform the affected owners directly. If I recall the speech by ÖVP member Glaser, he gave an adventurous opinion earlier. He meant that if you put it directly, that would trigger unrest. So in the sense of the ÖVP: Better, no one knows, you do it in secret and you don't share it. And if we still hear it, you rely on the communities to make it known locally, then it is somehow a lottery for the affected citizen, for it is no one's obligation. Maybe it does one thing or another, no one is obliged. Ladies and gentlemen, this is too little for us, and therefore we cannot support it from the BZÖ.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e23759	President. — The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e23781	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! As mentioned and mentioned by the speakers, a total of three issues, discussed in detail in several laws, are discussed in the debate and now in the debate. As for the accreditation law, I think there are the least objections. That's a positive matter all around. The main issue is that the current accreditation law is the basis for accreditations in the federal area of conformity assessment bodies such as TÜV, Schweißtechnik Zentralanstalt, Quality Austria – Training, Certification and Assessment GmbH and so on, which carry out conformity assessment tasks according to ÖNORMEN and ISO standards. In total, there are currently 469 conformity assessment bodies in Austria, 127 inspection bodies, 60 of which are certification bodies, 282 testing and calibration bodies. So it's quite precisely regulated. So far, it has been the case that we have actually done this in the national field by the federal states via the Institute of Building Technology, i.e. at a different level. That is, we have an EU contradiction, as we should de facto have only one national accreditation body. We now regulate this and get the corresponding competence coverage clause. More is actually not behind this subject area. I assume that this should only be assessed positively. I haven't heard anything else, either. The Federal Act, which amends the Survey Act, also deals only with the fact that the Austrian Property Database is subject to a comprehensive technical redesign, which is intended to allow access to all relevant documents by the Basic Book Courts and Survey Authorities. ==References== In May 2012, the property database was re-established. With this start-up, a complete transfer of data is carried out by rewriting all plots into the new database. This amendment is therefore necessary, as further legal adjustment and clarification are required for the implementation of the Property Database Project after the 2008 Basic Book Novel. Changes shall be made to the address register recommended by the Court of Auditors and Public Prosecutors. In the case of border disputes, the Court of First Instance shall, in order to speed up proceedings, be reduced from three to two in order to achieve a binding border settlement by the Court of First Instance in the case of a disputed border by a reference to the Court of First Instance. The new regulation on the central prescribing of the measuring fees will simplify administration, as the requirement for the fee automation is supported by the portal of the BEV and no longer by the first instance, namely the survey offices. No change has been made to the previous fees and above all to the height by the novelle. Now I can come back to what has been addressed here, namely the problem raised in the Committee, that no one knows the "Official Journal of Surveying" and that nobody is looking at it – that is probably not the usual reading – and that is why it is perhaps going to pass to many interested parties when they are published there. That is why we have done exactly what has been suggested in the Committee. In the next edition of the Austrian Community Newspaper, the Federal Office for Eich- und Verifyungswesen will inform the new land database in an article about the re-designation of all land of the border disaster. As a result, specific addresses will be given to the cities and communities relating to the catastrophes within their jurisdiction, with the simultaneous request to publish this information and the embodiment from the "Official Journal of Surveying" in their own municipal papers – Official Journal, municipal news and so on – to go to, publish and also to hang out any parish citizen. We then still have commitments from the municipal government and the municipal government, which are still to be detailed, but I can tell you from my point of view that, since everyone reads the local newspaper, I am already assuming that with such information, when it is pointed out and it relates to the immediate vicinity, there is also a discussion of the matter and that what is really being looked at in person and in the near field. Therefore, I assume that this process of this problem, which is also agreed with the municipal and urban government, is done away with. As regards the third area, the Free Trade Agreement, I would say that is an agreement that the EU has negotiated. This agreement with South Korea brings benefits to Austria. In the next few years, it will be several hundred million, exactly 600 million additional benefits for areas which lie in mechanical engineering and so on. Mrs Lichtenecker – which we have already discussed in the Committee – has been particularly attentive to the environmental standards you have addressed. Since this agreement is already in practice, I do not see any negative effects, but, quite the contrary, only positive elements of a really carefully prepared agreement that concerns Austria. I therefore hope for your agreement and the agreement of the other parties. - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e23845	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Lettenbichler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e23866	Mr President. Estimated Minister of State! High house! On the three points discussed, I would like to focus briefly on the accreditation law and the agreement with the Republic of Korea. My colleague Glaser has already mentioned the essentials of the Survey Act, and I would like to underline his statement that in the event of changes in land surveys, the municipalities are to be informed in good time. The Minister has now also mentioned the essentials of the EU regulation and the need for a revision of our accreditation law. In principle, it is about bringing about administrative simplification and red tape. We now want to create a single authority, and it is also about, especially if we have followed today's debate on the consolidation package, namely this red tape reduction, that we are constantly driving forward this administrative simplification. So far – the Minister has also said so – we have had separate regulations in the various federal states. That's history now. The Austrian Institute For construction technology, this has been done so far, now we have a joint institution that will regulate this from a single source. However, it is also important to ensure that applications can be examined and handled quickly. I would like to say to the Free Trade Agreement with the Republic of Korea that this is an important basis for future economic and trade relations. The aim is to improve access to the market for goods, services and investment, as well as to develop economic cooperation. As we already know, this agreement has been implemented for a three-quarters period, which has already led to a remarkable increase in domestic exports to Korea of more than 30 percent in this short period. To this end, it is also necessary to know that Korea was the tenth strongest EU export country in 2010 and still took eighth place in imports. Both points I have described can only lead to one agreement. I can invite you to this and thank you for your attention. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e23915	Next speaker: Mr Kirchgatterer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e23936	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! For apprentices abroad, this is a more than significant area of the report of the Ministry of Economic Affairs, which has been consulted and taken note of in the Committee. These foreign internships for apprentices are supported in addition to the EU programme in Austria. This is very encouraging and shows that our professional research is very important to us that the dual education system is a major concern for us that we are aware that the high quality of Austrian specialised work is crucial for prosperity in our country in the future. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like the Federal Ministry of Economics, but also They call on all of them to make these foreign practices even more known. It does good for apprentices, it does good for businesses, and it shows that we are also engaged in the future accordingly. Ladies and gentlemen! On the last of the three points to be dealt with today, on the free trade agreement between the EU and South Korea, I would like to point out that Austria can show a positive trade balance to the Republic of Korea. Our exports are very encouraging, and I can also repeat the 30 percent mentioned by my previous speaker. It is also a success of the Austrian specialist work, for which it is worth working for young people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e23969	No one is reporting on this. I therefore conclude the debate. We shall come to the votes I shall take separately from each of the Committee's requests. Firstly, we shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 6. This is the draft concerning a federal law that adopts an accreditation law 2012 and amends the law of measurement and eich and the boiler law, including title and receipt in 1687 of the supplements. Since the present draft contains a constitutional provision, I first put it in accordance with § 82 para. 2 C 1 of the Rules of Procedure, the presence of the constitutional number of Members required for the vote. I now ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this draft to give a positive signal. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their agreement to this draft, to a sign on this point. – This was unanimously adopted at third reading. Vote on TOP 7: Draft federal law, which amends the survey law, together with the title and receipt in 1714 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this draft for an acceptable sign. – This is accepted by a majority. If you are also in third reading for this draft, I ask for your consent. - That's the majority. The draft was therefore adopted at third reading. Vote on item 8 of the agenda. First of all, we are voting on the request of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, the conclusion of the State Treaty: Free trade agreements between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Korea, of the other part, in 1635 of the supplements referred to in Article 50(1). 1 Z 1 Federal Constitutional Act to grant approval. If you agree, I'll ask you for your sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request within the meaning of Article 49. 2 B-VG that the Bulgarian, Danish, English, Estonian, Finnish, French, Greek, Italian, Latvian, Lithuanian, Maltese, Polish, Portuguese, Romanian, Swedish, Slovak, Slovenian, Spanish, Czech and Hungarian languages as well as the Korean language version of this State Treaty pursuant to Article 49(1) of the Treaty. 2 BVG must be made known as a public consultation in the Federal Ministry of European and International Affairs. If you stand for it, I ask you for a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. [[18:11:56]] 9. Point Report by the Committee on Tourism on Amendment No 1754/A(E) by Mr Mag. Roman Haider, Heidrun Silhavy, Franz Hörl, Dr. Gabriela Moser, Stefan Markowitz, colleagues on current teaching materials in tourism education (1718 d.b.) 10. Point Report by the Committee on Tourism on the motion for a resolution 1883/A(E) by Mr Gabriel Obernosterer, Mr Heidrun Silhavy, Mr Mag. Roman Haider, Dr. Gabriela Moser, Stefan Markowitz, colleagues on online booking platforms in tourism (1719 d.b.) 11th@item: inlistbox Point Report by the Committee on Tourism on the proposal from Dr Gabriela Moser, Heidrun Silhavy, Franz Hörl, Mag. Roman Haider, Stefan Markowitz, colleagues on enhanced cooperation between the “Austria Guides” and the Austrian Advertising (1720 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e24134	We now come to points 9 to 11 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. We are going into the debate. Mr Obernosterer. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e24164	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! It is now about the three requests, the submissions from the Tourism Committee. As we all know, Austria's trademark is tourism. Austria is known worldwide as a tourist country, and in the economic crisis, it has been shown that tourism has been a stable economic factor and that the difficult time 2008/2009 has also been well penetrated and was able to claim. This importance of the tourism industry, however, must also be said, is reflected here in Parliament. There is hardly any committee where there are five-party requests for unanimity. It is very important – as in other things, of course – to shape the framework conditions for tourism in such a way that we are competitive in the future. I would like to briefly address the three points that we are deciding on today – all three points, as I have said, are five-party requests. The first request concerns training. It is, I believe, important to keep the state of the art of training up-to-date. When we look at these documents, we notice that there are really flaws there and there. Let me give you an example: It cannot be in the present time, where we know what modern communication and the Internet mean, that the fax is given even more space than the Internet training. On the subject of cooperation between the Austrian advertising industry and the travel guide, I do not want to go into more detail, which will certainly be done by Mrs Moser. And the third request concerns the online booking platforms, actually a main area in the present time. We know that in recent years in the tourism sector, prices have been distributed half-way in index. That means we were able to make a slight increase in prices. That's what the market has done. However, we also know that the yield in the tourism industry has fallen in recent years. There are two price drivers there, on the one hand the energy and on the other hand, which is much more scratching, the commissions you have to pay per night. In the tourism industry it used to be such that the beds were built, the guests came and the beds were filled. Today we need sales partners to fill these beds. On average, over 50 percent of all Austrian beds are booked either via tour operators, via direct sales or via booking platforms, which at the same time means that the yield for the so booked beds is 20 percent – I am now talking about an average of 20 percent – It's gone back. The Internet platforms start at around 10 percent commission, which goes up to the direct sales and the tour operator, where you pay up to 35 percent commission. And we couldn't pass that on to the customers, as we said. There have been good approaches in Austria to build Internet booking platforms. However, I also have to say that the tourism industry – I am also a practicing tourist – has to take its own nose and say that it has missed a little bit here, for for example one of the most well-known platforms that have started was Tiscover, at that time advertising from the Tyrol. However, it has then received the order from the companies and also from the public, mainly to be an information platform and not a booking platform, and the booking platforms have become more and more stronger and have now basically suppressed our booking platforms, as they stand in Austria, in which Austria breaks down advertising to the countries, communities and regions, where in the display window is the information about the country, the municipality and the region, and not the offer as the other booking platforms have. We know that Austria's advertising has other tasks to fulfil, that it is not the task of Austria to make a booking platform – even according to the statutes. But the Federal Minister and the Austrian Advertising will deal – of course we will help – that we will come to an Austrian solution that we will not continue to be as dependent on the large booking platforms as we now demand as much as 20 percent. We should be able to build a booking platform, which, as we have said, is in the Austrian hand, where the commissions are at an altitude that we can handle – I now speak of about 5 to 8, a maximum of 10 percent. This would be a great advantage, as has been said, for the hotel industry, whether in the holiday area or in the city area. I thank you all for the cooperation and you, Federal Minister, for the fact that tourism is always a major concern for you – the success is right! - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e24228	Next speaker: Mrs Silhavy. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e24283	Mr President. Minister! High house! My previous speaker has already responded to the three proposals which are being debated here today. But, Mr Obernosterer, there is, of course, one reason why we are usually dealing with applications here: because we are only assigned to and for ourselves the tourism report and are not dealt with in our committee materials of legislation. This is something that one might have to think about for the next legislative period, because it is quite satisfactory, honestly, not. This is also to be said openly, although I too may congratulate the Federal Minister on his efforts to make the Committee meetings very informative. [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. Fürntrath-Moretti.]] [[Abg. Markowitz: Personally present!]] One point I would also like to mention is what information is going on: We have had the rest of the world with us, and the two gentlemen have also given us very good information, but a problem with which the industry continues to struggle is the equity ceiling – this is not a new problem. We must try to get better at this problem. My predecessor has also addressed the Internet, the topics of training and training. We have recently looked at a tourism school in Vienna with a focus on the Internet. The sadness is: You have a great education, but hardly anyone stays in tourism. Ladies and gentlemen, who make five-year training, explain to us that although they see a second stand in tourism – especially for a study, as a very good side-by-side acquisition – they usually start a different study after this training. This brings me back to the idea that we must, and above all, the companies, strive to make tourism and tourism work more attractive. The working hours will not be able to change much, because tourism is taking place in times when other people are free. The collective treaty negotiations are currently taking place, and I was already a little surprised – to be politely formulated – about an e-mail from the ÖHV, which complained that the trade union demanded a minimum wage of € 1 450 for full-time employment. Ladies and gentlemen! You will have to do something with the salaries if you constantly complain that you are looking for professionals in tourism. I would like to give this to all of us along the way.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e24326	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Haider. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e24347	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I am now the third speaker. After two speakers on these three requests, everything has already been said, and there are 17 more speakers. That's why I'm going to be very brief. [[As a result of the accident at the FPÖ as well as in the SPÖ's representatives.]] - Yes, thank you. As the chairman of the Tourism Committee, I am of course particularly pleased if we can always decide on five-party applications together – in this case for the second time in a row three five-party applications. How topical and how important the topics that we are presenting here today is also evidenced by the current discussion. The first request is that teaching materials be kept up-to-date, especially in the field of e-commerce. The second request also shows how current this issue is about the booking platforms. Those who have been following the tourism industry a little bit lately know that this is really a brand-new topic that has developed a monopoly in the booking platforms. The German supplier – and I also call him here by name – has almost created a monopoly. Already in the first hour of the university economy, one learns that monopoly leads to an un optimal resource allocation. This could also be translated into easier German: The price just gets much too high, it just becomes much too expensive. I am really glad that we all agree that the Federal Government should consider measures so that the tourism industry is not exposed to a provider. It must also be said critically that European competition guardians, who everywhere else try to regulate us, have completely failed in this area. I am really glad that we agree here and that we are also closed and united. Mr. Federal Minister, my two previous speakers have congratulated you. You'll forgive me, but I don't give it to you, quite the opposite. [[Call the ÖVP:Well go!]] Finally, I will have to address a subject that has not been discussed today in the debate on the tax package. For tourism, the resolution levy is also counterproductive in its deficient form, as it has been decided today. This € 110, which the entrepreneur will have to pay in the future, when an employment relationship is either due to the time-limit or is dissolved – even if this is only valid for six months – are counterproductive for tourism and, above all, – and this is also the case in your tourism strategy – for the extension of the season. You should have been there, or you'd have been able to think of something better.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e24393	Next speaker: Mrs Dr. Moser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e24414	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We, too, have addressed a current problem with our request – after all, all five parties that supported it. It is understandable that if the Austrian advertising has a particular slogan, the people who come to Austria because of this advertising will be explained on the spot the individual sights – even under the aspect that is being spread on a moderate basis, brought to the people and drummed. That's an obvious thought. To implement this is also our concern. Fortunately, unlike other committees, it is quite good. Mr Minister, that is why, perhaps you have read it yourself, I can quote another very critical commentator from the industry with his opinion on the Tourism Committee. Mr. Günther Greul commented on the tourism policy in “T.A.I.”, in this journal, and said that the Tourism Committee was significantly different from others. I quote: "Among the many parliamentary committees, the Tourism Committee is practically the only one who does not wait for it to be assigned a task by the National Council, but, on its own, becomes active with motions for resolutions." And on top of that: There is an up-to-date situation, and this is “very remarkable for experts in parliamentary practice. ” And: ‘The Tourism Committee brings more than its constitutional position’. – Why don’t we do it in other committees too? Mr Minister, we have other issues that we discuss together with you. Why, for example, did you not lead to an shoulder closure in this very painful thing, in the reduction of the cost of building savings? – It would certainly be representatives of all five parties, both from your party and from the SPÖ as well as from us Greens or from the BZÖ or from the FPÖ. [[Federal Minister Dr. Mitterlehner: I am not in the Financial Committee!]] That's really a curiosum. That is why I say it so that there is a record, it was the midnight hour, and in the debate in the government the question stood in the room: How do we cover a false amount of about the dimension that accounts for half of the construction cost? – According to my information, one has done purely formally according to a criterion, not content – building savings – useful or not? Support – useful or not? Construction economy – useful or not? – no, but you only looked: What's the amount of loss? Where is a similar high budget? Which posts could be used among the similar, where it hurts the least? – This is then budgetary policy purely according to formal criteria. Mr. Tourism Minister – I deliberately say that – I still have another shank from your savings package cordery, which is equally reprehensible. All of this is in the context of the fact that we are doing a very useful and cooperative work in the Tourism Committee, in which we are doing not in formal terms, but in terms of content, for the benefit of the tourism industry. I'm telling you the other thing, so it's not always boring in Parliament. In the savings package, the merger of the Army History Museum with the House, Court and State Archives in the Federal Chancellery is also planned. The Army History Museum is, as it were, also a pilgrimage site for various tourists, it is interesting and educational and didactically often very well prepared what can be seen there. The combination of the house, court and state archives with the military history museum is such a thing of hanebüchen – they have virtually nothing in common, but now they have to be under one roof. Normally, it would be close to joining the house, court and state archives with the National Library or to networking the museums even better with each other. No, that was uninteresting! You take the two for a very simple reason – you have to imagine that! – and this one is that the Federal Chancellery wants to show savings family: Get away with the house, court and state archives, and someone else is supposed to pay the costs! The state defense is anyway somehow everywhere in the use of disasters, now the practically must school the house, court and state archives. That's how it looks, and that's really grotesque! I only mention these great examples, so that you can see once again how sensible it is to do tourism work together in five-party decisions, and that this common, meaningful work would also be located in many other areas of politics – to the all-sided lifting of the image of politics, all of our concerns. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e24451	Next speaker: Mr Markowitz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e24472	Mr President. Minister! High house! The importance of teaching materials in schools and especially in training courses is also seen from the fact that we are a tourist country. What we have always criticized lately is that we have so many open teaching posts, Minister. If we are at the last stage in the field of teaching materials, we will be able to accept more young people. Mr Silhavy mentioned this correctly. I find it sad that we are on the one hand a tourist country where every job seeker has the opportunity to find a job, on the other hand there are breakers, that is, those who attend a tourism school and then choose a completely different profession later on. We really need to consider how we start an image campaign in the future with regard to this problem – I have often said – that we make it clear to young people that a tourism job is a good job, that it is no longer the same as before that one is permanently exploited there, but that there are clear guidelines. Of course, we must also consider the payment in the future. I just don't like the fact that the young people have too few perspectives and also live in the past in this respect, that you don't get along here either. When you look at the naked numbers: In 2010, 12 552 young people were active in the tourism and leisure industry in the youth sector and in the classrooms. That's 11.23 percent of the commercial economy. We should promote that! In textbooks on “Hotel and reception” there is a line over the online operation, Internet et cetera and an entire page about the typewriter. Well, that's what you can only heat in! The cover was from 1995, I looked at it. We really must try to make this more effective! Of course, the application for online platforms is also an important one that we will naturally support. That has already been properly addressed. This is not a monopoly, here it is also about large suppliers buying up small suppliers. [[Abg. May. Josef Auer: Eat!]] - Please? – That’s right, you mean “eating” – or buying up, no matter what. [[Abg. May. Josef Auer: Eat!]] I'll give you all the right. Then we don't have a competition anymore. In this way it happens that we have 25 percent more increases in fees. Therefore, it is only to be supported that there is its own platform in Austria, which is cost-effective. If it is feasible at 8 to 10 percent, everyone has something of it – not only the Austrians who book, but of course also the tourism companies, because the It's going to be very manageable. Our goal can only be that the Austrians and also the foreign guests make more holiday in Austria, that the hotels and the Rooms are booked that we have many employees in tourism, especially many young people. That's what I wish for the future. I would also like to mention one point that is repeatedly mentioned, namely the five-party requests made by the Committee on Tourism, which were jointly drawn up. Hopefully we will do so in the future. We also have a request that has not yet been signed by the ÖVP, and the other parties have indicated that we will finalise it until the next committee. This is about the compatibility of work and family with self-employed and self-employed people in tourism. This is also an important point. I am convinced that we will reach agreement on this by the next committee. Then we can continue to work successfully for Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e24528	Next speaker: Mr. Hörl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e24555	Mr President. High house! Federal Minister! Since we are discussing these applications in detail today, I call a few recent figures on the tourism industry: 44.62 million nights in the months until the end of February, that's a nice number. However, we have not yet been able to pick up this delle, which we have felt a bit in tourism since 2008. I do not think we can speak of a crisis in tourism, because we have had over 180 000 people in these years, we have never come under 180 000. We recorded an employment record of over 200 000 people in tourism in February. We can be proud of this, and this alone shows how important tourism is for our country. We have succeeded in some increases in Switzerland and also in Eastern Europe, and we have lost a lot of things for German guests. So there's a lot of work here. Thanks to the initiative of Austria's advertising on the domestic market, we have also been able to make a lot of advertising and make a bet. Mr Kammer-Obmann Commercial Council Schenner says that under the rule the enterprises are often too few. - That's right. That is why we should not go into this debate. Interfering in contract negotiations. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] – Mrs Klubobmann-Deputy, the collective contractual partners are enough; there is no need for our contribution! Maybe a few more figures on the investment, so that you can also make a bit of advertising impressive for tourism: 500 million € invested the cable cars last year for snow plants, almost half of the turnover. This is very important for the winter season. That's what you need to know. We have invested €748 million since 2007, i.e. in five years. We are the top riders on the world market with the USA and France. The value added in tourism – and this, of course, also strengthens our Minister of Tourism – when it comes to funding: €5.5 billion. According to the ÖHT estimates, the total investment in tourism is about €880 million. I would also like to thank you, Minister, that the funding for the ÖHT has remained the same. The conveyor pyramid has already shown its first savings. You can see that there's something you've done here – congratulations on it! The increase in energy in the field of tourism also helps us to move on in the energy transition. Mr Minister, thank you very much also for allowing us to re-acquire this 100 million € support for thermal renovation. Here, too, tourism is firmly investing. I think that's also a good contribution. I don't want to mention anything – Markowitz has already said – that we have 12 500 apprentices in education. I would like to thank Mr Haider for showing the topic of training. Of course, it is not possible for the training documents to take too little account of the Internet and the whole area. However, I would also like to break a lance for tourism schools in our country. Where I'm going: state-of-the-art schools! Mrs Silhavy, Zillertal is a great school; Col. Gisela Wurm knows her. 50 percent of all students in the Zillertal who go to secondary school go because there is no gymnasium to attend this school without wanting to work in tourism. Then you can't say that we have such a high drop-out rate. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Josef Auer.]] Of course, it is also desirable that we do something in the area of these booking platforms. Unfortunately, in Austria we have some problems from the sizes of the farm. The average Austrian farm has 40 beds. Marketing is not always easy, and if we can continue there and look at it carefully, then together with the Austrian advertising – thank you very much. Minister for Tourism, all in all thanks for the support – continue that way!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e24629	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Oh, no, no, - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e24650	Mr President. Estimated Minister! That's such a thing with the relationships. Unfortunately, Mr. Hörl, I don't have as much time to talk as you do, I only have 2 minutes. That's why I have to talk relatively quickly and get the whole thing to the point. Therefore, on the booking platforms, I would just like to mention a thought that is simply pressing. If you look in the ranks, the presence of Members does not reflect the importance of the issue either. If you look at how much percentage of booking platforms you get, then the nor what is actually going on. Tourism is taking place on the spot. There is a lot of work, and people are satisfied only if good work is done. If the margins for the farms are getting smaller and smaller, I also think the highest ÖVP representatives are of my opinion that it is, of course, the case that this is continuing. Where will it be saved? – In the case of investments. We have very little financial support for tourism companies, and it will, of course, also be saved for employees. Therefore, when I look at colleagues Bartenstein, one sees that these messages were, at the end of the day, “More Private, Less State”. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] The exaggerated freedom, this “absolute” freedom, leads them to have only some, namely, the stronger. They hit a “packl” like the big platforms. – You shake your head, obviously you didn’t quite understand! Then, at the end of the day, the little ones have to suffer. This, of course, also affects the tourist companies in the Zillertal, colleague Hörl. That's what we're going to have to think about. That is also stated in this proposal. We need fair market rules, we also need restrictions. This will, of course, make the relationship a different one, and we will again have businesses that also deserve the same as they do. We will then also have staff in the hospitality industry, for which it is also worth working there. And we will have more apprentices again, we will have better staff and thus a higher guest satisfaction, because only from the platforms do the businesses not live, but also from the constant guest, and he will only come back constantly if he is satisfied. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Fürntrath-Moretti]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e24707	Next speaker: Mr Linder. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e24729	Mr President. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) A few more ÖVP-Redners – and we have to worry about the health of the Minister: With so much honey around the mouth, it becomes sugary; this danger is really given. The topic of booking platforms: We have an interesting situation in Carinthia, that all the municipalities and regions at Feratel are connected via the Carinthia advertising and we, from the Villach-Faakersee-Ossiachersee region, are the only ones at tiscover, with HRS and booking.com. The fact is that online bookings are enormously fast-paced with us, from €330 000 volume of booking in 2006 to €1.2 million in 2011. Now I am a little unsure whether it is really useful to defend us against and oppose these booking platforms. On the other hand, we know that the next step is ahead of Google's entry into this market and that Google's business practices need to be made as an entrepreneur, and that payments must also be made for the pre-arrangement. We have come to know that there is a legal regime in Germany that prevents and forbids this. Perhaps we should go to the next five-party request in the Tourism Committee and try to ban this by law also in Austria and thus stop the first booking platform from the costs. Thus, we may be able to keep the costs for the farms lower. It would be nice if we could get to the next tourist tour. a joint five-party request on this subject could be made. Maybe we can do it.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e24777	Now, Mr. Federal Minister Dr. Intertwiner's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e24798	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! It has already been very apostrophic in content, and I do not want to roll it out now. On the part of our ministry, we can support all three motions for resolutions, in particular those relating to quality in teaching materials. As far as cooperation on the level Austria Guides and Austria Advertising is concerned, you are also in contact with us, where Austria's advertising doors are open. This has been initiated anyway, and we support it best. As far as the booking platforms are concerned, we see that a little distanced, as it is not the task of the State to organize this form, but to establish fair conditions of competition for all. But we are also cooperating with all the parties involved to have competitive conditions for all companies. Perhaps still to Mrs. Moser. – Mrs Colleague, because you are now addressing the Committee's work and the five-party proposals: I also see this very positive, as it is always a good mood, and not only a good mood is crucial, but also the content. But what you have now brought about in terms of building savings premiums and in particular how you have believed that this has been developed in the rounds of negotiations, that is already quite a big wish or illusion that you are doing. [[Interlocutory calls from Dr. Moser and Rädler]] [[Abg. Windwood: So I believe more of the woman Moser than you!]] This is not the case, of course, and you can discuss this when you bring it to a committee, because it was an art piece as you presented it. That belongs to the Committee on Culture, which was so great, because there were other backgrounds. But it is not the subject of my presentation now, to light that. But now back to the conditions in tourism. – The question of how we are on the go is always asked: good or moderate? I see it very positively, because if you look at the November to February data – which has already been presented in the media – we have an increase of 4.6 percent to 44.6 million nights. As far as the month of February is concerned, we have just been able to pick up the German guests again. It's not like the guests are breaking away. However, we have won others in addition, especially from the Eastern and Central European areas, which are particularly winter sports-finishing. And the domestic market has also increased accordingly. What has been new and not yet presented is also sales development. For the first time since long, where sales have stagnated, we have again had a tendency, i.e. an increase of 5.5 percent in the period addressed, November to February, to € 8.74 billion. This is a real increase by 2.5 percentage points. Now I would not overestimate that as far as the whole year is concerned, but I would point out – because we had the increases in the 2009 and 2010 and 2011 crisis – that we are indeed very good and above the European average. This is certainly a merit of the Committee, but above all a merit of the companies and their employees. The fact that the framework conditions fit in some way is that the tourism industry has invested firmly in all the years and that the new funding pyramid that we have now set up or set up works well, namely the federal government and countries that are also working together well. Therefore, double conductivity is avoided. We have also secured the budget for the next time. And with regard to the “family-friendly tourism companies”, we have found that it is a cross-sectional matter. We have seen this new action exhausted within a few weeks. That means that the offer of opportunities we offer is also welcome. Therefore: There, too, is the focus activity that we have already set in the area of cycling or the Internet. Overall, it should be made clear to you that it is beautiful that tourism is an area that is, in total, very objective, also throughout the work. I believe that this will also help to ensure that this is a stable factor in the country's competitiveness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e24841	Next speaker: Mr Windholz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e24862	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Minister! High house! I would like to address the item on the agenda 11 a little, also from my practice. In the previous year, as mayor of the market town of Bad Deutsch-Altenburg, I had accommodated the Lower Austrian national exhibition with us. There is the largest museum in Austria, the Museum Carnuntinum, and these executives were an essential part of a successful national exhibition with record visits. It was essential that qualification measures were also carried out. These leaders could then also communicate messages that have affected the advertising line as a whole. The issue of sustainability was important and essential for us. The guests took so much they didn't even expect. [[BZÖ and Abg. Wheeler.]] That's probably the most important thing for all the advertising materials that exist, because the result is mouth propaganda: There it is great, there I have been able to experience something! I also voted very positively in terms of sustainability and future successes. This museum area of course does not have it easy, that also concerns all open-air museums. I should therefore like to take this item on the agenda to address the situation of the Stübing Museum in Styria. This open-air museum is one of the ten largest and most impressive open-air museums in Europe. However, you always need secure finances for such a business. ==References====External links== April again, and the secure finances still do not exist, although there were numerous public confessions, especially as regards the Styrian election campaign. As a low-Austrian, I may say: Of course, such a thing would not be possible in Lower Austria, since I am one with Mr Rädler, because the Carnuntum area has received great support, and this ultimately benefits the Federal State of Lower Austria, but also all of Austria. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Wheeler]] The open-air museum can have an own funding of 52 percent, as I know, has a steady increase in the number of visitors. In this context, I should like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] As these three items of the agenda are unanimous in good tradition, I hope that the same fate will come to this motion for a resolution and that it will also be adopted unanimously, then you can really live it. I should like to ask the Minister responsible to make sure as quickly and efficiently as possible. I also share Mr Silhavy's statement, which referred to substantial competence. It would be good if, even if not still in this legislative period, at least from the next one, a positive development took place.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e24945	The motion for a resolution tabled is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e25014	Next speaker: Mr Rädler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e25035	Mr President. Federal Minister! My dear! Ladies and gentlemen! Special thanks, of course, to my previous speakers, who praised the development of tourism in Lower Austria. It is simply like promoting tourism activities across party borders. That's what it's all about. Since I am number nine of 19 speakers and the Federal Minister has already said that the issue is being rolled out, up to the court and state archives from the Member of the Greens, I would like to refer to the essentials, namely what Austria is all about. Austria is a world champion, world champion in the form that we have 35 million guests every year who come to Austria and return again. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grosz.]] – Thank you very much, Mr Grosz – and I hope to go to Styria too. The most important thing we want to do today with this joint motion for a resolution is to be able to counteract these new forms of tourism advertising in the way that we give customers the opportunity not to pay high premiums. 40 million per year flow through online bookings abroad, as these booking platforms are all located in Germany. On the other hand, of course, we also need to ensure that the municipalities, which invest 330 million in the tourism sector every year, namely in infrastructure, which is almost never mentioned that this is one of the most important conditions for tourism, have met the limits of financing. This is what our mayor colleagues know, but all the efforts we are making ultimately benefit from this good tourism development, because in Lower Austria we also have a plus for the German guests who come to us – as one of the few federal states. I cannot be very pleased with this, Mr Silhavy, that we are now focusing on collective treaty negotiations alone on the employment situation in the tourism sector. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] It's like the politicians. You have to enjoy it, because because of the money, I think, no one sits in here with us, but because politics makes you happy. And so it is at the workplace and in the tourist centre: It must be vocation to work on the weekend, to be able to deal with people. And it is not always the payment, it is also access to professional skills and to vocational No, it is not about unpaid work. [[Abg. Silhavy: Unpaid work...!]] I have one of the largest tourism companies in Lower Austria, and we have also recorded plus 35 percent of the nights last year. So I really know what the situation is in the tourism sector. It is quite simple that we have jobs, but the Austrians often do not want to accept them. [[Abg. Work: But why? But hello!]] We work with forces from Hungary who get paid the same as the forces in Austria. So this is already the access to work, whether I want to work on Saturday or whether I want to work on Sunday. So that's where we need to think a little bit. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and BZÖ.]] The summit of the whole discussion was your proposal, Mr Auer. As a mayor colleague, I have a lot of respect, but to talk about nationalization in the tourism sector, so you're really 20 years back.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e25109	Next speaker: Mrs Hakel. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e25131	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Mr Rädler, come Do you really get out of Parliament and talk to people? Do you talk to the people who work in the tourist areas who need to live on it, who do not want to do so out of pure joy? [[Abg. Grosz: Now the hook flies again!]] [[Mr Rädler and Mr Maij-Weggen.]] I don't know, but I had a discussion in Öblarn on the weekend. Öblarn is a small community in the middle of the tourist region Gröbming-Schladming, will be known to you, and the young people there have told me what it is about, they have told me what problems they have, why they cannot accept a teaching in the tourism sector. Not because they would like to make it voluntary and it's a vocation, but they can't live on it, they can't survive, and because working conditions are simply a disaster. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP]] And there will also be no image campaign to help apply for the tourism profession. [[Abg. Markowitz: Why not?]] That takes the right action, and it must finally be done. There is a rethinking, especially in the establishments that train apprentices, because these are the problems: the non-training work, the overtime that is not paid, the night work that must be done by 16-year-olds who have to work longer than 20 o'clock, weekend work, too little holiday, health-threatening activities, low apprenticeship compensation; they cannot live from it. [[Abg. Clickovits: Please go, that's incredible! You have no idea!]] Have you ever talked to the young people about this before? Not likely yet! [[Abg. Hörl: But that's only in Styria!]] – No, not only in Styria, also in Tyrol. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Rädler: Work is a terrible thing for you!]] It's incredible, it's really disappointing, you haven't been concerned at all about what a lesson that means a job in the tourism sector at all.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e25236	Before calling on the next speaker, I would point out that the votes on Agenda items 1 to 3, Stability Act 2012, will take place after these agenda items have been completed. I call Mr Venier. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e25263	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Despite eleven previous speakers, you will find something to talk about, if you want to, that you can't talk about. I am not concerned with talking about anything bad now, but the situation in the local summer tourism must, despite actually positive trend and positive development, be described as improving. If the Minister in the Committee and also here today points out that the numbers of nights in summer are developing well, of course in winter the same way, then I must say: That is true, however, because there is perhaps far too little of the potential we have in particular in summer tourism, especially since structural adjustment is not yet completed at the accommodation facilities in relation to the increase in farm sizes. It is also significant – and we have seen this in the Committee relatively well – that only 4 percent of the federal funding of the Austrian hotel and tourism bank specifically concerns projects in summer tourism. Even if one cannot or does not have to achieve a complete balance, one must also act forward-looking and, in particular, take advantage of the promotions offered and pick them up. With regard to the increasing relevance of summer tourism, there is an opportunity to act safely in the sense of a whole region and also of the location, because the winter season is weather dependent and also very difficult in special regions that are not very preferred by climate. This has been demonstrated several times by the various winters before 2012. In the long term, from our point of view, only through targeted structural policies can we adapt the current low value added of farms in summer regions to the level of winter seasons. On two legs you are known to be better than on one. Due to our natural requirements, we can offer guests a wide range of high-quality alternatives throughout the year. We are not only talking about sports, wellness and health, but of course also about cultural matters. It is important to take these opportunities in the interests of businesses and regions as a whole. And, depending on the state, we know that tourism is not exactly an insignificant job guarantee. Given the global developments in the travel sector – we know that travel destinations are being further developed worldwide and are also greatly improved – a targeted strengthening of the summer regions, in addition to many other measures such as increasing the quality of beds and also the regionalisation and biologisation of the kitchen, remains of great importance. [[President Dr. Graf takes over the chairmanship.]] Ladies and gentlemen, in this sense I am delighted by the constructive and subject-oriented cooperation which has also been carried out at the recent meeting of the Tourism Committee and which has now led to these proposals. I am particularly concerned about maintaining this access as a young representative, who comes out of the economy himself and rejects party-political Hickhack. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e25314	The next speaker on this item is Mrs Fürntrath-Moretti, who has three minutes' speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e25335	Mr President. High house! Mrs Hakel, I have to say, with all due regard to Steirer women: The previous statements were scandalous from my point of view! [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] They are discrediting an entire industry, and I honestly do not think that is all right! I can only say that I have been involving my main income from tourism for over 30 years, I have two companies, I have trained dozen apprentices, and believe me one: I know what's going on! [[Abg. Crochet: The world is turning on!]] [[Abg. Grosz: Mrs. Hakel, have you ever paid a wage before, have you ever paid additional pay?]] But now back to the topic of tourism. – Value added in tourism is €15 billion, which is 5.4% of GDP. Minister Mitterlehner recently presented the latest figures for the winter: In winter tourism we have 4.6 percent more nights, so that from November to February a value added of €11.13 million. Above all, we can see a stronger number of foreign holidaymakers; much more Germans, Dutch and Belgians come to us. But it not only grows winter tourism, but also urban tourism. This shows us that offer and price-performance ratio are still true among our companies in Austria. Austrian tourism has a very high quality, and in order to ensure this high quality, we need a well-trained professional research, we need young people who can be trained into future professionals. We need motivated apprentices and motivated employees. In 2007 we had a peak with about 14,800 apprentices. Since then, there has been a continuous decline. In 2010 there were only more than 12 500 apprentices, but this is not because the young people are being exploited, Mr Markowitz, on the other hand, I am guarding myself. It should be noted that the number of apprentices also falls in other professional sectors. What can we do about the declining number of apprentices? – On the one hand, we have the demographic development, which is also due to this decline, and on the other hand, the different professional groups are more than ever in competition for dedicated employees, but on the other hand we also need the best possible training for our youth, and the best possible training is also the training content. High house! The Internet alone has revolutionized communication worldwide and, of course, tourism. The Falkensteiner Group commissioned a study in 2010 which ended with the following very exciting result: Oldly proven booking channels are losing in importance, around 60 percent start their holiday search with Google, more than 70 percent visit the hotel website during holiday planning, and 30 percent use rating sports, which, by the way, are becoming more and more important for businesses. Over 50 percent are influenced by customer reviews in their decision. First you pay attention to the total amount of a hotel and only then the rate of recommendation. In summary, it is to be said: The importance of the Internet for tourism is increasing. We must, of course, take this importance into account in training, and so do we. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e25410	Next speaker: Mr Hell. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e25431	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I also wanted to talk about the positive dialogue of the Tourism Committee. With the last speeches, I was no longer quite sure whether there was really this positive dialogue, but in principle we have a basis for discussion in the Tourism Committee, which also leads to the implementation of many common applications for tourism. I can mention positively – and for this I thank the Federal Minister; in the course of the last tourism committee meetings I have researched on the Internet – that the home page of the Ministry of Economic Affairs offers a lot of information. My respect, this homepage is really up-to-date. You will find very much content and – especially for us as the responsible person here in this House – the current figures and developments in tourism. Tourism has a strong economic, employment and social importance for Austria. Many figures and facts have already been mentioned here today, alone, a number has not yet been mentioned: Travel income 2010 from the tourism sector is € 21.9 billion. This shows how important economic power is in this area too. We therefore need to create appropriate framework conditions to ensure that tourism remains competitive in Austria and can also be further developed in a sustainable manner. I would like to mention, on the request concerning “Austria Guides” – which is now also on the debate – that the members of this professional group, which is an independent professional group that accompanies many guests in Austria, are excellent experts in history, culture, nature and the landscape in our country. They also take on the task of reporting on social development in our country and the way in which our people live. In this sense, I also very much welcome cooperation with Austria's advertising. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e25467	Next speaker: Mr Riemer. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e25489	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! I think the discussion has shown that tourism does not necessarily have to be bad, but there are problems when so many apprentices start and so few are going through the training. Of course, this – I can only speak for small-structured businesses in the South Styria region – has to do with payment, of course, it has to do with leisure time. Even highly motivated people wander sometime and go to the next factory, where they earn as much money, even more money and have a regulated working time. This is not the issue, but we need to deal with it in order to see the problem too. Education institutions are, of course, necessary, especially in tourism. Despite all satisfaction, even if the future only comes at a speed of 24 hours a day, nevertheless: As long as technical development progresses, we will sleep every night with innovations that have not yet occurred in the morning when we get up. This means for us, especially in tourism, you always have to think ahead, and especially the tourism schools and educational institutions are, of course, banner bearers of the fact that you observe the market, that you are predictive that you realize the trends in good time that you give this to young people automatically. Let us be glad that there are these schools, but in the area of websites et cetera, whether you can control this market emotionally via a homepage, it is a gentle tourism, adventure tourism, because the young people, as I believe, can do a lot of things and develop our country, and that is what it is all about. Austria is not only a country of tourism, it is also a country of culture. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That's what I'm on the next subject. The cultural landscape also includes the farmers. Tourism would have to think about whether it might give the farmers something, because they care to preserve the cultural landscape. Next point: Austria Advertising and “Austria Guides”. - A good thing. Everything that results in synergies is always to be welcomed, but something must not happen: that advertising from our regional circumstances makes a stew. Austria has a different personality in many different areas. But not only does advertising belong to this topic, it does not only belong to the region, but also to the museums and the buildings. In this context, I would like to thank the BZÖ for its initiative – I too now spare myself reading the text – because the open-air museum Stübing is a weakening wound. To this end, we make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] It is a small European, largely self-financing, please, we help! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e25570	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e25637	Next speaker: Madam President, I should like to thank you for your support. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e25659	Mr President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) These three applications are, however, one of the rather rare applications which are important and desirable both for the economy, i.e. tourism companies, on the one hand, and for consumers on the other. ==References== I would like to limit myself to the point of view of consumers on this item on the agenda, which is a matter decided unanimously. We've heard more often: About 80 percent of travellers get information about destinations, accommodation opportunities, flights et cetera from the network, and for about 60 percent, this information is also a very important decision-making aid. Every third winter trip is already booked over the Internet, and the trend is strongly rising. The guests also consider the guest reviews that can be found on the online platforms to be particularly important. From the point of view of a more than 50-year-old, I find the following number from Germany also very noteworthy: The largest proportion of bookers over the Internet are now the 30-64-year-olds, not only because they have the financial possibilities to travel but also because they value the Internet as a fast and site-independent information medium. What do consumers expect? – They expect serious information, they expect up-to-date information, they expect comprehensive information and, of course, a professional handling of the booking when booking. However, this requires a sufficiently well-founded knowledge of the new media, knowledge that has not yet been illustrated in the current curriculums. Therefore, the approach to rework the teaching materials is correct and important. However, it will also be important to invest even more in the training opportunities of older, not so-called IT-affinated employees. The second request concerns the online platforms that already play an almost as big a role throughout the booking area as travel agencies. However, the increasing concentration of the major international platforms, which is already almost heading towards a monopoly, is a possible restriction not only for the tourism industry itself, but also for travellers. Aid could provide increased efforts by national providers, for example, who cannot be found in the search for a hotel for long periods of time, which is still more often the case at present. The third request, which deals with the increased cooperation of “Austria Guides” and Austria, is in the interests of consumers and should be a matter of course in the sense of Austria’s tourism location. Travelers who visit Austria, who want to meet Austria, who want to know something about our country, are rightly waiting for consistent statements of advertising and the local representatives. In summary, you can say: On the one hand, there are three applications available to help travellers and on the other hand to further improve the tourist location of Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e25707	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Lohfeyer. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e25728	Mr President. Minister! High house! In my region, Salzburger Berggsgauen, tourism is an extremely important economic factor. Very many jobs are directly or indirectly dependent on them. The good snow situation in this winter has also brought very good results to our region. People still like to travel, even in spite of the crisis. Our leisure and tourism landscape in Austria is characterized by very well-trained professionals. We are world champions, and our tourism schools also have a very good reputation internationally. Nevertheless, I believe that the current application concerning the Internet and IT skills in today's training has its full right. All school and university graduates need increasingly important basic IT skills for an increasingly digitalised economy. However, I also believe that there is a need to put the same emphasis on general education. I consider the knowledge of other cultures, languages, personality formation to be equally important. That is to say, there is a need for a differentiated, high level offer also in the tourist training sector, because the industry needs trained young people who do not resign from problems and are also willing to take responsibility. In addition to the existing diversity and the development potential of our vocational schools, it is also important to respect and acknowledge the employees of the tourism industry in the form of fair labour and income-related services. The Commission's proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of We stand for sustainable framework conditions in the field of leisure and tourism, because only employees who find the corresponding remuneration, appropriate working conditions and the necessary respect are also motivated employees in the long term and ultimately a profit in several ways.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e25768	Next speaker: Mr Mayer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e25789	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to point out the good cooperation in the Committee on Tourism, because the results we have achieved are not taken for granted. Despite everything – and that is also said – and it would also be good if we could have a little more debate in the Committee – there are, of course, different opinions in all unanimity. However, it is very important and very good that the Members of Hakel and Silhavy also pointed out the professional situation of apprentices and workers in the tourism industry, to the importance of taking these aspects into account. I can only say that businesses that pay well also have good people. On the other hand, this also applies. I also know very weak tourism companies that pay badly and are accordingly poorly equipped with personnel. It's very much related, we all know. The second area I would like to stress is what Mr Silhavy said about tourism schools. We have dealt very impressively with tourism in a two-day clause of our Tourism Committee – organized by our tourism spokesperson Silhavy together with Mr Kracher – and I believe that this is also the reason why so many of our group are talking about it. One very important aspect for us, when you come to the school and become more educational materials, is that you try to provide contemporary, new teaching materials. The second area is – and I am pleased that the Minister has already set a course where she is responsible – that the countries are also invited to do so, namely in teacher training and teacher training. If, in part, teachers are active using the materials and documents they used 20 years ago, you should not be surprised if the students learn nothing else. It is therefore a very important aspect to include, in addition to the teaching materials, the enhanced and improved training of our teachers in the tourism schools. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e25826	As the last speaker on this item on the agenda, Mr Preiner spoke at 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e25848	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. Tourism in Austria is certainly not a placebo, but – quite the contrary! – it is very real and a lighthouse in our national economy. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I was able to convince myself of that last week. We do not rest on the laurels in the tourism sector, but try to permanently improve us. Only last week did I attend a tourism school in Vienna – colleague Elmar Mayer has already mentioned it – and I can say that modern teaching and learning methods, teaching materials, but also the Internet, PC and so on are directly involved in teaching. The tourism schools in Austria, as we know, also form professionals, managers who find employment not only in local tourism companies, but also very often in internationally known, very high-quality tourism companies and serve as ambassadors of Austria. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that the three motions for resolutions before us are correct in the sense of the future development of our tourism. I therefore very much support them personally. Of course, a advertising drop is that payments in tourism, as far as employees are concerned, are not yet adequate. In this area, I think there is still a need for action. I hope that an improvement will be made here in the near future. Ladies and gentlemen, every fourth booking in tourism is already made online. We therefore also have the obligation to ensure fair competition conditions, online bookings not only in the four- and five-star category, but also in the other categories. The fact that tourism has developed very positively in recent months, I will give you a number of things: From November 2011 to February 2012, we had a staggering increase of 4.5 percent in Burgenland. I am convinced that we will achieve the goal of exceeding the 3-million sound limit in the excesses not only in 2013 but already in 2012. Thank you for listening, Minister. I think you will also follow your words and use these three motions for resolutions in Bälden.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e25908	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur or one of the rapporteur wish to have a final word? - That's not the case. We shall proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 9: Proposal for a resolution annexed to the Committee's report 1718 on current educational materials in tourism training. I'm looking for the Ladies and gentlemen, who are in favour of this, to give a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. (E 233.) We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 10: Proposal for a resolution relating to online booking platforms in tourism annexed to the Committee's report 1719. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to be a sign of approval. – This too is unanimously adopted. (E 234.) We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 11: Proposal for a European Parliament and Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to turnover taxes. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to be a sign of approval. – This too is unanimously adopted. (E 235.) We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Grosz, ladies and gentlemen, on ensuring the promotion of the museum of open air, Stubing – Stübing, apologise. [[Call:]] I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Riemer, colleagues, on the promotion or long-term financing of the Stübing Museum. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – That too is the minority. The application is rejected. [[19:22:32]] Vote on agenda items 1 to 3
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e25978	We shall now proceed to the vote on Agenda items 1 to 3. First of all, we must vote on the motions for a reluctance. With regard to the draft law in 1707 of the Supplements, which is item 1 of the agenda, there is a request for a postponement by the Scheibner Member. We shall now proceed to the vote on this request for a postponement. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign. – This is the minority. The request for a postponement is rejected. With regard to the draft law in 1708 of the Supplements, which is item 2 of the agenda, there is also a request for a postponement by Mr Scheibner. We shall now proceed to the vote on this request for a postponement. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. Finally, with regard to the draft law in 1681 of the Supplements – which is item 3 – there is another amendment by Mr Scheibner. We shall now proceed to the vote on this request for a postponement. Who is for this, I am looking for a sign. – That too is the minority. The application is rejected. It is now appropriate to vote on the motions for referral. With regard to the draft law in 1707, which is item 1 of the agenda, there is a referral request from Members Scheibner, colleagues and colleagues. I shall immediately vote on the draft. To refer the Stability Act 2012 to the Budget Committee again in 1707 of the Supplements. I am looking for those members of the House who stand up for it to be a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. With regard to the draft law in 1708, which is item 2 of the agenda, there is also a referral request from Members Scheibner, colleagues and colleagues. I should like to put the draft to the vote on the motion for a resolution. To refer the Stability Act 2012 to the Budget Committee again in 1708 of the Supplements. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign. – That too is the minority. The application is rejected. Finally, with regard to the draft law in 1681 of the Supplements – which is item 3 – there is another referral request from Members Scheibner, colleagues and colleagues. I shall immediately vote on the draft law concerning a federal law amending the Federal Finance Act 2012 and the Federal Financial Framework Act 2012 to 2015 and the Federal Financial Framework Act 2013 to 2016 – in 1681 of the Supplements – will again refer it to the Budget Committee. I am looking for a sign for those members of the House who are in favour of it. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. As foreseen in the agenda, we shall now proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals separately. Firstly, we shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 1: Draft concerning 1. Stability Act 2012 in 1707 of the Supplements. The following amendments were also tabled: a motion for an amendment by Mr Krainer, Mr Jakob Auer, and Mr Moser, ladies and gentlemen, tabled an amendment. Mr Strache has a separate vote on Rule. 2 C 20 of the draft law. In addition, there is a desire to vote in favour. First of all, I will vote on the parts concerned by the amendments mentioned or the request for separate and nominal voting, in accordance with the classification of the draft law, and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. We shall be voting on the draft law in 1707. Mr Krainer, Mr Auer, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, have tabled a motion for an amendment which is of a kind. 1 and Art. 2. Paragraphs 4, 30 and 30a of the draft law refer. If you agree to this amendment, I would ask for a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall proceed to a separate vote on the subject. 2 Z 20 § 108 of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. The vote has been taken on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials, the Verification of As this request was made by 20 Members, the vote must be taken. That's why I'm doing this. The ballots to be used are in the drawers of the Members' House and bear the name of the Members and the name "Yes" – these are the grey ballots – or "No" – which are the pink ones. Only those official votes can be used for the vote. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, Members are called upon to put the vote in the votes cast. I'm looking for those Members for a way. 2 Z 20 § 108 of the draft law, as amended by the Committee's report, are voting in favour of throwing “Yes” votes against into the urn. Please be careful to throw only one vote mark. I now ask the author, Mrs Mag. Lohfeyer to start with the name call.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e26194	The vote will end. The officials of the House responsible for this task will now make the number of votes under the supervision of the Correspondents. The meeting will be suspended for a few minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e26232	I would ask the honourable Members to put their seats back, resume the interrupted sitting and announce the outcome of the vote. Members cast: 164; of which ‘Yes’ votes: 99, No votes: 65. Art. 2 Z 20 § 108 of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report is therefore adopted. According to § 66 para. 8 of the Rules of Procedure, the names of the Members shall be included in the Stenographic Protocol, indicating their voting behaviour. This procedure applies to all further national votes of today. Members voted in ‘Yes’: Ablinger, Amon, Aubauer, Auer Jacob, Auer Joseph, Bartenstein, Bayr, Becher, Binder-Maier, Buchmayr; Cap, Csörgits; Donabauer Karl, Donnerbauer Heribert, Transmitter; Eßl; Fazekas, Franz, Fuhrmann, Fürntrath-Moretti; Gahr, Gaßner, Gerstl, Gessl-Ranftl, Glaser, Grillitsch, Großruck; Haberzettl, Hakel Elisabeth, Hakl Karin, Hammer, Haubner Peter, Hechtl, Hell, Höfinger, Hellerer, Hörl, Huainigg; Jarolim; Kaipel, Katzian, Keck, Kirchgatterer, Clickovits, Köfer, Königsberger-Ludwig, Kößl, Krainer, Herbs, Krist, Kuntzl, Kuzdas; Lapp, Lettenbichler, Lipitsch, Lohfeyer, Lopatka, Lueger Angela Maier Johann, Marek, Matznetter, Mayer Elmar, Mayer Peter, Muchitsch, Muttonen; Neugebauer Fritz; Oberhauser, Obernosterer; Pendl, Plessl, Prehauser, Prammer, Praßl, Preiner, Prince; Rädler Johann, Rasinger, Riepl, Rudas; Sacher, Schickhofer, Schittenhelm, Schmielenschlager, Schönegger Bernd, Schönpass Rosemarie, Schopf, Schultes, Silhavy, Singer, Spindelberger, Stauber Peter, Steibl Ridi Maria, Steindl Konrad, Steßl-Mühlbacher; Tamandl; Wenninger, Wittmann Peter, Wöinger, Worm. Members voted with ‘No’: Belakovich-Jenewein, Brosz Dieter; Deimek, Dolinschek, Doppler; Fichtenbauer; Gartelgruber, Glavischnig-Piesczek, Grastaur, Graf, Grosz Gerald; Hackl Heinz-Peter, Hagen, Haider, Haubner Ursula, Herbert Werner, Höbart Christian, Huber Gerhard, Hübner Johannes; Jannach, jury; Karlsböck, Kickl, Kitzmüller, Kogler, Korun, Kunasek; noise, lights, linden, list; Markowitz, Mayerhofer, Moser, Mühlberghuber; Neubauer Werner; Oils; Petzner, fungus, Pirklhuber, Podgorschek; Riemer, Rosary; Treasure, Scheibner, Gift, Schwentner, Stefan, Steinhauser, Strache, Strutz; Tadler Erich, Themessl; Inland waterways; Van der Bellen, Venier, Vilimsky, Vock; Walser, Westenthaler, Widmann Rainer, Windbüchler-Sushill, Windholz; Singer, Zinggl.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e26415	We shall now proceed to the vote on the amendment tabled by Mr Krainer, Mr Jakob Auer, Mr President, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. 2 § 108c and Art. 4 refers. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. Mr Moser, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I have tabled a motion for an amendment. 7 of the draft law. I ask the Ladies and gentlemen, who advocate a sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on these parts of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. I am looking for those members of the House who advocate a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. Finally, Mr Krainer, Mr Auer, Mr President, have tabled a motion for an amendment which is similar to that tabled by Mr Krainer and Mr Auer. 9 and 13 of the draft law. Whoever is here, I ask him for a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law and the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to this sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members Grastaur, colleagues and colleagues on the immediate reduction of the Federal Government. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Podgorschek, colleagues and colleagues on their own banking bankruptcy. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Pilz, ladies and gentlemen, on luxury service bodies. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Dipl.-Ing. Deimek, ladies and gentlemen, on seven-point package for the discharge of drivers. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to give a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Tadler, ladies and gentlemen, on personal dedication to the tax system. The vote has been taken on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials, the Verification of As this request was put to the vote by 20 Members, the vote must be taken. That's why I'm doing this. The procedure is known. I would ask those Members who are in favour of the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Tadler, colleagues, to vote in favour of 'Yes', i.e. the grey ballots, and those who vote against, 'No' vote, these are the pink ones to cast into the urn. I now ask the writing to carry out the name call.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e26590	The vote will end. I am interrupting the vote on the vote.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e26624	I will resume the interrupted sitting and announce the outcome of the vote: Members cast: 165; of which ‘Yes’ votes: 3, ‘No’ votes: 162. [[Calls: Who? & Insert]] This is then to be read in the minutes as just announced. The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Tadler, ladies and gentlemen, is therefore rejected. Members voted in ‘Yes’: Auer Jakob; Donnerbauer Heribert; Gartlehner. Members voted with ‘No’: Ablinger, Amon, Aubauer, Auer Joseph, Bartenstein, Bayr, Becher, Belakovich-Jenewein, Binder-Maier, Brosz Dieter, Buchmayr; Cap, Csörgits; Deimek, Dolinschek, Donabauer Karl, Doppler, Schlag; Eßl; Fazekas, Fichtenbauer, Franz, Fuhrmann, Fürntrath-Moretti; Gahr, Gartelgruber, Gaßner, Gerstl, Gessl-Ranftl, Glaser, Glavischnig-Piesczek, Grastaur, Graf, Grillitsch, Großruckruck, Grosz Gerald; Haberzettl, Hackl Heinz-Peter, Hagen, Haider, Hakel Elisabeth, Hakl Karin, Hammer, Haubner Peter, Haubner Ursula, Hechtl, Hell, Herbert Werner, Höbart Christian, Höfinger, Höllerer, Hörl, Hornek, Huainigg, Huber Gerhard, Hübner Johannes; Ikrath; Jannach, Jarolim, jury; Chapel, Karlsböck, Katzian, Keck, Kickl, Kirchgatterer, Kitzmüller, Slickovits, Köfer, Kogler, Königser-Ludwig, Korun, Kößl, Krainer, Herbs, Krist, Kunasek, Kuntzl, Kuzdas; Lapp, Lausch, Lettenbichler, Linder, Lipitsch, List, Lohfeyer, Lopatka, Lueger Angela; Maier Johann, Marek, Markowitz, Matznetter, Mayer Elmar, Mayer Peter, Mayerhofer, Muchitsch, Mühlberghuber, Muttonen; Neubauer Werner, Neugebauer Fritz; Oberhauser, Obernosterer, Ollinger; Pendl, Petzner, Pilz, Pirklhuber, Plessl, Podgorschek, Prehauser, Prammer, Praßl, Preiner, Prince; Rädler Johann, Rasinger, Riepl, Rosenkranz, Rudas; Sacher, Schatz, Scheibner, Schenk, Schickhofer, Schitzenhelm, Geschlagenschlager, Schönegger Bernd, Schönpass Rosemarie, Schopf, Schultes, Schwentner, Silhavy, Singer, Spindelberger, Stauber Peter, Steibl Ridi Maria, Steindl Konrad, Steinhauser, Steßl-Mühlbacher, Strache, Strutz, Stummvoll; Tadler Erich, Tamandel, Themessl; Inland waterways; Van der Bellen, Venier, Vilimsky, Vock; Walser, Wenninger, Westenthaler, Widmann Rainer, Windbüchler-Souschill, Windholz, Wittmann Peter, Wöginger, Wurm; Zanger, Zinggl.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e26679	We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 2: Draft concerning 2. Stability Act 2012 in 1708 of the Supplements. The following additional or amendments and requests for separate and named votes are available: Amendment or amendment tabled by Mr Krainer, Mr Jakob Auer, colleagues, Amendment tabled by Mr Brosz, colleagues, Amendment tabled by Mrs Ollinger, ladies and gentlemen, Amendment tabled by Mr Glawischnig-Piesczek, colleagues, and a request for a separate vote by Mr Herbert and a vote on it. First of all, I will vote on the parts concerned by the supplementary and amending proposals mentioned and the request for separate voting, following the legislative classification, and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. We shall now proceed to the vote on the amendment tabled by Mr Krainer, Mr Jakob Auer, Mr Auer, on the amendment to the title of the draft law and the table of contents. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give them their approval to give a corresponding sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall also vote on the amendment tabled by Mr Brosz, colleagues on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. 2 Sections 3 and 6. Whoever agrees to this amendment, I would like to ask for a sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on these parts of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. Whoever gives his consent, I ask him for a positive sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We come to the vote on the amendment tabled by Mr Krainer, Mr Jakob Auer, colleagues on the subject of Art. 4 Z 2 and Art. 5, 6, 8 and 9. I would ask those Members of the House who are here to vote for it to be a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall also vote on the amendment tabled by Mr Brosz, colleagues on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. 14 Z 5 and 7. Whoever stands for it, I ask for a sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on these parts of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. Whoever gives his consent, I ask him for a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall also proceed to the vote on the amendment tabled by Mr Krainer, Mr Jakob Auer, colleagues on Art. 30, Art. 31 C 1 and Art. 32 C 1 and 2. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. The honourable Member, Herbert, has a separate vote on the Rule. 37 to 48. There is also an amendment tabled by Mr Krainer, Mr Auer, colleagues, on these parts of the draft law, which contains the following amendments or amendments: Art. 37 Amendment to Z 6 and 17 Art. 37 Removal of Z 7 to 9 and 13, Art. 38 deletion of Z 2, 5 to 7 and 11, Art. 38 Amendment to Z 8 and 12 39, Art. 43 Amendment to Z 6, Art. 44 Amendment to Z 7 and deletion of Art. 44 48. In addition, the vote has been called for. Since the request for a name-named vote was made by 20 Members, the vote must be taken. That's why I'm doing this. The procedure is known. I would ask those Members who vote in favour of Articles 37 to 48, as amended by the Committee's report, taking into account the amendment tabled by Mr Krainer, Mr Jakob Auer, colleagues, Mr President, who voted in favour of the 'Yes' vote, i.e. the grey ballots, and those who voted against, 'No' vote, which are the pink-colored ones. Please be careful to throw only one vote mark. I now ask the writing to carry out the name call.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e26834	The vote will end. For the purpose of counting the votes, I interrupt the sitting.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e26869	I will resume the interrupted sitting and announce the outcome of the vote. Members cast: 167; of which "Yes" votes 103, "No" votes 64. Articles 37 to 48 were therefore adopted as part of the Committee's report, taking into account the amendment tabled by Mr Krainer, Mr Jakob Auer, colleagues. Members voted in ‘Yes’: Ablinger, Amon, Aubauer, Auer Jacob, Auer Joseph, Bartenstein, Bayr, Becher, Binder-Maier, Buchmayr; Cap, Csörgits; Donabauer Karl, Donnerbauer Heribert, Transmitter; Eßl; Fazekas, Franz, Fuhrmann, Fürntrath-Moretti; Gahr, Gartlehner, Gaßner, Gerstl, Gessl-Ranftl, Glaser, Grillitsch, Großruck; Haberzettl, Hakl Elisabeth, Hakl Karin, Hammer, Haubner Peter, Hechtl, Hell, Höfinger, Hellerer, Hörl, Hornek, Huainigg; Ikrath; Jarolim; Kaipel, Katzian, Keck, Kirchgatterer, Clickovits, Köfer, Königsberger-Ludwig, Kößl, Krainer, Herbs, Krist, Kuntzl, Kuzdas; Lapp, Lettenbichler, Lipitsch, Lohfeyer, Lopatka, Lueger Angela; Maier Johann, Marek, Matznetter, Mayer Elmar, Mayer Peter, Muchitsch, Muttonen; Neugebauer Fritz; Oberhauser, Obernosterer; Pendl, Plessl, Prehauser, Prammer, Praßl, Preiner, Prince; Rädler Johann, Rasinger, Riepl, Rudas; Sacher, Schickhofer, Schittenhelm, Schmielenschlager, Schönegger Bernd, Schönpass Rosemarie, Schopf, Schultes, Silhavy, Singer, Spindelberger, Stauber Peter, Steibl Ridi Maria, Steindl Konrad, Steßl-Mühlbacher, Stummvoll; Tamandl; Wenninger, Wittmann Peter, Wöinger, Worm. Members voted with ‘No’: Belakovich-Jenewein, Brosz Dieter; Deimek, Dolinschek, Doppler; Fichtenbauer; Gartelgruber, Glavischnig-Piesczek, Grastaur, Graf, Grosz Gerald; Hackl Heinz-Peter, Hagen, Haider, Haubner Ursula, Herbert Werner, Höbart Christian, Huber Gerhard, Hübner Johannes; Jannach, jury; Karlsböck, Kickl, Kitzmüller, Kogler, Korun, Kunasek; noise, lights, linden, list; Mayerhofer, Moser, Mühlberghuber; Neubauer Werner; Oils; Petzner, fungus, Pirklhuber, Podgorschek; Riemer, Rosary; Treasure, Scheibner, Gift, Schwentner, Stefan, Steinhauser, Strache, Strutz; Tadler Erich, Themessl; Inland waterways; Van der Bellen, Venier, Vilimsky, Vock; Walser, Westenthaler, Widmann Rainer, Windbüchler-Sushill, Windholz; Singer, Zinggl.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e27051	We shall now proceed to the vote on the amendment tabled by Mr Krainer, Mr Jakob Auer, colleagues on Rule 49. Whoever gives his consent, I ask for a corresponding sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall also proceed to the vote on the amendment tabled by Mr Ollinger, colleagues, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats), on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. 49 part 1 deletion of Z 8 and Part 2 deletion of Z 3, 7 and 11. Whoever stands for it, I'm looking for a sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall immediately vote on these parts of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. I would like to ask those Members of the House who have given their approval for a sign on this point. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall come to the vote on the supplementary motion by Mr Krainer, Mr Jakob Auer, colleagues, on the subject of Rule. Part 2 Inserting a new Z 12a. When I agree, I'm looking for an important sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on the amendment tabled by Mrs Oellinger, colleagues, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats), on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. 49 Part 2 Z 13. If you agree to this amendment, I would ask for a sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on these parts of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. I am looking for a sign for those ladies and gentlemen who want to agree to this. – This is the majority and therefore adopted. We shall now proceed to the vote on the amendment tabled by Mr Krainer, Mr Jakob Auer, colleagues on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. 50, introductory phrase. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give him their approval to give a positive sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall also proceed to the vote on the amendment tabled by Mr Ollinger, colleagues, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats), on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. 50 delete Part 1 and Article 50(2) deletion of Z 1. Whoever speaks for it, I ask for a sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on these parts of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. I am seeking a sign from those members of the House who give him their consent. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall vote on the amendment tabled by Mrs Oellinger, colleagues, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats), on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. 50 part 2 deletion of the Z 2. Whoever gives his consent, I ask him for a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on this part of the draft law, taking into account the amendment tabled by Mrs Krainer, Mr Auer, colleagues on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. 50 Part 2 Z 2. I would ask those members of the House who give their consent to it to give a sign in this regard. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on the amendment tabled by Mr Oellinger, colleagues, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats), on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. 50 part 2 deletion of the Z 7. Whoever speaks for it, I'm looking for a sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on this part of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. I would ask those members of the House who give their consent to it to give a sign in this regard. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall also vote on the supplementary or amendment amendment tabled by Mr Krainer, Mr Jakob Auer, colleagues on the insertion of a new Z8a in Art. Part 2 and amendment of Art. 50 50 Part 2 Z 9 § 345 para. 2. When I agree, I'm looking for an important sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on the amendment tabled by Mrs Oellinger, colleagues, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats), on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. 50 Part 2 Z 9 § 345 Deletion of the para. 3 and the resulting modification of the following paragraph names. Whoever agrees to this amendment, I would like to ask for a sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on these parts of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. I would ask those members of the House who give their consent to it to give a sign in this regard. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on the amendment tabled by Mr Krainer, Mr Jakob Auer, colleagues on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. 51, introductory phrase. Whoever gives his consent, I ask for an important sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall also proceed to the vote on the amendment tabled by Mr Oellinger, colleagues, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats), on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. 51 part 2 deletion of the Z 8. I am looking for a sign for those ladies and gentlemen who speak for it. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on this part of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. I am seeking a sign from those members of the House who give him their consent. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall also proceed to the vote on the supplementary amendment tabled by Mr Krainer, Mr Jakob Auer, colleagues on the subject of Art. 51 Part 2 Inserting a new Z 9a. I'm looking for a sign for those ladies and gentlemen who stand up for it. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on the amendment tabled by Mr Öllinger, Mr Members, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats), on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. 51 Part 2 Z 10, Art. 52 deletion of Z 1, 4, 5 and 7, Art. 56 Amendment to Z 11 and Art. 57 Amending Z 3. Whoever speaks for these amendments, I ask him for a sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on these parts of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. I would ask those members of the House who give their consent to it to give a sign in this regard. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall also proceed to the vote on the amendment tabled by Mrs Glawischnig-Piesczek, colleagues on the deletion of this kind. 84. I'm looking for a sign when I'm agreed. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall immediately vote on these parts of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. I would ask those members of the House who give their approval to this House to give a sign in this regard. – This is accepted by a majority. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on, taking into account the amendment tabled by Mr Krainer, Mr Jakob Auer, Mr Auer, on the amendments to the Article and Paragraphs which result from the amendments adopted, together with the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to a positive sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are also at third reading for this draft law to be a sign of approval. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Kogler, ladies and gentlemen, on the amendment of legislative powers in the field of health care. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 3: Draft federal law amending the Federal Finance Act 2012 and the Federal Financial Framework Act 2012 to 2015 and the Federal Financial Framework Act 2013 to 2016 will be adopted in 1681 of the Supplements. There is a motion for an amendment tabled by Mr Zinggl, colleagues and a motion for an amendment tabled by Mr Mag. Mr Kogler, Mr Gradauer, Mr Grosz, Mr President. I shall therefore first vote on the parts concerned by the amendments and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. Mr Zinggl, ladies and gentlemen, tabled a motion for an amendment which was adopted in the form of a motion for a resolution. 3 § 2 Division 05 of the draft law refers. These changes concern the Public Prosecutor's Office. Whoever speaks out for these changes, I am looking for a sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall immediately vote on these parts of the draft law as it stands. I am looking for a sign for those ladies and gentlemen who speak for it. – This is accepted by a majority. Deputies Mag. Mr Kogler, Mr Grabauer, Mr Grosz, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, have tabled a motion for an amendment which is of a kind. 3 § 2 Division 06 of the draft law refers. These amendments concern the Court of Auditors. Whoever speaks out for these changes, I ask for a sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall immediately vote on these parts of the draft law as it stands. I am looking for a sign for those ladies and gentlemen who speak for it. – This is the majority and therefore adopted. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt in the version of the Government template. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to a sign on this point. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are also at third reading for this draft law to be a sign of approval. – That too is the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Grosz, colleagues, on no new BMW vans. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Schwentner, ladies and gentlemen, on cuts in development cooperation. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority and thus rejected. [[20:18:04]] 12. Point Report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on amendment 133/A(E) by Mrs Ing. Norbert Hofer, colleagues in the field of voluntary social security – granting of family allowance (1703, e.g.) 13. Point Report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on amendment 309/A(E) by Mrs Ursula Haubner, colleague and colleagues on voluntary social service year (1704 d.a.) 14. Point Report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on amendment 1848/A(E) by Mr Tanja Windbüchler-Souschill, colleagues on the right to family allowances up to 25 after completion of a voluntary year (1705 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e27426	We come to points 12 to 14 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. Mrs Kitzmüller has spoken. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e27454	High house! Without voluntary help, the quality of life in Austria cannot be maintained and developed in general. That is why we are required to maintain and create the framework conditions for this commitment by so many Austrians. Mr President. Mr. Minister! High house! A first step has already been taken in the right direction, by granting the family allowance, which we have already called for in 2008 and what has finally happened. But on the first step, further steps must be taken. I have chosen four steps that are essential to maintain this volunteering. The first step would be to grant inclusion in the public service in the event of equal qualifications to those who have already undertaken activities defined under this Voluntary Law. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] A second point would have to be to provide tax relief to private enterprises, which employ such volunteers, under certain conditions. This can be of great importance for a small company in rural areas, for example, if there is a fire accident or a mountain accident. There are essentially a large number of employees in these establishments, and the Minister, coming from the Mühlviertel, knows how it can grow. The third step must be to ensure a refund of VAT in the context of the purchase of equipment intended for direct use. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And a fourth step, ladies and gentlemen, and here I come back to today's requests, is that the time that we always recommend to our young people for a voluntary social year – and hope that they will also accept this advice and take this time for our people and do good to our people – will be counted for the reference time of family support and the family allowance will be extended by one year, as is already possible in the Federal Army. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Minister, above all in this case! Dear government parties! I invite you to take these four steps with us to do something for our volunteering here and make them tasty to the young people.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e27515	The next speaker was Mr Wöginger. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e27536	Mr President. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Kitzmüller, I invite you to take part in the debate at last, because on the points you have proposed, we will have a detailed discussion on 1 January. December exchanged in the Social Ministry – unfortunately, no one was present by your party. [[Abg. New builder: If you're not invited, you can't come!]] These applications have actually become superfluous because of the fact that on 29 October the Commission adopted a proposal for a directive. The voluntary social year was decided on February in the Hohe Haus. It is really a pleasure that after many years of discussion this legal framework for this important institution was finally created, and I can thank the Minister of Family Dr. Mitterlehner, but also all those employees who have worked for it for years. Family aid is now granted, and the Special Directive has become obsolete. What we have been calling for here for years together is also implemented in a joint four-party proposal, which, by the way, has not taken part in the FPÖ, wherever a resolution has been adopted in this direction, and that is why it is important that this family aid is now granted. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kitzmüller]] One thing to say about the Greens' request for an extension of the situation in this area is: During the civil service, of course, no family aid is paid, which is why this time has a substantial impact on family aid. Here in this area, however, we have the family aid during the voluntary social year, so it would be a disparity in this area between civil service and voluntary social year. That is to say, overall, the time for both areas remains the same, and it would therefore not be reasonable if we were to extend family aid here. Let me conclude by saying a few words about what Mrs Kitzmüller asked for: You are right in relation to the preferred inclusion in the public service. ==References== In December, it was discussed in detail. It is now true that the Federal Chancellery is sending a letter to all public institutions – it should have already been received from these bodies – that in this area, preferred admissions should be made with equal qualifications. The communities live up to this. Unfortunately, this cannot be included in the registration law for reasons of unconstitutionality. We would have really tried to do this. The second point is: The Voluntary Act has already set up a support fund for businesses that play a significant role in the fact that they employ above average many volunteers and employ them in their business. This is a good first step – one can still expand it, I admit, but the foundation stone is laid in this direction. Another point which you have not mentioned, which is also important to us and which is also included in this four-party proposal, is a common liability insurance, especially for smaller organisations. In my opinion, Vorarlberg has made a very good policy position here by ensuring and ensuring liability insurance for smaller associations and organisations. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to conclude by thanking all over 3.5 million people in Austria who are volunteering in our numerous associations and organizations. It is very, very important, especially today, on which we have decided this savings package with around €28 billion, that there are those people who do more than they need, and who, above all, work voluntarily and free of charge in the sense of the Austro-Chinese population. A warm thank you!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e27581	Next speaker: Mrs Windbüchler-Sushill. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e27602	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I look forward to the 1. June 2012, because when I joined the National Council three and a half years ago as a youth speaker, I met young people who had just completed a voluntary ecological year or a voluntary social year, young women and men who had contributed to a better world, and they asked me for support, probably as many of you did. Then: Voluntary activity, as it was regulated, had the great disadvantage that the family allowance was not paid that there was no legal security but only a small pocket money. ==References====External links== June, the date of the entry into force of the new law, a much more acceptable and good day for me, especially because much has been negotiated. There were many proposals which, together with colleagues, colleagues from other parties, the Social Ministry, with officials, with officials, but also with the Minister and the voluntary council, were well discussed and well negotiated. This law carries, I find, various manuscripts of different parties, and I think that is in this very broad field for a good and a right and important step. But it is actually not understandable that even now, before the law enters into force, it is clear that innovation will have to take place in the near future, and this simply includes the extension of the payment of family aid after the completion of the voluntary year, if an education or a study is continued. For the great difference between civil service and volunteering is the word “voluntary. ” My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, you know that civil service is an option for young men in the context of military service, but not a voluntary option. This is the big difference between civil service and volunteering. And that is why it is so important that all those who voluntarily say “sacrifice” you – under quotation marks – one year for social weakness in society, they give time to the environment, the memorial service, the memory of the atrocities of National Socialism, even if they have completed this year, should have the opportunity to receive the family allowance until the end of the year, namely until 25. Year of life. And that's the big difference: Voluntary activity should never become a disadvantage. And that is why this request, because the example, which was also brought, I would like to explain here again: If a 19-year-old HAK graduate makes a voluntary social year and then starts to study, she simply won't make it from a temporary point of view until the end of the 24th century. ==References====External links== It just doesn't work out. Therefore, the extension of the family allowance by one year.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e27640	The next item is Mrs Binder-Maier. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e27661	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The agenda items before the debate concern: Three motions for resolutions tabled in the Family Committee, which deal with the extension of family allowances in connection with the voluntary social year. First of all, I would like to say thanks to the thanks of August Wöginger and really all of them in Austria volunteering, all of them voluntarily, all members of the Blue Light organizations, because they do excellent work, provide time, and also their know-how, their knowledge, their creativity, their social competence – and for that is to be thanked. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The Voluntary Social Year Act will enter into force for the first time in June 2012, and it is an instrument for promoting voluntary engagement, including the closing of a voluntary social year, a voluntary environmental protection year and a memorial service in Austria or a commemorative, peace and social service abroad. This new law sets out these services very clearly. A completed professional experience is not necessary. You have to be at least 17 years old. The duration of use shall be between six and twelve months. And what I feel is very important is that the support organisations are subject to very strict quality criteria. And: This law also serves to protect the volunteers, and it focuses on the development and promotion of the participants. I also think that the provision of criteria for the implementation of pedagogical guidance is clearly defined, as is social security, i.e. insurance, entitlement to family support until the completion of the 24th century. Year of life and also the guarantee of a pocket money by the respective institutions. The young people now have legal requirements and also a legal claim, and they have a mandatory pocket money available, at least half the limit, and the amount of child drop-off for the parents remains and can be claimed. So, ladies and gentlemen, we believe that these three motions for resolutions have been put into place in this new law. In my opinion, we are now leaving the law to work once. If we look at how it affects – and if changes are necessary, we will discuss it. The basis for legal certainty is now laid for the first time.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e27718	Next speaker: Mrs Haubner. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e27740	Mr. Federal Minister! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! A long history of legal protection of family aid has taken a good turn with the decision of the Voluntary Law. The fact that good things sometimes take a very long time until they really get into the phase of implementation shows exactly this example: from 2006, when I introduced this as a special directive or special promotion directive at that time, even with the thought that this should be put on a legal basis, by the year 2012. I think we all worked hard together here. This request, which we have before us, comes from 2008, a request which is just for family aid to be granted. This passus is now completed, which has been implemented, And that's a part, an important part of the voluntary law. We know that just the voluntary social year is one of many voluntary services that are used for social engagement, but also for professional orientation. Therefore – Mr Wöginger is not present now – these proposals are certainly not unnecessary, because we also need to think further, because I see in this law two criticisms: On the one hand, no additional incentives are provided to enable more young people to work in the field of social services, the social year, because the financial resources are precisely defined on this border: 200 people a year, no more and no less. So if we want to do more, I wonder where the financial resources should come from. A second criticism of us is the following: It is right and good to grant a certificate, but what else does one have except for an ideal value of this certificate? And with this, I attach a very important demand on the part of the BZÖ, namely that this voluntary social year should be recognized as part of vocational training and should also be taken into account for later relevant training in the field of care and care. [[As a result, the Commission has not yet received any comments from the interested parties.]] Then: We need young people in this area. It is not only a future forecast that sometime the population will get older that sometime more people need care and care, but it is fact now in the present and the near future. And that we already have too few to care for and care for, show all the figures also from the federal states, where skilled workers are missing where many leave this area because they are overburdened and overburdened. That is why we should give young people here new opportunities to motivate them to get into this area. And that is why I also believe that this recognition or partial recognition of this voluntary social year would be a right way. Therefore: Not to say in conclusion, it's all vainly wondrous. We have taken a right step, but we have to keep thinking, with new ideas, with courage to new ideas, also in terms of training in the dual system, and – not only, but that is also important – all young people who carry out and practice this voluntary social year, the voluntary ecological year and much more, also thank you for their living solidarity.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e27794	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e27815	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Through the new Voluntary Law, we create for the first time a legal basis for the promotion of voluntary engagement, and I can only join the already expressed thanks – Mr Wöginger, but also Mrs. Binder-Maier mentioned that. In the final effect, I think, has already been sufficiently described what the improvement is about the previous state, and I see it as well: De facto, two of the three applications have been met, and the end of a development can, of course, never be reached, especially in the voluntary sector. Another question, however, is what the financial possibilities given on the other hand are like. are, and also, what it looks like with the equal rights and equal treatment of certain matters. I do not want to repeat what has already been said about the improvement, but to address the still open question as to the possibility of extending family support up to 25, especially when it comes to someone studying. It has not been mentioned in this context that we have in itself created a transitional arrangement by 2020. In other words, the person who has been active in the voluntary field before that date, before the age of 24 years, and who has not been involved in family aid, may benefit from the extension status until 25 years of age, if he is studying. So that means that there is a concrete, very, very - I would say - generous improvement regime. However, in cases where family allowances are granted directly during the voluntary social year, this extension status is not applicable. Mr Wöginger also referred to the reason why it would, of course, be an unequal treatment in relation to the situation when the presence or civil service is removed. No family aid is granted. There is a possibility of extension until the end of the 25th year. If we were to do so in the specific case, it would be a preference because this could be addressed afterwards in the time before and then as an extension status. I keep it with those who have previously stimulated this in intermediate calls: Let us see how the regulation works. We have just decided this in plenary a few weeks ago, and I would suggest that we look at it in practice. This applies equally to the point you referred to, Mrs Haubner, with the certificates. Any professional organisation or person who writes a professional image shall be exempt from the right to: It is not prohibited to create an appropriate practical possibility for the use of the certificates or the possibility of accounting. On the other hand, we have already discussed it in the Committee, voluntary activity in professional decisions will in any case be considered a qualification. If someone wants to start somewhere, as before, foreign activity is now also an additional qualification that is helpful to obtain a job. That means that there is actually the status of itself already given and will continue to improve. In this sense: A first step is taken. There are always possibilities for improvement, but I would make a law work once, and then let's keep looking. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e27867	Mrs Hellerer. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e27888	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! It has been mentioned several times today, which valuable work the volunteers and volunteers do in all areas where they are engaged, for our people, and of course I can join with the thanks of my previous speakers. In the course of the voluntary social year, which lasts between six and ten months, young people participate with great commitment in the various institutions and organizations, providing a very valuable service for the Society, and above all, they receive a corresponding recognition. Of course, it is also noted that they are an enrichment, especially in the social sphere, where they are engaged in many people, where they offer support and help so that people get better hold of their everyday lives. ==References== In February 2012, the Voluntary Act was passed here in the National Council. It was an important and important milestone, particularly with regard to the promotion of solidarity and social commitment among young people, who were put here, and of course a long-term demand was finally met. Many improvements have been made; some have been mentioned today. For me, of course, social security schemes, including educational support, are crucial, as mentioned above, and, of course, the granting of family support, which will be finally guaranteed for this voluntary social year, but not only for the social year, but also for all the voluntary activities that fall within this framework. The voluntary commitment of young people is thus given a whole new value in our society. This commitment certainly also offers the opportunity to focus on a professional basis – I am right, of course, Mrs Haubner – because it is also important that, if you volunteer, you choose exactly what you are tending to do, and perhaps also a vocational training to do so. But I am convinced that a qualification will also receive a certain recognition. That means, of course, it does well in the CV if you can say that you have volunteered accordingly. On the other hand, I would have to consider – and I am here with you too – to what extent professional accounting could make sense, particularly in the social field in the future. But let us see how it works and how this law can actually be applied in practice. There will, of course, be the possibility of further discussion. A good basis is created, and a further development is certainly possible.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e27936	Next speaker: Mr Doppler. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e27958	Minister! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Voluntary social year, granting the family allowance by the end of 2012. – The possibility of making a voluntary social year has existed since 1968. I believe that it is more important than ever to give young people the opportunity to examine for themselves with such a voluntary social year whether a social profession is the right one. Especially at a time when we have huge problems in the care sector – in all of Austria, caregivers are missing – all possibilities need to be exploited. From our point of view, the voluntary social year is an extremely efficient form of professional orientation and should therefore not be made worse financial and social security, ladies and gentlemen. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] Young people who are interested in getting into the care sector or social services must not be financially disadvantaged towards other young people in training. With the good will of the Federal Government, ladies and gentlemen, all participants in a voluntary social year would have to be granted the family allowance, beyond 2012. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e27996	Mrs Lueger is next spoken. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e28017	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The Voluntary Act is actually the legal framework for young people who are socially involved. Young people are very involved in social activities, and I am very glad that they have found a basis for them, where they are socially insured, receive a pocket money and have the opportunity to obtain family support. The social commitment that young people show is a good one and that they are interested in it shows that they are simply looking for practical experience in their lives. They take part of a time off school, and they are partly those who question personal development and also ask: Where do I want to go in my life? One point that I do not agree with my previous speaker is: Of course, many people are needed in the care professions, but nevertheless I cannot see young people in this voluntary social year as equivalent work partners there. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the Greens.]] But on the basis of the legislation of this voluntary social year, young people may then also choose to practice these social professions in the end. The Federal Youth Office is also of the opinion that this is a good first step in the right direction, and I believe that when the law enters into force, one will see how it works in its entirety, and it is not excluded that one will then develop it further.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e28057	Next speaker: Mrs Steibl. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e28078	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Summary: Yes, this voluntary social year or request, which we have decided by the Voluntary Act in February, is a good conclusion of the European Year of Volunteering. Because the colleague Windbüchler-Souschill said she started three years ago: I can only tell you what's so beautiful? –, the success has many fathers; “Mothers” I don’t trust to say. But I started with Mr Haubner over eight years ago, and it is really a bit sad when you work on one thing for so long, but you can say that we have achieved a good success. We have put something in the barn here, so to speak, in order to formulate it so salopp, and these three applications are, so to speak, completed and incorporated. Since it is already so late and perhaps some of them are already a bit tired of the hot discussion we have held today and which was also necessary in the savings package, I would like to add a little more to the discussion. Mayor Nagl and Landeshauptmann Deputy Hermann Schützenhofer recently had a press conference in Graz, where they have suggested – it is still not decided, but they have suggested – that we should think about a mandatory social year, but only if someone does not perform military service or civil service, or if women do not have child training times, because this would also be a good foundation for many other areas. [[Abg. Scheibner: When do you want to do this?]] [[Abg. Grosz: Should you do that with 15?]] I would like to conclude by encouraging you to think about it. We keep talking about evaluation and much more. In this sense, I would like to say: A thank you to all those who have worked on it! I've had 20 high-ranking fire brigades from my district today. They say it is good that we here in Parliament are improving one or the other, even for those who work volunteerly and voluntarily. In this sense: Let's think about it in the future!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e28128	Next speaker: Mr Lipitsch. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e28149	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We are talking today about three applications concerning the voluntary social year in particular. Yes, it took many years for a legal regime to come up, but I would like to say: Even in these years there have been many people, young people who have taken advantage of this year, without these safeguards that exist today, because the framework conditions have only been created now: to protect, to develop and to promote these people. Mrs Kitzmüller, I think you have strongly mixed two things. One is the voluntary social year, and you have also referred to the volunteer service in the fire brigades, which – I am absolutely of your opinion – is extremely important. Something has to be done in this area too. In the case of fire brigades, it also counts for the ideal value, but we also need to distinguish there – and I am in such an intervention organization – whether we are talking about short operations or long-term operations. Especially outside the villages, the companies are also ready to provide their employees for short-term operations, fire operations, accidents and so on – without major problems – but when it comes to long-term operations, of course, these workers are missing for several days in operation. But I believe that this law has taken the first step. Now we need to continue to discuss how to secure such things, and I believe the Minister will be in favour of ensuring that the other areas are safeguarded accordingly and that the voluntary service in Austria is given the priority it deserves, because these people make it out of idealism, and often they are not even thanked for it. That is why we are today saying a thank you to all those who provide these services.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e28179	As the last one on this item on the agenda, Mr Riepl is speaking on behalf of the European Parliament. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e28201	Mr President. Federal Minister! I think it's been said a lot. The Voluntary Law was passed a month ago, a milestone for voluntary engagement. And I think, Mrs Haubner, that the framework conditions that we decided with this law a month ago also increase the incentive to report and commit ourselves to it. You'll see how this goes on. Family aid has already been addressed, as has social security, quality standards and much more. Finally, Mr Federal Minister, I would like to share the following thoughts on this subject: The 300 or 400 people who have made this voluntary year up to now are the only group that hangs in the air with determination, so they have no youth representatives or any own representatives. The works councils in the organizations are not responsible, they are not employees. [[Federal Minister Dr. Mitterlehner: Voluntary Representatives!]] Yes, you may have to – and you said yes: Let's take a look at it for a while! – Later on, consider whether we cannot organise our own youth representatives, just as we have in the youth training law. I think they deserve it so that they don't hang in the air when there are problems or wishes. In this sense, we are doing well, as I think, to consider the opposition proposals completed.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e28237	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does one of the rapporteurs want the final word? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. Firstly, we shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 12: Request by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection to take note of its report 1703. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall also proceed to the vote on agenda item 13: Proposal from the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection to take note of its report 1704 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. Finally, we shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 14: Request by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection to take note of its report in 1705. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. [[20:55:36]] Reading of a part of the Official Protocol s
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e28308	I also have a written request from 20 Members, the intended version of the 148 official protocol. Meeting of the National Council on Agenda items 1: 1. Stability Act 2012 (1707 of Supplements), TOP 2: 2. Stability Act 2012 (1708 of the Supplements), and TOP 3: Federal Law amending the Federal Finance Act 2012 and the Federal Financial Framework Act 2012 to 2015 and the Federal Financial Framework Act 2013 to 2016 is adopted (1709 of the Supplements), so that these parts are deemed approved at the end of the meeting. This will enable immediate decision-making. I shall therefore proceed in this way and read the corresponding parts of the Official Protocol. 'No objection is raised in response to the President's proposal to negotiate Agenda items 1 to 3. TO point 1: Report of the Budget Committee on the Government Template (1680 of the Supplements): 1. Stability Act 2012 – 1. Staff 2012 (1707 of the Supplements) TO point 2: Report of the Budget Committee on the Government Template (1685 of the Supplements): 2. Stability Act 2012 – 2. Staff 2012 (1708 of the Supplements) TO point 3: Report of the Budget Committee on the Government Template (1681 of the Supplements): Federal Law amending the Federal Finance Act 2012 and the Federal Financial Framework Act 2012 to 2015 and the Federal Financial Framework Act 2013 to 2016 is passed (1709 of the Supplements) The Scheibner, ladies and gentlemen, have tabled the referral request (Annex I-III/1). There is a demand for separate vote Supplement II/2. There is a request from 20 Members to vote in favour of Supplement II/3. Member of the Commission. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, the motion for a resolution is set out in Annex 1/1 EA. Mr Grosz, ladies and gentlemen, tabled the motion for a resolution (Annex 3/1 EA). Mr Podgorschek, Members of Parliament, tabled the motion for a resolution (Annex 1/2 EA). Mr Pilz, colleagues, tabled the motion for a resolution (Annex 1/3 EA). Deputies Mag. Dr Zinggl, ladies and gentlemen, put the amendment to Supplement 3/2. The Members of Parliament, Mr Krainer, Mr Auer, and others, put forward the amendment Addenda 1/4, which is set out in the key points. The President shall be appointed by the President in accordance with paragraph 53. 4 GOG the reproduction and distribution. The President moved in accordance with § 65 para. 1 The vote on agenda items 1 to 3 at a later date. There is a demand for separate vote supplement I/2. There is a request from 20 Members to vote in favour of Supplement I/3. MEPs Dr Glawischnig-Piesczek, ladies and gentlemen, tabled the amendment supplement 2/1. The Members of Parliament, Mr Krainer, Mr Auer, and others, put forward the amendment Annex 2/2, which is set out in the key points. The President shall be appointed by the President in accordance with paragraph 53. 4 GOG the reproduction and distribution. Deputies Mag. Kogler, ladies and gentlemen, put to the motion for a resolution Supplement 2/3 EA. Deputies Mag. Schwentner, ladies and gentlemen, tabled the motion for a resolution (Annex 3/3 EA). Mr Brosz, fellow Members, tabled the amendment to Supplement 2/4, which is set out in the key points. The President shall be appointed by the President in accordance with paragraph 53. 4 GOG the reproduction and distribution. Mr Oellinger, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. — (NL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to make a point of order. The President shall be appointed by the President in accordance with paragraph 53. 4 GOG the reproduction and distribution. Deputies Mag. Kogler, Grabauer, Grosz, colleagues and others are tabling the amendment Supplement 3/4, which is explained in the key points. The President shall be appointed by the President in accordance with paragraph 53. 4 GOG the reproduction and distribution. Deputies Dipl.-Ing. Deimek, ladies and gentlemen, put to the motion for a resolution Supplement 1/5 EA. Mr Tadler, ladies and gentlemen, tabled the motion for a resolution (Annex 1/6 EA). This is sufficiently supported (for this reason F). There is a request from 20 Members to vote in favour of Supplement I/4. Mr Moser, ladies and gentlemen, tabled the amendment Annex 1/7. The Scheibner Member shall orally table the request for the postponement of the negotiations on Agenda items 1 to 3. Implementation of the common organization of the market § 65 para. 1 GMO votes on agenda items 1 to 3. The amendment by Mr Scheibner to Agenda item 1 is rejected (F, G, B, A). The amendment by Mr Scheibner on item 2 is rejected (F, G, B, A). The amendment by Mr Scheibner to Agenda item 3 is rejected (F, G, B, A). The referral request to agenda item 1 Annex I-III/1 is rejected (for this reason F, G, B, A). The referral request to agenda item 2 Supplement I-III/1 is rejected (for this reason F, G, B, A). The referral request to agenda item 3 Supplement I-III/1 is rejected (for this reason F, G, B, A). To TO point 1: The amendment Annex 1/7 is rejected (F, G, B, A). The draft law, in accordance with the Committee's proposal in 1707, will be adopted in a separate vote in the form of an amendment to Supplement 1/4 in the second reading. 2nd paragraph 20 in a natural vote Votes cast: 164 Of which yes-voices: 99 No votes: 65 and with regard to the remaining parts, taking into account the amendment request Supplement 1/4, adopted by a majority (S, V) and adopted at third reading by a majority (S, V). Adjournment of the part-session on voting from 19.22 a.m. to 7.36 p.m. The motion for a resolution Supplement 1/1 EA is rejected (F, B, A). The motion for a resolution (Annex 1/2 EA) is rejected (F, B, A). The motion for a resolution (Annex 1/3 EA) is rejected (F, G, B, A). The motion for a resolution Supplement 1/5 EA is rejected (F, B, A). The motion for a resolution Supplement 1/6 EA will be put to the vote at the next voting time. Votes cast: 165 Of which yes-voices: 3 No votes: 162 (The sitting was suspended Adjournment of the voting session from 19.45 a.m. to 19.51 p.m. To TO point 2: The amendment Annex 2/1 is rejected (F, G, B, A). The amendment Annex 2/4 is rejected (F, G, B, A). The amendment Annex 2/5 is rejected (for this reason G). The draft law, in accordance with the Committee's proposal in 1708, will be adopted in a separate vote in the second reading, taking into account the additional and/or additional amendments. Amendment request Supplement 2/2 with regard to Art. 37 to 48 in a natural vote taking into account the amendment amendment Annex 2/2 Votes cast: 167 Of which yes-voices: 103 No votes: 64 and with regard to the remaining parts adopted by a majority (for which S, V) and adopted at third reading by a majority (for which S, V). Adjournment of the part-session on voting from 19.59 a.m. to 20.04 a.m. The motion for a resolution (Annex 2/3 EA) is rejected (F, G, B, A). To TO point 3: The amendment Annex 3/2 is rejected (F, G, A). The amendment Annex 3/4 is rejected (F, G, B, A). The draft law, in accordance with the Committee's proposal in 1709, will be adopted by a majority of votes in the second and third readings (S, V). The motion for a resolution Supplement 3/1 EA is rejected (F, G, B, A). The motion for a resolution (Doc. 3/3 EA) is rejected (for this reason G). There is a desire according to § 51 para. 6 GOG by 20 Members to read the Official Protocol on Agenda items 1 to 3 before (Annex E). Are there any objections to the version or content of those parts of the Official Protocol? Mr Scheibner has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e28581	Mr President. If we are already allowed to listen to this reading in order to allow the corresponding process, the shortened procedure, then of course it is necessary that this protocol also clearly reflects the session history. If I understood correctly, Mr President, you have read in the item entitled 'Supporting the request from Mr Tadler' that he was sufficiently supported; in brackets (Freedom Party). I assume that there are not parties here, but groups. In the case of voting behaviour, it may be sufficient for a political group to agree to a request or not. However, with regard to the question of sufficient support for a request put forward here, I think it is necessary that the number of additional supporters is mentioned here, because even if a group is represented here, that could be only three people, and that would not be enough for the support of an application here. Maybe you could read the corresponding passage again. In any case, I believe that this does not reflect properly and sufficiently the course of the sitting on this point.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e28619	I will not approach the objections, nor will the Minutes be amended. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] It has been noted that sufficient support has been given to the way in which the majority or minority is not counted in other votes. There is a number of votes to this effect. I believe that the Official Protocol is correct and reflects the course of the sitting. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] [[Abg. Dr. Cap: (in the direction of Abg. That's only in the clamp! Is there the brackets in the Rules of Procedure?]] Furthermore, are there other objections to the Official Protocol? - That's not the case. The corresponding parts of the Official Protocol shall therefore apply in accordance with section 51 para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure, with the end of the sitting, as approved. The agenda is exhausted. [[21:10:40]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e28671	I am still announcing that in today's session, the self-employed applications were submitted in 1885/A(E) to 1899/A(E). Questions 11200/J to 11252/J have also been received. The next meeting of the National Council, which will concern business communications and allocations, will be convened at 9 p.m. – that is immediately after this meeting. This meeting is closed.
