ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00163_d7e2947	Good day, ladies and gentlemen! I'll open the 163. Meeting of the National Council. The official protocols of 159 and 160. Meeting of 13. ==References====External links== Meeting of 14. ==References====External links==* Official website As prevented, MEPs are reported Köfer, Prehauser, Großruck, Schittenhelm, Kunasek, Mag. Unspoiled, Mag. Brunner and Mag. Honey. Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00163_d7e2978	For this meeting, the Federal Chancellery on the representation of members of the Federal Government made the following statement: The Federal Minister for Economic Affairs, Family and Youth Dr. ReinholdMitterlehner is represented by the Federal Minister for Science and Research Dr. Karlheinz Dägenle. [[13:16:25]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00163_d7e3014	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00163_d7e3201	I announce that this meeting will be transferred live to ORF 2 to 16 o'clock and ORF III. [[Unrest.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I may ask for a little more attention! Apart from the 24-hour lead-out period
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00163_d7e3229	In order to be able to negotiate items 1 to 4 of the agenda, it is in accordance with § 44 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure It is necessary to refrain from the 24-hour deadline for the submission of the Committee's reports. Points 1 to 4 are: the report of the Constitutional Committee on the Government Template (1782 D.B._Other Organiser Party Act 2012 (1844 d.B.), the report and request of the Constitutional Committee on the draft federal law on the funding of the Federal Government for political parties (Parties Funding Act 2012) (1845 d.B.), the report and request of the Constitutional Committee on the draft federal law amending the Federal Presidential Election Act in 1971 (1846, e.g.), and the report of the Constitutional Committee on the motion for a resolution 1942/A by Dr Josef Cap, Karlheinz Kopf, colleagues and colleagues concerning a federal law amending the BVG and the Incompatibilities Act (1847 d.B.). I would ask the ladies and gentlemen to give their agreement to the withdrawal from the time-limit for these committee reports. – This is unanimously accepted. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00163_d7e3280	It is proposed that the debate on points 1 to 6 of the agenda be summarized. On the other hand, is there an objection? - That's not the case. Let's go into the agenda. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00163_d7e3304	A consensus was reached between the members of the Presidential Conference on the design and duration of the debate. Accordingly, a day block time of 3 ‘Vienna hours’ has been agreed, so that the following speaking times arise: SPÖ and ÖVP per 44 minutes, FPÖ 38 minutes, Green 32 minutes and BZÖ 30 minutes. For the duration of the television broadcast in ORF 2, the following terms were agreed: a speaker/redner round with 10 minutes each, a member of the government SPÖ with 10 minutes, a speaker/redner round with 7 minutes each, a member of the government ÖVP with 10 minutes, a speaker/redner round with 7 minutes each and a speaker/redner round with 4 minutes each. The call for speakers is based on the strength of the political groups. The President-in-Office of the Presidency shall ensure that the agreed speaking times are respected accurately and shall, at the latest before the beginning of the final round – after consultation with the club members – distribute the remaining speaking time to the five political groups at the same time for the last round. Actual corrections are only called after the end of the television transmission time in ORF 2. Furthermore, according to § 57 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure, to limit the speaking time of each Member of Parliament to 10 minutes without a club membership. We shall now proceed to the vote on the speaking time just presented. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this proposal to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously accepted. [[13:19:55]] 1. Point Report of the Constitutional Committee on the Government Template (1782, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law on the Financing of Political Parties (Parteiengesetz 2012 – PartG) (1844 d.B.) 2. Point Report and request of the Constitutional Committee on the draft Federal Law on Funding of the Federal Government for Political Parties (PartFörG) (1845 d.b.) 3rd. Point Report and request of the Constitutional Committee on the draft federal law amending the Federal Presidential Election Act 1971 (1846, e.g.) 4. Point Report by the Constitutional Committee on Amendment 1942/A by Dr Josef Cap, Karlheinz Kopf, Members and colleagues on a Federal Act amending the BVG and the Inconsistency Act (1847, B.B.) 5. Point Report of the Justice Committee on the Government Template (1465, e.g._Other Organiser The Federal Act establishing a federal law to ensure transparency in the perception of political and economic interests (lobbying and representation of interests-transparency law – lobbyG) and amending the Law on Courts of Justice (1832, e.g.) 6. Point Report by the Committee on Justice, Public Health and Consumer Protection on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. Herbert Donnerbauer, Dr. Johannes Jarolim, Mag. Albert Steinhauser, Gerald Grosz, colleagues on a federal law that amends the Criminal Code and Criminal Procedure Code 1975 to improve the fight against corruption (Corruption Penal Penal Control Act 2012 – CorrStrÄG 2012) Amendment 1467/A(E) by Mr Josef Bucher, colleagues, on the creation of an anti-corruption paragraph for politicians and a reform of the system of party financing, similar to the demands of the Council of Europe, on the Question No 1478/A by Mr Mag. Albert Steinhauser, colleagues and colleagues concerning a federal law with which the Criminal Code, BGBI. No. 60/1974, as last amended by BGBI. I No. 111/2010, amended (reliability of the parliamentary debate), on the Question No 1479/A by Mr Mag. Albert Steinhauser, colleagues and colleagues on the reintegration of public enterprises into corruption law and on the Question No 1487/A(E) by Mr Mag. Albert Steinhauser, colleagues with regard to criminality of the “federation” (the creation of dependencies by repeated gifts to officials) (1833, e.g.)
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00163_d7e3472	We now come to points 1 to 6 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. In order to make a print error correction to point 5, I would like to give Mrs Mag. Steßl-Mühlbacher. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00163_d7e3493	Madam President. High house! I bring the following print error correction to Agenda item 5: Report of the Committee of Justice in 1832 of the Supplements, before: In that part of the Committee's report, which was not included in the decision, on page 4 of the second paragraph, the reference to the club's voting behaviour is not ‘(for that reason: S, V, against: F, G, B)’, but rather ‘(for that reason: S, V, F, against: G, B)’.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00163_d7e3526	Thank you. There has been no oral reporting on the further points. We are going into the debate. First of all, Mr Cap's speech comes at 10 minutes' speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00163_d7e3556	Madam President. High house! We all know that the Austrian community, the administration, our society, lives very strongly from the fact that many hard-working, honest and committed mandates – councillors, mayors, parliamentarians, national councillors, federal councillors – are active in our country and are trying to do their best with one sometimes up to, as you say, 24 hours of commitment to the country, for the people, for those of whom they were elected, but also for many others, beyond the party borders. The current parliamentary investigation committee, a sign of a functioning control culture here in the house – the examination committees that preceded it, too – shows that we want and are able to draw the right conclusions from the painters who seem to have few to account for, from the painters who refer to people and not, as is often said to simplification, to parties. We have said that if new findings are now available in the Committee of Inquiry, this will also be included in the ongoing negotiations, in the areas mentioned by the President, which are now voting, whether this is anti-corruption or lobbying; the regulation on lobbying, which really sets out the rules under which lobbying is to take place, the boundaries are shown in this respect, there is a record of transparency and there are sanctions in the case of infringements. - That's an area. The other area is, under which conditions often contacts with the population, with stakeholders, with lobbyists, with various other sides of the mandates and with the MEPs, all who are in politics. In this context, citizens had a legitimate interest in creating clear, almost radical rules. And that's exactly what's guaranteed by today's package, as I mean. For example, the anti-corruption provisions provide that, in future, Members – not only but also Members – who claim an advantage for themselves or a third party, for the purpose of carrying out or for the omission of an official business, will also have an undue advantage or can be promised to punish with imprisonment for up to two years. What we want to express is: There are not two classes in this country, the excluded political class and the simple citizens who also have to pay for it and watch how it goes down there and over it! It's not like that! I have therefore said at the outset that it has not deserved many hard-working and committed mandates, many hard-working officials, many hard-working officials and many who participate in the community, that their reputation is ruined by a few who have rightly been presented here in the Investigation Committee or are still being presented by the judiciary! And our task is to face it! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] We were all faced with the legitimate demand for transparency, which we are working here and are sitting here, but also with the members of the government, also with mandates in the countries. [[Abg. Petzner: Say something about the promotion of the party!]] [[Abg. Petzner: Say something about the promotion of the party!]] Today, we decide on two-thirds of the majority, which also includes rules concerning the countries themselves, the Land Days, the members of the state government and so on. [[Abg. Booker: (a table showing) promotion of parties!]] [[Further calls to the BZÖ.]] And we will now, because the legitimate call for the Internet and for transparency has come – Can you turn off Mr. Petzner, he has a plug? [[New call for tender of the Abg. Petzner.]] [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] Is that all right? [[Inter-calls at the BZÖ.]] We will now also ensure that this transparency is guaranteed. We will take over from the German Bundestag the development of a model, where we need to specify the income that we have except for the mandates that are available at any time. It is necessary to specify the income. And this is on Parliament's homepage. This becomes clear – this is also a merit of those initiatives that have so far demanded, and also one of the results of our work and our negotiations – and visible, there will be a kind of glass parliament where one can see what happens to the money, how Members shape the income. This is fully made available to the public. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grosz.]] It is a category system in which everyone has to belong, analogous to the German Bundestag. I believe that this is absolutely crucial. However, there will also be the functions that everyone has to represent the executive functions, whether voluntary or paid. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Grosz.]] So there is also a rather radical solution in this regard, which is to represent what everyone does and what he/she is obliged to do. So I come to the next point, on the question of donations, sponsorship, advertisements. I believe that it is very important that we provide very strict rules. For example, if donations from an annual sum of €3500 are to be attached to a party's account report, that means: in the year! In sponsoring: 12 000 € a year! All that is about making it transparent is to be presented in a list in the back, on which there should be an accountable report. Ads detto – we have also adopted a media transparency law, where the directives in the main committee of the House still need to be decided today. It is also about the clear separation between the listing and the part of the text that a journalist writes and under which his name stands. There must be no mixture between this part of the text as a message, as a comment and what an advertisement is. This is very crucial – a quantum leap, just like what we have here. We want a uniform accountability obligation for political parties from the top to the bottom. We want there to be no circumvention. We have also regulated this: it is a clear rule on the disclosure of donations as well as the prohibition of donations. To this end, I would like to say: Donations are not permitted by public-law bodies, companies in which the public hand is involved with at least one quarter of the donation-favourable institutions, donations that are given in expectation of a return. And then there are the limits for cash donations, for anonymous donations, for forward donations, for foreign donations – that is, an entire list of whole, very strict rules that should really lead to transparency. And on this point I would like to add something: I believe with regard to the promotion of the party – and party democracy is indeed the foundation and Parliament for which the Members of this House are candidates on lists of parties, the heart of democracy – that we are all well advised if we do not deliberately criminalise both the promotion of the party and the donations as well as the sponsorship and the advertisements here – so to speak: everyone who receives a donation is already part of the category of light-shoes – but that is something that is in a democracy when it is managed transparently when there are rules for it, something quite normal. [[Abg. Bucher: Everything! Every donation! Every donation!]] And that's what it's supposed to be in the future. This should also be a very essential point in our discussions, I believe, which we really need to take into account. On the issue of “control and sanctions” because many citizens ask themselves the question: Okay, you decide something there, and you have rules there, but there's also control, are there sanctions? – Of course there are! There are, of course, auditors who are subject to very strict rules. There is the Court of Auditors, which is, in fact, always strictly carrying out its audits, and which also combines them with proposals – proposals which are often included in the work of this House, also here, on this issue. We have of course also taken into account expert opinions: those of Sickinger, von Vierder and, of course, those of the President of the Court of Auditors Moser. [[Abg. Bucher: What does he say about the promotion of the party, about doubling?]] In this respect, it is important that there is a uniform accountability and that there are sanctions and that punishments are also pronounced – penalties for the parties, penalties for individuals responsible for violations – but that we also comply with the people's desire that there is also a certain discipline in the expenditure of election struggles, that there is a ceiling. So it is a truly comprehensive whole act that we are presenting here today and that we are interested in the fact that this is really being debated very seriously. Why? – Because from today’s day on, from today’s decision, it will also be valid for federal, state, local, federal, regional, local and local parties, for side-organisations, for alliances – for all organizational structures, which can only be imagined here – namely that transparency is the highest bid and that the taxpayer knows from now on where his money is used, what happens with it. In the end, this includes the whole complex of party promotion. We discussed this yesterday in the Constitutional Committee – there are different opinions on this, both in terms of size and timing. [[Abg. Bookbooker: (a poster holding to the height) These are the true sizes!]] On individual opinions I must say, Mr Klubobmann Bucher, you can at any time give up the promotion of the party. No one's forcing you to do that. You can give up the whole party promotion. Yes! Just give them... [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Grosz: This is superfluous for the people in Austria who have no money! There are also people in Austria...!]] [[Further calls to the BZÖ.]] I had an idea! Maybe you'll give it to the victims of the state hypo carinthia, the Carinthian taxpayer? – So you can leave at any time; no one prevents you from doing so. As of today, we want a new start, and we want this to be clear – through transparency, the requirement for cleanliness – and that control and sanctions guarantee this.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00163_d7e3785	Mr Klubobmann's head is next spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00163_d7e3806	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I believe that I will all agree when I say that democracy and the rule of law – both things, inseparably connected – are the basis for peace in a country and that there can be prosperity in a country. [[Abg. Kickl: Freedom! Freedom!]] [[Between call of the Abg. Ing. Westenthaler.]] That is why we must do everything in our power and in our ability to uphold, protect and develop precisely these two things – democracy and rule of law. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It is such things as corruption or even the suspicion that there is some sort of corrupt behavior, especially at the interface of politics to the economy, from politics to individuals outside politics, so even the suspicion of corruption is suitable to undermine confidence in democracy and the rule of law. That is to say, we already have everything to do to strengthen this confidence, as I said, but also – and Mr Cap has already said – to protect all those who in this country, at municipal level, at regional level, or at the federal level or at the European level, are trying to uphold democracy, who are trying to bring about decisions under democratic rules, on behalf of the people whom they have elected and legitimized. We owe all these many hard-working, honest, committed officials at all levels of our democratic system to the fact that in this House we have actually implemented what we are doing, namely today strict rules, bans and bans on the one hand, and on the other, the strictest – I think, the strictest – rules of transparency that exist in Europe, so that exactly what has been promoted in recent months and years – the investigative committee has done – can no longer be done as far as possible by or there by individuals. [[Abg. Bucher: Party promotion!]] [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Today, we create rules that apply both to parties, to individual politicians and mandates, as well as to the economy, to individual companies and to individuals. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein]] We decide to intensify the law of corruption, ladies and gentlemen, which imposes stricter rules on us, namely rules on what can be accepted in invitation, which can be accepted in any case in society. It is not true that we do not want to continue and want to participate in social life, but we are rightly under a very special observation and therefore have to give ourselves particularly strict rules. We tighten these rules for politicians, we tighten the penalties that we will be exposed to in the future in the event of misbehaviour, and I think that is good. We tighten the law of incompatibility and include transparency and disclosure obligations as regards our other activities – both professional and voluntary. The same applies to: We do not want Members to be only mandates. We want as many mandates as possible to have a civil profession as possible, an entrepreneurial activity, a professional activity, for example an activity in agriculture or an employee's activity, but it must be transparent for citizens, because, of course, certain interests are also involved in carrying out such tasks. [[Abg. Bookbooker: Chamber and union!]] But again: The activities should not be prohibited, they should be transparent for everyone, and thus the behaviour of every politician is understandable, even in the light of the knowledge of the other activities. Another thing: There are also legitimately many people – in companies, in organizations, as well as in companies that have been created for this purpose – who represent us towards interests, in the form of lobbying or just the legal representations of interests. [[Abg. Bucher: Banks! Banks!]] That's legitimate – that's legitimate! – but this should also be transparent and not behind the curtain. That is to say, we create a register for all lobbyists, for all in the field of lobbying, in the representation of other actors, in relation to politics, and thus every citizen can know – and one should also learn this by publishing these activities – that: Aha, here is the one or the one representing the interests or interests. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Steinhauser.]] This gives us a comprehensive set of rules and a system in which we, as I said, corruption, or even the suspicion of corruption, with the best and most appropriate means, namely the greatest possible transparency. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] To the parties: We also create a new party law and a party promotion law. And everyone to whom democracy is important – seriously important! – that would have to be important to parties. Parties are the foundation and the basic structure of our representative democracy. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Dr. stupid.]] - Please! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grosz.]] [[Abg. Bucher:... Hooligan sector!]] Although perhaps parties and politicians today or there are often mocked in their reputation – some of them themselves in debt, many things but also simply overstated – I say it again: I believe that parties are essential for the functioning of our democracy and I also recognise a dual and sufficient funding of these parties. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr Pirklhuber]] Dual means to me that it must continue to be possible for private parties to donate money, that private – or even companies – to recognise: [[New call for tender of the Federal Republic of Germany Dr Pirklhuber]] [[Abg. Grosz: The Telekom too!]] I support a certain political direction by financially supporting the work of a particular party! [[Inter-calls at the BZÖ.]] But the same applies here too – and this makes this party law: The demand for transparency applies! This means that donations to parties should not happen in the dark, but this law ensures that these donations are granted transparently and openly to parties. And in that way, we are once again eliminating one of those points that in the past have given rise to speculation, even if they were not justified. But if I don't know as a citizen, then of course there or there is a suspicion. We don't want this suspicion. We do not want to suspend this, so we also create transparency in the donations to the political parties. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] However, I am also in favour of the second rail of financing the parties, for public support from taxpayers' money. If we are serious about democracy, if we are serious about the importance of the parties for the functioning of democracy, then Ladies and gentlemen, we must also equip the parties with appropriate resources. This, from the functioning of democracy and of the parties, also benefits those who now enjoy protection from the opposition, in particular from the FPÖ and the BZÖ, by saying: Now you're giving yourself more money and the others, those or those, don't you give it! We have one of Europe's best-developed social systems, if not the world, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Let's not play out one state's need against the other! We should not do that in a political field. And we should not now underestimate the fact that we are trying to shift the balance between public support between countries and the federal government because it is currently in a wrong position at the expense of the federal parties and in favour of the parties in some – not all, in some! – Countries that we are trying – that is my final point – to postpone this balance in favour of the federal parties. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign]] I think that is legitimate, that is right and it serves the functioning of democracy in our country.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00163_d7e4006	Mr Klubobmann Strache is next spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00163_d7e4028	Madam President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen in the plenary room and in front of the TV screens! Yes, some law that is passed today was long overdue and really necessary and is also supported by us: whether this is agenda item 3 in which it is about the Federal Presidential Election Act – in this respect it has been highly reasonable and long time that the President, who has received his over €2 million election donation, must also disclose it; of course, yes, that is necessary – whether this is an incompatibility law, a lobbying law or also a corruption law – all this is put out of dispute. Of course, this is long overdue and necessary, but it is sad – and this has ultimately also confirmed the previous speakers, and there can no longer be any wonder when more and more citizens of this country are rightly threatened, rightly angry, if they experience it – that now, today, by three parties in this House, namely SPÖ, ÖVP and the Greens, through a corridor that is decided by constitutional law, the pipeline can be doubled to € 29 million. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This is then an insolent process, which must rightly annoy people who have been brought into an EU constitution by the same parties without referendum, through which the same parties have been led to an EFSF rescue screen, which today requires Austrian taxpayers in the area of bank speculators to assume EUR 20 billion in liability, but which Austrian taxpayers and citizens are at the same time confronted with cuts in family benefits, with a reduction in care payments. Now, however, one goes here in shame and in shame and doubles its own party funding at the federal level. Now I also understand why the Secretary-General Herbert Kickl, who has negotiated for us, has not given what he has called for. He asked the Secretary of State Ostermayer to ensure that Mr Faymann and Mr. Vice-Chancellor Spindelegger – also calculated – were to submit and confirm that there was no increase. That's exactly what the two of them did not want, because they were quite different, and that's exactly what you have to say, of course. This increase in the financing of the parties was apparently from the very beginning an unsealed matter between the three parties SPÖ, ÖVP and Greens, who, of course, make the robbers here, no question, because this corridor in the Constitutional Law can now be determined by a simple majority by the government in the future and in the end can also be ensured and thus ensure a fine distribution even before a next National Council election. If you say, Mr. Klubobmann Cap, The opponents who want to reject this should refrain from it!, I say: Let us reject it together today, so that it does not come to pass at all! – That would be our responsibility. [[Complaints with FPÖ and BZÖ.]] If you decide to do so in a row, the opposition would be irresponsible, it would not accept it, because otherwise you will divide this cake again, just as you have done in the past. [[Complaints with FPÖ and BZÖ.]] [[Intervocations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] This is probably the greatest step of insolence! So we will use this money, if you ever decide to do so in the form, for direct democracy and for the enforcement of democracy, because direct democracy by means of the right of initiative would prevent exactly such increases in the future. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the ÖVP]] Through binding referendums, you could no longer afford such insolent ways of doing so, because the people could then bring it down with binding referendums. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Donnerbauer.]] That is why you are afraid of the people and why you are torpedoing and preventing direct democracy, but that is exactly what we will make visible to the people. All you're doing here now is really, cheap theatre donners, where fog grenades are also thrown off the sides of the greens who then pretend to have nothing to do with it – nothing to do! [[Call: So it is]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: All over it!]] They only make the robbers for the constitutional majority of the corridor, so that the government can then decide by a simple majority. I can't believe it! And here I say that this is an alliance of insolence, a coalition of horror, otherwise it cannot be described, which has apparently already made very, very consistent agreements also in the direction of the European Stability Mechanism and the ESM Dictat, without a referendum. [[Accident with FPÖ and BZÖ]] Today, it has been four years since the famous and well-known letter of the Federal Chancellor, who sits behind me. Four years ago – on the day exactly! – in the largest daily newspaper in Austria, Mr. Federal Chancellor Faymann has sent a letter to all Austrians, promising that he will ensure a binding referendum in the event of significant changes to the European Constitution, the Lisbon Treaty or also the Austrian Constitution. Today he can no longer remember and wants to break the promise of the ESM-Diktat, which you want to drive towards decision-making next week. This is, of course, a fundamental constitutional change of the Lisbon Treaty, because there is expressly no transfer and debt union – and that is what you want to change. To everything else we will come next week and also in the negotiations. But that shows your dishonesty. And then you'll be surprised if the citizens are ultimately stunned because they have to look out for such developments that you have to answer by passing over the interests of your own people, without this people having a say, an initiative right somewhere, a democratic right of regulation. That's it! Given this inadequacy, this despair of the citizens, that here a few who are directing it, out of a source of power, out of a party-political possession, perhaps due to network interests of banks or large global corporations, make such decisions against their own population permanently, you must not be surprised if the population says: It's putting us in the collar! We can't see these politicians anymore! – This is a natural process, of course, to be understood. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Herbs.]] That is why we have not only a financial and monetary crisis, but also a democratic crisis. You know that! Direct democracy, binding referendums are the way out of this crisis. But there you go back and forth and say that there is no tradition – as if tradition were necessary for the expansion of democracy! It should be the wish of every democrat to further develop democracy, namely through citizens' control rights! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Herbs.]] Mr. Herbs, you act according to the motto: This week we sell the Austrians for stupid and next week we betray them. That's your motto, Mr. Herbs, that's what you're already known for! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Of course, the whole has a character of an empowerment law that is being prepared here. This is, of course, an additional burden for taxpayers, and this is a load axis where the free movement licence is guaranteed by the Greens. I say: It is a shameless enrichment alliance with a green helper who has set himself up here, which you just have to work out. But I also say: The only reasonable and honest solution in another area would have been to generally ensure a ban on donations by law if you wanted to stop abuse in general! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr. Klubobmann's head, good birthday! You have today's birthday, and – I think it's decent to do this to the political competitor – I only wish you the best personally. [[Abg. Head: Thank you!]] But we have different political beliefs in many areas, and I say: A general ban on donations would be necessary. Then we can talk about the extent to which the funding is justified or not. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Dr. Herbs.]] Prohibition of any interested person! Sure, your foundations are partly in Liechtenstein – why they are there, why the union needs foundations in Liechtenstein, I don't know; everything is funny – and I understand that you are riding here and still want to keep these networks open. But I say: Just the 3 500-€ limit offers again the possibility of abuse by allowing many to give their donations over smaller tranches and by finding other mechanisms. I say: Let's be honest! Let us make a donation ban for donations from Germany and abroad, and then we talk about an comprehensible and also supportable party support for the population, with which each party will have to reach out. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Kogler.]] This would be the right way, in the sense of the state of the art and the fight against corruption and against the interests of the network, which we want to ensure and for which we are to have, if we wish to do so honestly. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But, unfortunately, that is not what is given in this form. That is why, of course, we are going to court with you on these points very, very hard, because you can just say that you are trying to keep the channels open with all possible possibilities. Now we can also discuss the expenditure limit, which, of course, does not apply to government parties in the future. Because in Vienna, where Rot-Grün rules, you can spend more than the 7 million-€ edition limit during the election campaign by simply switching over the magistrate departments unlimited for example ads in newspapers. Is it true that democracy is correct? I say: No, no, no, Even if in Burgenland and Vorarlberg the country election campaign is limited to just as much €7 million as the election campaign of a federal party before a national council election, I wonder if the democratically reasonable and with respect to the limitation is right! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek.]] I also wonder if it is correct – the closing point – that in the future all government officials can place ads above their ministries, beyond the border! [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign]] That's indecent, and you didn't regulate it. That is why we cannot agree with that either.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00163_d7e4237	Next, Mrs. Klubobfrau Dr. Glawischnig-Piesczek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00163_d7e4258	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! If Mr. Klubob-man says that he already knows what he will do with the promotion of the party in the future, namely that in direct democracy, then we know what is happening to us, namely the next completely indispensable poster campaign, where the Klubobmann and the head of the party of the FPÖ once again place itself throughout Austria. [[Abg. Strache: If you step through democracy with your feet, then that is not surprising!]] I think that has nothing to do with direct democracy! [[It was in favour of the Greens as well as of representatives of SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Please open up how you have financed the last campaigns throughout Austria! This has certainly not been the case with the State Party financing, which anyone can calculate. Put that open once! So what's amazing now is this fog throw. We can discuss everything in peace, but I would like to stick to the facts. It has shown itself to an opposition party from its embarrassing and pitiful side by being unable to negotiate – I say this in all non-mindness towards FPÖ. If one is to run out of the meeting room and doesn't show up for half the day, what does this have to do with democracy? Instead, we must make certain improvements and negotiate them. We did this. We're ringing and negotiating with this coalition. [[It was in favour of the Greens as well as of representatives of SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Strache: You were at home that day!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] No, no, no, This is one of the cores of democracy: not to be offended in the Winkerl and then to lament, but to actually work here in the house. But they are obviously neither capable nor willing to negotiate and work seriously here in the house. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I would like to say two more words on the negotiations. We have here a whole bunch of laws, which are available today for decision-making, in different quality. One of them will certainly introduce a new era from our point of view, from my point of view and from the point of view of the population, I think: There is something like a fundamental right for every citizen, every citizen, to know how democracy is financed. The last months have rightly come up with suspicion that those who have resources that have money, whether they are companies or banks, can simply buy laws. That is the worst thing that can happen in a democracy, and that will be abolished with today's day! It's no longer possible. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It is a very essential progress in Austrian democracy that this ignorance, which is being sponsored and promoted by dark channels, in an intransparent way, is abolished by today's day. And this is essentially a merit – and I say this with pride – also of the Green Group in this House. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This would not have been possible without the Green Group. In 1987 the first request of the Greens, Wabl and Petrovic, was made. He was rejected at the time – by SPÖ, ÖVP and FPÖ by the way. That was 1987. This transparency package has been reached and negotiated until the last second, and in many areas improvements have been made until the end, and I can say that with fug and law: 90 percent of them are absolutely good and fine. The former President of the Court of Auditors, President Fierce, also expressed respect for this achievement and said that from his point of view it is a “good”, that is, in the school language a “two”. On the other hand, what the FPÖ has negotiated, namely the Lobbyist Act, he has meant that the paper is not worth what it is written about. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] Once you imagine what that is: There is now a lobbyist register that is not publicly available. – I think we can give up on this. [[New condolences with the greens.]] I would also like to talk about party financing. Full transparency! Against the background that in the election years, for example, in the 2006 election year alone, almost €17 million were donated by the Industrial Union and by the trade unions to probably two parties of this House – I do not know, with certainty – – that is more than the total state party funding in one year! – it will now be abolished and abandoned. This is an essential consequence of the work in the Committee of Inquiry, in the fight against corruption, where many Members of this House cooperate properly. It is also a parliamentary success. Now a few sentences on the promotion of the party: If you honestly and openly report the negotiations, Mr Klubobmann Strache, then you have to admit one thing: FPÖ had already agreed to an increase in the funding of the party of €5 million. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the FPÖ.]] - Yes, that's the truth. That's what you're talking about, Mr. Kickl. [[Abg. Strache: You're really traumatized!]] I would like to make our position clear again. In principle: I and the Greens stand for public party funding. That's absolutely all right. However, I also believe that the funding of the parties in Austria is absolutely sufficient at the moment. We were always against an increase until today. I also find it unacceptable that this will be done now. [[Abg. Strache: That's why you're making the robbers today!]] I would also like to say one more way towards SPÖ and ÖVP: Since 2009, the promotion of the parties has been gradually shortened – minus 20 percent. These were massive cuts. We've held on to that. The Greens are now free of debt. And if we always have the discussion in this House on the subject of over-the-ratio life, non-economic skills, I have to ask myself why this savings rate, which the parties have all contributed in recent years, has not been taken into account! We did this. I would also have expected the ÖVP to be able to manage and tighten the much-conjured belt. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] However, the fact is that the FPÖ has agreed to an increase of €5 million, and I say it completely precisely – if country subsidies are reduced in return. - That's the truth. You can question witnesses. Is it true, by the way, what the ORF reported on the weekend in the “Hohes Haus” show that FPÖ has intervened that foreign donations should continue to be permitted? Why don't you talk about your travels, where you'll be shown by any dictators and then say in retrospect, it's all right anyway, no one's going to be tortured anyway! – What to have You made them there in Chechens? Collecting money? Well, that would interest me once too. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Strache: Just like you from Gaddafi certainly don't!]] But we can also talk about it again. [[Abg. Strache: It is proven that the green paper was sponsored by Gaddafi!]] I believe that the increase in the promotion of parties is unacceptable, absolutely unacceptable – I say so. But you have to be aware of one thing: Without the massive negotiation of the Greens, there would be no transparency package today or not in this form. There would be a watered FPÖ package, like a comic lobbyist law. [[Abg. You were at no trial! You have no idea what you're talking about!]] I'll tell you a little bit about the negotiations, because that's perhaps just worth knowing for the people: How long have the negotiations taken when it was about the side-by-side income of Members? It was a matter that agreed to the FPÖ today. It took exactly 30 seconds. The only thing the FPÖ wanted to know was: Are the Members who are also lawyers, except, yes or no? Mr Fichtenbauer, please confirm that this is the truth, you know that. – SPÖ and ÖVP say, okay, then let's take it out, and that's why the case for the FPÖ has been done! [[Live calls to the FPÖ.]] Look, you're so excited now. Please stop! [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] It won't help you if you're so upset. You have the word anyway. It won't help you. Please don't wake up like this, it's the truth! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] I just want to describe this once again: Where FPÖ is going today, it is not worth the paper on which it is written after my or our assessment, but that is the assessment of the former President of the Court of Auditors. There, where the Greens have negotiated the majority today, are the excellent laws; that is indisputable, you can ask the external question. Ask Sickinger, ask me at the end of the day! All right, all right. [[Abg. Strache: It is nice that this embarrassment is rereadable in the stenographic protocol!]] Let me perhaps come to an end, without screaming, please, if it goes somehow! [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign again.]] In conclusion: I believe that in Austria something has become very important, namely that politics has consequences from misunderstandings. That's something quite relevant. That is to say, withdrawal culture when mistakes are made; that is to say, consequences when corruption accusations occur in politics. And today there are some very good consequences here. There is something like a restart in this area. I think you have to pay for that. In this sense I also say thank you to the negotiators, also from ÖVP and SPÖ, who have moved very much, had to move by the way. – Mr. Kopf looked tormented, but it was. - You have to honor that. A thank you also to the Federal Chancellery for the negotiations. It will start a new era now. – Mr Westenthaler, be a bit objective! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: But you are not better!]] The new law is clearly better than what was previously – before that was nothing. Previously, all you did was: Just take and plug 300 000 € as a party. This is no longer possible in the future. [[Congratulations with the greens as well as with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] This will be made transparent. And you're gonna have to pay one million for it now. You will have to pay 1 million € in the future if that is not transparent what you take as BZÖ. So, is the situation better or worse now? I would like your self-evaluation! [[Inter-calls at the BZÖ.]] No, we reject the lobbyist law. It's weak. We also reject this weak system with regard to Members' by-catches. Together with you, we decide to intensify the right of corruption. These are precisely these things, such as the Strasser and Grasser cases, that a finance minister may be invited to a yacht from a banker – that is no longer possible in the future. Also, a politician like Mr Strasser in the European Parliament takes money from a lobbyist in return for the introduction of a bill is no longer possible. That is punishable now, and that is all progress. If you go out here and talk all of this bad, I don't know; then you have to be explained to you again, I think, good and evil. But this is simply objectively understandable an improvement for the citizen and the citizen in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00163_d7e4522	Mr Klubobmann Bucher. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00163_d7e4544	Madam President. Mrs Glawischnig, Member of the European Parliament! They have just accused themselves of being responsible for double the funding of the parties in Austria. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: You didn't listen!]] You would still have the opportunity to correct that in the Minutes. But this was a clear statement from you, in which you assume all the responsibility that taxpayers will have to pay twice as much taxes in the future so that the parties in Austria can be financed. This is your outcome from the negotiations. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The only positive thing about all these laws is that the anti-corruption law is re-corrected. There was an error in 2009. There are individual political groups, taken out. We've always been committed to correcting this. This has now been corrected, so we will also agree, because we are convinced that, in view of all the incidents, it must be in our interest that certain rules exist and that we protect individual politicians who cannot be excluded from the outset from making any mistakes. There is a clear no from our side to the Lobbyist Law, because it is exactly what we have feared: For commercial lobbyists, strict rules will be introduced – they will have to report everything in the future: Lobbying goals, lobbying activities, everything is to log – but those to which we have actually gone, that is, past the parties, the groups of interests, the chambers, the Chamber of Commerce, the Chamber of Workers, those lobbyists have been left outside. They do not need to report on what lobbying goals they want to achieve, what measures they are taking in terms of lobbying. The Chambers have already achieved a first lobbying success with this law, in that they will not be affected in the future, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] That is why we will reject it. Ladies and gentlemen! We have been discussing for some time the way forward at European level. Mrs Financiers are constantly presenting us with a report on the situation of our budget. It is not until last week that we discussed the fact that unemployment figures are going up, that economic performance is going down, that although tax revenue can still be kept at a moderate level, we in Austria as a whole lack the money for the really important measures and investments: in education, families, research and development and innovation. And against this background, ladies and gentlemen of the government and the Greens, you have the insolence to double the promotion of parties in Austria! [[Abg. Dr. Moser: That's not true at all!]] It's a shame! [[BZÖ and FPÖ are welcome.]] If you look at this once, with the exception of the electoral cost refund, the promotion of the party per year is €29.1 million. [[the speaker shows a bar chart with the title: “Parties promotion federal level per year”]] Previously, it was €15.2 million. This is what comes out when red-black and green develop a regulation and a law. [[Intervocations with SPÖ, ÖVP and Greens.]] Whenever the Greens are involved, it will be expensive for taxpayers, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ and FPÖ are welcome.]] [[Calls to the Greens.]] One sees this in individual federal states; and the “Ober-Democrats Party”, the Greens, have no interest at all in the fact that the people are involved and can decide something. This is the most expensive million show without audience jokers you decide here, ladies and gentlemen of the Greens! So, never talk about any democratic improvements in our country again in the future, but lean back and think about what you decide to do with red and black here. [[BZÖ and FPÖ are welcome.]] [[Prolonged calls to the Greens.]] This is basically a rescue anchor for SPÖ and ÖVP. Because if you take the newspapers seriously, then you are pleading – red and black are pleaded. Basically, a lifeguard is stretched up for both of you, red and black, so you can still face the next elections. [[Intervocations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] In any case, it is a disaster and an insolence, which is apparent in that the taxpayers are constantly moving around in the pockets of the taxpayers and are demanding more and more money, although the taxpayers in our country are already being reduced to the maximum! It must be borne in mind that in Austria we already have the highest party promotion behind Japan, yet we do not calculate the doubling you want to decide here! The world's second highest party promotion must be kept in mind! Switzerland is a great democracy, also a party democracy, and Mr President, I should like to make a point of order, Mr President. In Austria, we have a five times as high party funding as in Switzerland. Five times as high! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: A madness!]] There you can already see what a stuffing horn is poured out here over the parties of red and black. A total of €200 million per year, ladies and gentlemen, on all levels – community, country, federal government – for the parties! €200 million, calls us Mr. Dr. Sickinger. And that's the insanity that can definitely be fought. Today you also have your head at your colleague's – also good for your birthday! – considering what you understand under a party democracy. [[Abg. Head nods thanking]] That's quite clear today. Not a party democracy, but: All power the parties! That's your intention, that's your understanding. I just remember the Fauxpas that happened to you at the EU elections. You've clearly seen what party understanding you live in. The ÖVP has been strong in the EU's elections for the European Union, where Mr Strasser has sent a top-ranking candidate to the race; the second place, Karas, has received 100 000 preferential votes, but had to take place behind Strasser. That is exactly the opposite of direct democracy. Their voters wanted to take a different line. You've ignored this by just submitting everything to the party. The party has decided to have Strasser go to Brussels and become Head of Delegation there. That's your understanding of democracy! This is a practical example of how you deal with democracy. [[BZÖ and Abg. Bitch.]] The absolute summit of fragility is that the federal states will get even more in the future, four times as much as the federal parties: €22 per vote, while the federal parties receive €4 per vote. Five times as much! And that, ladies and gentlemen, although we know anyway what this federalism costs us and what it actually brings us, the countries hardly have any legislative powers in our country and they are pulverizing the money in a sinister administration. There you should take the courage on the side of the heads of the federal states of red and black, and finally take the money out of your hands, because what you have done about red and black, is: They again went to their knees before Mr. Häupl and Mr. Pröll. Mr Pröll now has a "Pröll-filled" election box for the election campaign next spring in Lower Austria, which will ensure a anniversary of the princes of the country. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: But the country owes!]] And you are nothing but a Federal Government tolerated by a Mr Pröll and a Mr. Häupl. This is clearly reflected in these decisions. And the chamber organizations are not included, we're always just talking about the parties. In the chambers so much money is heard and then also used for the election struggles that no one can control, where there is no account of these sums we are talking about here, of the € 29 million per year. That is, there is still a lot to be done if you include the Chamber of Labour and the Chamber of Commerce. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! Mr Cap has said that we should give up the extra money. We will not do this because, unlike the Federal Government, we are investing this money in the clarification of the acts you are planning for the Fiscal Union, for the ESM, for the Banking Union ahead. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The living evidence is that we are making an event by the BZÖ tonight in the evening, a panel discussion with experts on the subject: [[keeping an invitation card up to date with its image on it]] [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Head ban!]] What is the impact of the European Stability Mechanism on the Austrian Republic? – with Markus Kerber, Thomas Ramb and Ronald Barazon. This is a measure that the Federal Government is actually doing well, and you should put your initiatives on the question of the impact of the European Stability Mechanism. We'll take care of your work. That should actually be your responsibility. We will not agree to this increase in the promotion of parties. This is a depriving measure for taxpayers.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00163_d7e4730	Mr Faymann is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00163_d7e4752	Madam President. Dear Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! [[The speaker drives on the microphone.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Slow down!]] Mr Bucher, I don't know why you're always yelling with us. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Because it's annoyed!]] Is that so necessary in your club? Is that the only way to get in touch? But if I have two points to answer to your arguments, I say: 15.2 million plus 100 percent are 29.1, on your Taferl. – Aha, are you convinced that 15.2 million plus 100 percent are 29.1?- Oh, my God! Aha! Well, I hope you didn't count on the hypo. [[Abg. May. Stefan: A great “argument”!]] [[Call the FPÖ:Chapeau!]] [[It was a case of SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Cheerfulness of the speaker.]] [[Abg. May. Stefan: How much is it? Only 97,4? Great!]] Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in fact I personally appreciate the compliments of Herbert Sickinger, who speaks of a great throw, very much because it comes from someone and also from other experts who have made assessments that have been pointing out for many years that, when we look through reports by GRECO, we have had a need to compare our legal provisions with Europe. [[Abg. Petzner: It's Hubert Sickinger, not Herbert!]] A few months ago, it has already been tried to reach a compromise here in this House, which brings us to the top – not one where we continue to stay behind, but one that brings us to the top in Europe under the Party Law, the Contracting Restriction Act, the Incompatibilities Act, the Lobbying Act, and the Enforcement of Corruption Law. It was not yet possible to adopt this law a few months ago. Only the common will and the joint effort in hard negotiations have led us to present these proposals today in such a way that they also receive a sufficient majority. I would like to thank Josef Ostermayer, the coalition partner, especially the colleague's head, but of course especially the Green Group. [[Abg. Grosz: Nice, if he thanks the climber! Flower still missing!]] It is certainly much more difficult for an opposition party, but you, the two other opposition parties, have chosen the easier way. [[Abg. Grosz: What do they get?]] First of all, they have insisted on saying that we must finally do something to get back to the negotiations quickly. [[Call the FPÖ:Haven't you been careful?]] The more constructive way for our country is the right one, and for that I have to thank myself. And I do that in the sense of many Austrians who have already waited for these laws to be finally passed. [[It was a case of SPÖ and ÖVP.]] You've been discussing for years and you've always found something that you don't want to handle. Something has come about here, which is of importance. [[Abg. Grosz:! And that with the support of the Greens!]] Now everyone knows that laws alone are not yet a guarantee that there can be no errors, mistakes, conscious and unconscious of individuals, of political leaders. But the fact that there is such a thing as glass cash, where one sees it, the fact of transparency that one knows how to finance election campaigns in this Republic, how parties finance who supports with what sums, is already important for the assessment of the programme and the way in which politicians and parties act. This should also give citizens an insight into how a party is financed and whether, according to its own assessment, it is related to the policy it represents. This transparency is also intended to create some confidence, because transparency is, at least, creating distrust. Therefore, the opposite way of creating confidence is the right one. [[Abg. Kickl: Be careful!]] I, the one responsible for the Federal Government with its colleagues, also thanked me at the parliamentary level for the fact that this is happening today, because without the Austrian Parliament and the majority, so many good ideas and so many good proposals could be discussed. The fact that we are making arrangements for July, which will not be postponed to the long-term bank, is a merit of many in this House. I thank you for that – and I am convinced that it was and is an important step – but not for the fact that there is no longer any error – this step, you know as well as I do, is a fairy tale that does not exist – but rather for creating a solid, good, acceptable basis for transparency, for control and, if something does not work, for sanctions. In this sense: a warm thank you!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00163_d7e4947	Mr Wittmann has now come to speak. In this round, each speaker has 7 minutes of speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00163_d7e4979	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! In principle, I believe that this is a law that can be seen throughout Europe and that the other laws relating to it also mean a real step forward in order to keep clear and transparent. Many comments have repeatedly pointed out that there is a lack of transparency in the Party Finance Act, the lack of the corruption provisions of Members, the lack of lobbyist provisions and the lack of transparency rules for the disclosure of Members' salaries. Now we've settled that. It may be that it is not satisfactory for everyone, but of all these regulations that have been made here, of four laws, it is a regulation that forms the main core. And I think this is wrong, because what does this transparency law say? First of all, we have succeeded in implementing the definition of terms in the Party Financing Act. When one tries to define “donations”, to define “insects”, to define “sponsoring”, all these things, where we have been accused of not being clearly defined and thus not clearly explanatory, one has to say that these definitions have been successful. After that, a section has been held in which there are many regulations, which is permitted and what is not allowed and how this is recorded. Then comes a whole chapter of accounts that go down to the districts and further down into every party structure, so that all that is in any form constitutes a legal entity in our sense. So to say that anything is not regulated is simply wrong. Among other things, one has formed a corridor for party financing. That's the only point you're really attacking and dramatizing here. What is more important is transparency, what happens and what may happen to the money. Can you get some extra money? Under what rules can one do that? But to act as if a democracy could come out without party funding – there is no such thing in Europe! Again: There is no such thing in Europe! And I warn against the American system, where large corporations afford to do Members who are, of course, obliged to do what the companies want. So I think this system is the wrongest system that exists at all if you are exclusively obliged to give the money. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Therefore: You won't get out without party funding. It is somehow such a predicament that, of course, comes well in the public, because it is just so that we parties do not have the best standing. That's cheap. It is much more important to me that such campaigns, such as Jörg Haider, at the time still as a FPÖ man, should fly in with the helicopter anyone paid him, or stage other performances where no one knew who would pay them and who was behind them. [[Abg. Vilimsky: Who pays the chancellor's feast?]] Such a thing should be discontinued, but not the hunger of the parties and the dependence on private payments. That cannot be our concept of democracy. It can't be! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It cannot be true that in politics only those with money are delivered. Therefore: It must also be admitted that party promotion is a means of our democracy here in Europe, and not just in America, but also in the United States, by the fact that politicians have to put money into private money, in order to represent exclusively the interests of those who give the money. That is why there is no representation of the “little man” who keeps on the track. I reject this system! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ing. Hofer.]] Yes, I'm on the promotion of the party! Yes, I say so too! But so hypocritical to do, we don't need to promote parties – of course, if you put up such things as Haider, that you get money from Libya, do you really want it in the future? Do you want to keep that going? This is inconceivable if you glorify this other system, so to speak, and here by the BZÖ of Halvation and what I know and more donations and more private talk. [[Abg. May. Stefan: Donation ban! Donation ban!]] High house! We then deliver to a few of us in this Republic, probably still money from abroad. It is regulated here that this should no longer happen. And that's what I'm standing for. I think these laws are good.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00163_d7e5092	Next, Mr Magistrate. Gerstl speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00163_d7e5113	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Dear Members of the Federal Government! Let's get the emotions down a little! Let's come to the facts! ==References== May, party expert Dr. Sickinger said: “If the ÖVP really wants to start a discussion about what arrangements and at what level the countries and the federal government should promote the parties, then it is most likely that the reform will be postponed to St. Nimferlestag.” Not even two months have passed, and we are presenting here a package of transparency, which is exemplary. [[Abg. Dr. Strutz: Speed kills!]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the ÖVP.]] – Don’t ask yourself the haxl, Mr. Colleague. It was interesting in today's discussion that we obviously talked more about which opposition party was right now and which did not rightly agree to a government proposal. [[Abg. Kickl: We haven't agreed yet! Maybe we'll still think about it!]] Let us therefore stick to the overall package! We have presented an overall package on corruption law here. Members shall be officials in their country of origin and shall be subject to strict criminal law provisions on impurity. Today, we have presented a lobbyism transparency law, with which a lobbying ban is granted to officials and in which the honourable Member now makes a general ban on payable lobbying. We have tabled a comprehensive law of incompatibility, to which I would like to go a little further, so that the spectators can also know what will be no longer possible for mandates in the future or what they have to do. First: All management functions in stock companies, in GesmbHs, in foundations are subject to reporting. Secondly, All activities arising from a service relationship, professional activity or self-employed activity must be announced. Thirdly, All income levels must be announced in five stages: up to 1 000 €, up to 3 500 €, up to 7 000 €, up to 10 000 € and over 10 000 €. The average monthly gross income shall be reported, each up to 30. June of the following year. However, not only income must be announced, but it must also be announced that there are executive activities, because there can also be incompatibilities. That too is to be made clear. And we decide what most of the speakers have already referred to today, including the Party Law. I would like to say one more thing about the party law: Mr Strache has said that he is not in favour of his own request that we should refrain from increasing the funding for federal parties, because the money could then be allocated to the other parties. Mr. Strache, we can really help you. We can help you formulate the law in such a way as to keep the money in the pot, stay with the taxpayer and not continue to be spent. You have it in your hand to simply say you reduce your funding as a federal party. You can do this any time. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] Just like you, Mr Bucher, you have no reason to say that you have to accept the money. You can do it differently, too. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Kickl: Do it!]] It is also extremely exciting, ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ, that you are now voting against an election cost limit, because this is also set out in the Party Promotion Act. We decide on 7 million election cost upper limit. - Why are you against it? This is particularly interesting because you accept this 7 million ceiling under the Federal Presidential Election Act. Why Accept You have this border in a election to the Federal President, but why not accept it when it comes to a National Council election? – Unfortunately, I cannot follow this logic, ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ! [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] Because you obviously have funds you don't want to announce? Because you obviously want to spend more money than the other parties? They compete here in “Who can spend more money?” and we are not ready by the coalition parties and the Greens too. We are limiting the costs of the election, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] They also wanted to remove the lawyers from the Lobbyist Act, and they refer to the highest party promotions in those federal states in which the FPÖ is the strongest, namely in Vienna and in Carinthia. You've never made any excuses that you might be able to reduce party funding in Carinthia. They have never made an accusation that one might be able to reduce the promotion of parties in Vienna. There you use yourself very clearly, and therefore you measure with varying degrees, your credibility is absolutely questionable. Or do you want to have an endless loan from your party academy again? Are you also opposed to the Party Promotion Act because this is also excluded in the future? Ladies and gentlemen! We now adopt one of the most comprehensive rules in the field of transparency, one of the best regulations internationally. As follows all the recommendations on the financing of the Council of Europe's parties in the course of the GRECO report, which were identified by the group to combat corruption. All eleven recommendations from GRECO are in line with our transparency package. Ladies and gentlemen! I assume that the bill you have made to the public that the parties will receive more money will not vote in the future, in any way. This won't happen in any way. We will have a distribution from the country level to the federal level, we will have a distribution that will lead to harmonisation, which we have all along wanted: that the per capita distribution at the national level of the per capita distribution will be aligned at the federal level, ladies and gentlemen! That is, I assume that the corridor that the countries have at their disposal will no longer be a leader in the future, but that in the future every single federal state will deal responsibly with the promotion of the parties. Therefore, there will not be more money for the parties in the future, but I assume that the increased transparency arrangements will result in us spending less money for the parties in the future. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] Finally, I thank you for the transparency arrangements – this is a quantum leap towards transparency, a quantum leap in prevention from corruption and a quantum leap for modern democracy.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00163_d7e5225	Mr Kickl is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00163_d7e5246	Madam President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, especially of SPÖ, ÖVP and Greens, you can wind up here like the proverbial Aale – that is to say to you – and you can act like a would-be-houdini with its detachment skills, this law which you present today, the party law as part of the transparency package, remains what it is, a mogel pack remains widest and in important parts as regards the so-called transparency matter, and it remains a shameless increase and a shameless grip on the pockets of Austrian taxpayers in view of increasing public party funding, ladies and gentlemen! [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] [[Abg. Dr. Moser: You can't distinguish herb and beet again!]] You can, if you don't believe me, Mrs Moser, read about your party's old progress – Voggenhuber's name is the Lord whom you threw out, because he also told you that there is nothing to do with you – this Mr Voggenhuber has told you what this law is: a flower! [[Abg. Dr. Moser: That's not true, we didn't throw him out!]] A Bluff, he said. We call it a fog grenade, we call it a bill that has built up dead corners and blind spots. I don't think – as well as I know him – that Colleague Kogler has done this, but that's already master plan red/green with black ministress, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This is how the green road looks into the headquarters of power in this country, ladies and gentlemen! If You want to sell this transparency package today as – what does that mean? – a vessel closed in itself, then it reminds me of the attempt to subjure the wire structure of a canary bird of the Austrian population as something that is light-tight, air-tight and soundproof. This is about the same company: selling a canary cage as a dense vessel. No one in this republic will take that from you. But the state of this transparency law is so over many parts, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Or – so that the rulers of the SPÖ also understand, in particular colleague herbs –: This law, which you are presenting, is as transparent and as comprehensible as the biography of the Federal Chancellor between 1978 and 1985, that is not at all, ladies and gentlemen. So much about transparency: A huge black hole we have here, like there! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Now we come to the part where public party funding is concerned. I have already said that this is a shameless grip in the pockets of taxpayers, a robbery if you want to do so, an attack on taxpayers in the form of an increase of 60 percent. 145 million now cost the entire plant for a period, for five years, instead of as before 89 million. – For you, Federal Chancellor! And now it's coming! This attack is not only supported by SPÖ and ÖVP – we did not expect anything else anyway – but there are three tank crackers at work: red, black and green. That's the point, the greens are there! Mr. Van der Bellen will know that, I have read more: The tankcrackers at Donald Duck are called Ede, Max and Otto, here they are called Josef, Eva and Karlheinz. These are the three crackers in connection with the plundering of the taxpayer for an unfrozen increase in public party financing. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Moser: You don't get it!]] That's exactly what we warned about: The greens are the handlebars in this escape vehicle, they are lubrications, they help to blur the traces, and they were of course involved in removing the bank. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: The lubrication is you because you can't read!]] This is the green contribution to this increase in public party funding! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Now you come with the reproach by saying: These are two laws! One is the framework law, an empowerment law – which you will probably issue, however, that be without you – the second is the simple legal regulation, in which the increase is included. - No, that's wrong! Mr Kogler knows that very well, we do not want to ask Mrs Glavischnig to do so, she was never there, and otherwise not too much interest in these things, as we have seen, otherwise you could not go into a few simple materials in the way she did before. No, no, it's about that part you decide to do. Now we will see how the Greens are tricking in this area and working with back doors, ladies and gentlemen! The first part of the green fraud, decided by you, looks like this: At that time, we received a refund of the election costs, which all the parties have received for the 2008 National Council election, for a full five years. Now the Greens decide that from 1st century onwards. By the end of this period, the corresponding proportion of these election costs can be collected a second time. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: Don't talk so stupid!]] – Double-cashing, ladies and gentlemen, we call this something! This double-cashing is an increase. – First part, and the greens are there. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: That's not true!]] Second part of this fraud: It is said that what is added to the covenant and more is distributed in Upper Austria and Vienna. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brosz.]] – The problem is only the following: that the part being deducted, this reduction in Upper Austria and in Vienna – by the way everywhere the Greens in government responsibility – only starting from the 1st century. January of next year will be saved, but the increase will be approved from 1st. July this year, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Dr. Moser: That's not true, you'll see for yourself afterwards!]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Six months double-cashed! – So much for green honesty and the non-increasing of party promotion; all two-thirds matter. Then there is a third component of green fraud. That's what they're explaining.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00163_d7e5434	Mr Kickl, I am interrupting you now! This is the third time that you are going to impose a criminal offence on the honourable Member, that is to say, fraud, and I am giving you a call for order for it.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00163_d7e5464	I take note of this call for order. Nevertheless, it remains what it is, even if I can no longer pronounce it, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Moser: You are such a liar!]] The third component: It is explained to the population that a reimbursement of election costs has been paid up to now, should apply for five years, we now count together, then split it up and give it to normal party funding. . But you do not say that you are paying out this amount, which was valid for five years, in three years and filling out the gap of two years again. This means an increase of 40 per cent of the election cost refund, colleague Glavischnig! Perhaps Mr Kogler or Mr Brosz didn't tell you. You have been too two-way in the negotiations, so that if one remembers perhaps green principles, the other can say that the trail towards the government is perhaps more important than the memory of the green principles that you step with feet, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That's the point: You're bought! [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] Never turn to the speaker's desk here again, to say that you have nothing to do with increasing party funding! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brosz.]] You are the co-operator of this praiseless and this disgraceful file, Mr Brosz, you lead!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00163_d7e5545	Mr Mag. Kogler is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00163_d7e5567	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, the core of this package: That's a big throw! If we deal separately with the Party Promotion History and once we focus on what was the task, namely anti-corruption control and transparency, then at the heart of the matter – that is what all the experts told us – is most won when we reach the disclosure of the party donations. Now I quote for this area today’s issue “Small Newspaper”, Interview Sickinger: “That’s a big throw already.” I will then say something more, but for the time being, on the more or less humorous statements made by the previous speakers of FPÖ and BZÖ. This was to be feared, however, if, by the way, due to the idea of Mr. Landscap of Lower Austria, we have to refresh these materials; we now have to discuss public funding and disclosure together. Thank God for splitting this up legally, and I am on the point once. I too now do not care about the regulatory call practice here in the house, because it has to be said what has to be said: It's obviously stylistics here that you stand here and tell the truth against better knowledge from these negotiations – that's just so – and lie straight ahead. [[Abg. Head: The “Truth ”? The untruth!]] [[Abg. Grosz: If you say the truth against better knowledge!Unknown term type: "%s".?]] – You know exactly that I meant the untruth! The point is exactly that: These parts, which are decided here in the Transparency Act, have a single link to public party promotion, namely the definition of this corridor, and this corridor does not lead exactly to an increase in the promotion of the parties at the lower level, but covers at least two federal states above, and these are Upper Austria and Vienna. You rightly pointed out earlier: Yes, the Greens agree with a part of the Constitution, which leads to a reduction in party funding where greens govern, exactly in these two federal states! I think that's credible. That's it! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] If you address the promotion of parties on a simple legal, federal level, I do not understand the German Government or this separate request on the spot, especially since one even dares to go beyond that, at the end – and that is why we have split it off, one has to say it honestly and openly – probably to do more at the federal level than is shortened among the countries. I would add that it would be quite a worthwhile debate in the long term to get a harmonisation there. But that's a very different question. In the short term, it is insensitive and not to accept that this is being increased. That's why our attitude is as follows: We will vote by name according to § 66 para. In order to achieve the necessary number of Members, we would like to invite the BZÖ colleagues to join this request. I have the form here. You can then sign all of them, and then maybe that will stop with this untruth spreading. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] One last only to the parties BZÖ and FPÖ: You know, Mr Bucher, you have really managed – and there is something to do about it once again; at least as far as I am concerned – to distort the facts in such a way! And this comes from an observer of a party who has himself in truth and proved himself under the lifeguard of Telekom and what else do I know from whom he has fled! That's not going to work out anymore. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] You provoked this qualification. You and your former party leader, Haider, were always in the middle of it instead of just outside, when it came to holding their hands somewhere to put money in! [[Abg. Petzner: That's a fool!]] That is why it is also so important – this also to the FPÖ address – that at last the acceptance of donations from abroad from €2 500 will be prohibited at all. It's totally unclear to this day where you've always packed up these many fifty million, with which you've driven campaigns and harassed the public with your then blue and now orange spectacles. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Riepl: (a.k.a. Petzner clearly) See how he smiles!]] In this direction the same is true. That is why – and now we come to the very core of the matter – it is so important that certain donations are banned – this is achieved exemplaryly for Europe – and that other donations that are allowed must be disclosed. That is the core of this agreement! And there is a common success: that voters can know who is turning something to. This is essential in party democracy. And party democracy will not only have its place, but it will still be needed for a long time, in all the changes to more democracy that will exist here, which we support in part – at least the parliamentary, and that is also a strong party democracy in Austria. If that is the case, then we must make sure that we have very clear rules, and today Parliament itself, as it were, is actually giving itself some good regulations. On the things that are negative, I would just like to say that we do not agree exactly where the regulations are negative from our point of view, for example on certain issues in the lobbyist law. This can essentially be done as a whole, but there will still be explanations. It is also interesting that the FPÖ is always there, where it is depleted and where there is no transparency – where it gets serious, it goes out! The FPÖ was against the Electoral Cost Limitation, it was against the criminal provisions. – So I don’t know what your show is good for here, except to fog, and we won’t let you go through it anymore! By the way, it is a pity that you have tried to stage a match between the opposition parties, where it has actually succeeded, through the work in the Committee of Inquiry, to bring the government fractions – not only on our own understanding, of course – that at last this is done, for which we have even fought together for a long time to achieve an exemplary, in many areas the strictest disclosure law in Europe! [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign]] All those who have contributed to it are grateful to you not to put that under the carpet. Many have gone a long way, but now a goal has been achieved – and that should be said.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00163_d7e5696	Mr Mag. Kogler, you will, of course, receive an order call for your statement and submission “lying”. The next item is the speech by Mr Petzner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00163_d7e5731	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! It is relatively simple, Mr Kogler! We are also in favour of stricter transparency provisions, we have also very well negotiated, but we do not allow ourselves to buy more stringent transparency provisions, unlike you, by doubling party funding at the expense of taxpayers. That is the crucial point! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[The speaker places a panel on which the counterfee of Alfonso Mensdorff-Pouilly can be seen, with the title “ÖVP – the future of tradition – innocence is a value from Austria – If you bravely tackle it, the state must not put bureaucratic obstacles in the way of it”, on the speaker’s desk.]] We also want such rulers – by the way perhaps soon the new ÖVP plan, “Future from tradition – innocence is a value from Austria” with Alfons Mensdorff-Pouilly on it – to no longer finance illegal parties with any flu protection masks and other transactions at the expense of taxpayers, but again: [[pointing to the panel]] We cannot buy this off by increasing the promotion of the parties! If Mr. Bundeskanzler already quotes Mr. Sickinger, I will bring another quote from Mr. Sickinger, who just a few days ago explained that with this doubling of the promotion of the party Austria will become European champions in terms of the promotion of parties. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Moser.]] No other country within Europe has promoted more parties than Austria by this law, and to this massive increase, to this sad European Championship title, the Greens have made a significant contribution to the fact that this law is at all achieved, so that we will certainly not agree in this form, ladies and gentlemen! [[New call for tender Dr Moser]] [[The speaker was tearing down a document from which he had previously read.]] It was decisive – and I can now quote another APA report – that the session and the round of negotiations of 24. ==References== The cubes have already fallen at this meeting. We from the BZÖ have always said that we want to make more stringent transparency rules and we want the transparency law to be juncified with the new Party Finance Act, we want to negotiate this together, because only by ensuring that the government does not cross the opposition by simple majority. This is also stated in this APA message – quote –: [[the speaker reads from a document]] “The BZÖ intends to negotiate the new rules for party donations together with the new rules on the promotion of the party, thereby achieving a reduction in the amount of public funding” – negotiating position BZÖ. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Steinhauser.]] Now comes the negotiating position of the Greens: “The Greens do not want to do so,” “that the disclosure of the party donations will be speeded up with the promotion of the public parties”. [[Call the Greens: Right!]] The FPÖ has also argued – quote –: ‘FPÖ is also opposed to a link between the promotion of parties and the disclosure of party donations.’ And that was the problem. The task of the junkimizing the re-regulation of party promotion with the transparency provisions by green and blue has made this increase possible at all today, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Interlocutory calls from Deputies Mag. Kogler and Dr. Moser.]] The BZÖ was the only party that said she didn't play with it. That means, if you're honest, you also have to say: This is not just a red-black-green increase, but a red-black-green-blue increase, which is being decided here today, ladies and gentlemen! It is also important that people at home know this. Let's see – if the greens have already bought it out – what remains of the green demands! The green throttles always present written negotiating papers, which are practical in so far as one can control afterwards what is left of these green positions. Let's start! Mr Kogler, first point in the donation – quote –: [[the speaker reads from a document]] ‘There shall be no derogation from the concept of donations for grants from certain institutions or institutions.’ [[Call the Greens:Bravo! Great!]] ‘In particular, any grant of voluntary interest or professional associations () to political parties must be considered as a donation’. [[Demonstrative applause and bravoruf des Abg. May. Steinhauser.]] [[Further calls to the Greens.]] Is that in the law now? - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no! I'm reading to you literally what's in it. [[Abg. Oils: Reading! Read it!]] This was the green demand: no derogation for voluntary representations of interests. And now I'm reading to you what the donation concept says – listen carefully! –: ‘Not to be regarded as a donation () grants from professional and economic associations and other voluntary representations of interests.’ [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grosz.]] This means that black on white is proven: The Greens have called for this, the opposite is inside – the first negotiating position has been broken. Then write: “Donations to a party worth more than 500 euros should be published.” That was the green demand. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber.]] What's left of it, of 500 €? – Nothing is left, 3 500 € it has become – seven times as much as you have demanded! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Moser.]] Next example. Mr Kogler writes: ‘Detailed transparency schemes’ with regard to the disclosure of donations, advertisements and sponsorships ‘must also apply to district and municipal organisations of the parties’. What is left of this green demand? – Nothing is left! In the posthumous period, one has entered the districts with tiredness and need. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Kogler.]] Of your demand that community organisations should also be included, nothing is left. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Read meaningfully!]] Last example: Mr Kogler, under points 13 and 14, called for serious infringements of criminal law and for a criminal offence to be committed within it. Whoever reads this law now will see that nothing is left of this green demand, ladies and gentlemen! [[Call the Greens.]] That is, of a total of 14, 15 claims you made, you did not spend at least half. That's how the green success of the negotiations looks! [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Steinhauser.]] You have given up half of your own positions, and at the same time you make the green climbbar holder to increase the party promotion by more than double. Wonderful! I congratulate you very much! The voter will make his opinion on this and give you a very clear rejection, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Of course – and the greens have overlooked this again – was also installed some loophole. For example, it is striking that there are several provisions or sentences in which the rules do not apply to “services for the promotion of broadband”. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Kogler]] You've always taken that out. We already know exactly what is going to happen: Through all the black and red sports promotion associations – whether they are called ASKÖ or what I know as – you will carry out all these illegal financing in the future, because all these associations have been removed from this law. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] We know exactly what's going on, and we're going to take a look at that. The Greens have also given your consent to this loophole. We do not participate in these loopholes or in a doubling of the promotion of the party at this level – and to the Lord's head I can now give this poster; he knows the Lord very well who is on it. [[pointing to the panel on the speaker's desk]]
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00163_d7e5952	I'd like to see this poster, too. Mr Klubobmann, please allow me to take a look because I do not allow – from the Presidency – that we suddenly behave here as if we were in court. We are the legislator and do not have to condemn or condemn. That's what I'm holding. [[Abg. Head of the Bureau and President Mag. Prammer the Table.]] [[Abg. Petzner: stands “innocent” above!]] [[Abg. Grosz: Where is the problem on the poster?]] Next word comes Mrs. Federal Minister Dr. Karl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00163_d7e6003	Madam President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen on the government bank! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Today is actually a day when politics can prove that it is better than its reputation. I can recommend to you today two legislative proposals for decision-making, both of which mean a real social change in Austria. Both materials are milestones on the way to a new political culture. They will make decision-making processes more transparent and thus also contribute to the acceptance of the results. But democratically exemplary was also the way of their creation. Both laws are the result of a genuinely subject-oriented negotiation and a process of debate which was not aimed at a lukewarm compromise, but rather at developing and improving the drafts submitted. This negotiation process alone shows that politics in Austria is able – despite all ideological differences and despite all conflicts – to achieve solutions, namely solutions that serve citizens in this country and help citizens to regain confidence in politics and its representatives. High house! Part of the transparency package is also the lobbying law. It has now succeeded in providing the necessary transparency and clear framework conditions for the the creation of private and public interests in politics and administration. It is not about a ban on lobbying or the prevention of lobbying, but rather about creating really clear rules for lobbying. I mean, it would not be good for politics and administration, and politics and administration would be a bad advice if they didn't listen to anyone from the outside if they didn't hear outsiders in their decision-making processes. Interest should therefore not be prevented or prohibited, but it should be regulated. It should also be clear who represents what concerns in certain decision-making processes. To this end, I would like to stress very clearly: Lobbying and representing interests are nothing bad, but they must be transparent. That is the objective of our law, and it should be ensured with clear rules of conduct, with registration obligations and with appropriate sanctions that things are just going on openly and transparently. The first considerations to provide clear legal regulations in the field of lobbying and the representation of interests already have a longer history beyond individual occasions. With the lobbying law, we are now at the forefront of the international and European standards. We have come to a solution which does not cover up the relevant activities in this area but reveals them. We have come to a solution that not only provides for toothless publication obligations, but also corresponding, really bad – or say: really gripping – sanctions. And we found a solution that calls things by name and does not hide. It is quite natural that Parliamentary will-building in this area has also taken a long time. This draft law has found the right measure and the right way, namely between the interests of the private lobbying economy and those of the social partners and the collective interests, between the democratic policy concerns of openness and transparency and the fundamental secret interests guaranteed, and between the real conditions in politics and administration and the expectations and needs of the economy and the population. The lobbying law thus constitutes in its entirety a good compromise between quite opposite and opposite interests. It is now up to all parties concerned to interpret the legal framework in a reasonable and appropriate manner. The lobbying companies and interest groups are now called upon to develop appropriate codes of conduct that refine the legal basis and, so to speak, break down into practice. On the other hand, the Ministry of Justice will do everything possible to live up to the rules now to be decided. [[President Neugebauer shall take over the chairmanship.]] High house! Let me now also come to corruption law! The law of corruption has been a central concern to me since the beginning of my duties. From the very beginning, it was important for me to really come up with clarifications and intensifications in this area. I therefore strongly advocated the creation of provisions in this area which ensure maximum transparency and effectively prevent abuse of public powers. At the same time, however, the text had to be formulated so clearly that doubts about border crossing between permitted behaviour and unauthorised behaviour were avoided. Criminal law simply needs as a foundation a broad social consensus, a general acceptance of what is accepted in a society. that can and cannot be accepted in a society. What cannot be accepted in a society is also to be punished with the sharpest weapon, namely with the withdrawal of personal freedom. But if the boundaries between the permitted behavior and the criminally pomped behavior are blurred, then the feeding ground is created for what is so harmful in the area of corruption, namely, for this eye twinkling, for this armpit, combined with the loss of the necessary sense of propriety and ethics in the field of public office exercise. But one thing is also clear, my dear ones Ladies and gentlemen: Of course, criminal law cannot solve all the problems, although, of course, the dissuasive effect of high fines and fines cannot be neglected. But what we need, of course, is clear and understandable rules on criminal law. These are absolutely necessary in order to prevent corruption. Criminal law is also an expression of what is not to be accepted in a democratic and open society and cannot be accepted. This signal effect also needs to be seen in view of what the work of the prosecutors and the investigation committee has shown in recent days, weeks and months. High house! On the occasion of the deliberations in the Committee on Justice, I pointed out last week that I could not at all assess and know whether and how and when these proposals will really come to be implemented at the time of my proposals to strengthen the right to corruption. After all, I have also set a very ambitious goal of depriving myself of eight – out of ten – criticisms from the recommendations of the group of states on the persecution of corruption in a draft and thus creating a truly excellent standard for the fight against corruption in international comparison. I would also like to express my particular thanks to the chairman of the Committee on Justice and the leaders of the political groups in this committee. All of you have managed to create a result-oriented and constructive negotiating environment that, of course, also with the involvement of the Council of Independent Experts, has enabled us to work together to find the best solutions, namely solutions based on a broad consensus and thus not form the basis for a later debate on the importance of individual legislative concepts. In this climate, too, the resolution on the decision-making process, which clearly states that permanent law is being created by the now specified law on corruption. Let us now actually give the new law the opportunity to prove itself in reality, and we also rely on its proper application! This, of course, also depends – and I am aware of that – on the accuracy of what we give to the prosecutors and to the courts in order to interpret the new provisions in an opening decision. As the planned entry into force with 1. In January 2013, we have enough time to design this introduction permit accordingly. Of course, it is also important for the uniform application and interpretation of the national jurisdiction of the Public Prosecutor's Office. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to talk briefly about what is actually the key elements of the new right to corruption. I am particularly concerned about the full involvement of Members in the concept of officials, which in particular also leads to their full coverage of bribery offences. This will create an already existing To implement the UN Convention against Corruption, and at the same time we fulfil a commitment imposed on us by GRECO. However, there are also clear rules in the field of public enterprises – also in line with OECD criticism. Thus, the term of office will now also be extended to institutions and employees of public and public undertakings. [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign.]] Another important point is the withdrawal of the service law office. That is to say, it is no longer to be restricted to service law in the case of the acceptance of benefits by officials, because there is no right of service for some professional groups, such as for ministers, mayors or national leaders. It was also of course also important for me to make the necessary adjustments and clarifications in the area of so-called feeding. Although there is no international recommendation on feeding, it is very important, in my opinion, to create very clear rules. [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign again.]] We have departed from the context of a concrete business of office and in the future we will instead rely on the influence of the office. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, much remains to be said in detail about the individual intensifications and clarifications in the criminal law of corruption, but I would like to say once again that we have laid a foundation for more honesty and transparency in politics and administration, both with the lobbying law and with the intensifications in the area of corruption law. Now it is also important to live these values in politics and administration. Finally, I would like to thank you once again for the very constructive cooperation and would like this exemplary cooperation to continue in other judicial discussions and projects. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00163_d7e6127	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Jarolim. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00163_d7e6149	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Minister and Secretary of State! I believe that today it is really – and Mrs Bundesminister has implemented this very, very well and comprehensively, what the two laws are about – that we have succeeded in setting European standards with this transparency package, and that is what we should be proud of. I believe that it is no longer any less proof that Mr. Sickinger and Mr. Wijter have praised this package yesterday and on various occasions. We have really been able to go beyond European standards in this cooperation. It was not easy, it was a great discussion effort, but it was worth it, and we really have a demonstration project here. Austria has thus taken steps which will certainly not miss their role as a model in Europe. What I do not quite understand – Mr President Graf is not here now – is why we do not go about attacking and repairing the real evils when we face them in the face of these misdeeds, just so that something bad can be found in this law. A President of a National Council is not anyone, and if he is making a legal abuse by invoking a private foundation to an older, fragile lady, who is not very capable of God, so that he can bring all her money into the foundation in which he is then the President, and then he finds that she is really completely mediocre, then I actually think that this is a big problem, ladies and gentlemen, which we should address here. [[Intervoke by Deputies Dipl.-Ing. Deimek and Vock]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Deimek]] Mr Graf is not here now, but we, all five parties in common, will certainly have to resolve that. So if, for example, we hear – and Mr Fichtenbauer, you will be able to confirm this – that the following passage in this foundation document is in it, ladies and gentlemen, then you have to break this on the tongue: When the founder – that is, poor Mrs. Meschar – criticises the board of foundations – that is to say, the president of Graf and his friends – she loses the standard of the beneficiaries. [[Abg. Ing. Hofer: What does “Kumpane ” mean?]] [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Isn't that unscrupulous?! - That's unscrupulous, isn't it?]] So that means there's a pressure element. As soon as the old lady says something like this: I have doubts about my president, then you'll just turn off the money. – Ladies and gentlemen, this is unbearable! That's a worst expropriation, and I think you'll have to act there. Mr Strache, this is, of course, also a management problem. If you look out here today and talk about laws we've negotiated over half a year or three-quarters of a year you've always said: Yes, the 1st. It'll be July, but what year? Then I can tell you: We've got the 1. July 2012 now, although you have always – you personally not, but your club – expressed criticism. So there will be a solution to be found. We are also open to this, Mr Strache, that we are discussing this problem, namely the problem of Count, together with you. It does not help us at all if your club is then told that Mr Graf may become the Data Protection Council President. That's not useful to us. We need to see that we find a solution here in the Bureau. There you are cordially invited to do so, and I hope that we will do the same. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Now, perhaps, as I said, it has already been said a lot about the anti-corruption and the lobbying law, the Minister has carried it out comprehensively – a few words on party financing: I think it is right, and anyone who deals with matter also thinks it is right and objective that we have a party financing that is transparent and that does not flow from any dubious cash. If, for example, you have often traveled last year if you have visited a Mr. Kadyrow if you have visited a Mr. Gaddafi, as long as he was still in office, if you have visited Saddam Hussein before – I am convinced if the Idi Amin would still be, if you were also in need there – to fill the cash registers then I wonder: [[Abg. Ing. Hofer: What do you want to say?]] Is that really what you want? [[Abg. Grosz: In fact, there was always only Heinz Fischer! Fischer Heinzi has a special flaw for dictatorships!]] I say: No, it's not. I am in favour of a transparent party finance law, and what is available to us today is the solution. Ladies and gentlemen! Transparent party funding is the solution word – and not the funding and money from dictatorships. This is our position. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00163_d7e6269	Next speaker: Mr Donnerbauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00163_d7e6291	Mr President. Values Members of the Federal Government! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, there is no doubt: Corruption is a creeping poison for economy and democracy. And some of the actions that have come to light in recent months, some of the behaviours, practices dealt with by the Justice or the Investigation Committee, are undoubtedly unacceptable. No, they are to be pursued with all vehemence and to be guarded accordingly. There must be no excuse for corruption and personal enrichment by officials. But, my venerations Ladies and gentlemen, one thing is clear with all vehemence: No, Austria is not a corrupt republic, as has sometimes been described in this way, in the media and by some politicians, and Austria is not a corruption oasis either. Once we take the numbers back and compare: The corruption index of Transparency International is published annually. 182 countries around the world have been investigated for this index in 2011. And Austria has taken the rank 16 out of 182 countries under investigation. That is, Austria is among the 10 percent of the best countries in the world. That's what a corruption oasis looks like, so a corrupt republic doesn't look like. There are many European countries behind us, such as Belgium, Ireland, France. But also countries such as the USA, which sometimes appear to be a hort of cleanliness, are clearly behind Austria. That too should be said clearly. This truth too, I think, should help to break through. But we have agreed, even in recent months, that additional legal measures are needed. That was, I think, incontrovertible. And so today, with the decision-making on this entire transparency package, we will make a very important and big step towards further consistent fight against corruption, and with that I am convinced that even in the corruption index, we will continue to make better ranks. Because – you also have to know – the corruption index does not, or does not only, or only to a small part, address the question of what corruption exists, but rather of certain pattern schemes that are required. If we do not have some regulations in individual areas, then we will be able to get back there. With these rules, which we decide today, especially in the area of justice, corruption law and lobbying law, we meet all the requirements set out in the various investigations and evaluations of international anti-corruption organisations in Austria. It is therefore because we agreed that further steps need to be taken here also by the legislator, in recent months there has been very intense negotiations with all parties, with the judges. I would also like to mention this again. There were very constructive negotiations with the Federal Ministry of Justice, which supported these negotiations, but also with many experts. I believe that what we have on the table today in the area of justice on the issue of decision-making is more than tangible. We intensify punishments, there are higher penalties in individual areas of anti-corruption, we also make foreign states punishable, we tighten – which many have demanded – the crime of feeding, and we will for the first time introduce a lobbying register in Austria. And this law – even if Some are not yet far enough, others go too far – it is certainly also exemplary for regulations in Europe and all over the world, for such a law, such a lobbying register, as we decide today, is actually not available in any country. In most countries where there are rules for lobbyists, there is only the need to register, but not other rules of conduct as in Austria. It will be mandatory in Austria to register in the lobbying register if one wants to accept lobbying orders, namely a public registration concerning the person of the lobbyists, and a non-public registration concerning the subject-matter of the contract. We are also in favour of this, because there were and are also constitutional concerns about establishing a public register in this area, and I believe that even these constitutional concerns must be addressed. There will be a legal definition of lobbying in the lobbying law for the first time. Compulsory ethics standards for lobbyists are introduced, in particular, that they – and that is, I believe, an important point – in discussions with authorities, with officials, with politicians clearly reveal their activities from the very beginning, from the first minute clearly state why they are here, for whom they are here and on which order they are carrying out this conversation. A very important point: In this lobbying law, success fees are not only banned, but also threatened with a nullification, the highest civil sanction. In addition, it is foreseen that the fee of such prohibited success fees will be lost in favour of the Republic. I would therefore like to conclude by thanking all the colleagues in the various parties concerned with these matters, in particular the judicial speakers, the experts involved in this discussion, and of course also the Minister of State, who has always been involved, and their employees in the cabinet and in the house for their expertise and for their cooperation. I am convinced that this will ensure even more cleanliness and transparency and, again, more confidence in public institutions and policies. And I can invite you to vote for this today. Before we can do this, however, I also have the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] It is only a editorial report that is intended to be corrected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00163_d7e6385	The amendment is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00163_d7e6428	Next speaker: Mr Delegate Dr. Fichtenbauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00163_d7e6450	Mr. Federal Chancellor! Dear Government Bank! Mr President. High house! As a liberal advocate of the principle of giving the state of citizens' income only what he absolutely needs, I would not have any particular objections to the editorial accident. “At the expense of the federal government” would be an interesting variant. I would also like to add that it is with regret to note that Mr Donnerbauer probably has his last appearance here – or do we have one more? – as the judicial speaker of his group and as the chairman of the judicial committee, I thank him for his collegiate cooperation. – Mr Kopf is not here, so I cannot take the opportunity to congratulate him on his birthday. It would be a miracle if a so-called package such as Pro and Kontra were not to be strongly intertwined, the parties found themselves or discussed. That's the nature of the thing in rebus politicians. – Did I say that right, Professor: “in rebus politicians”? - It doesn't matter. [[Looking to Federal Minister Dr. Dänderle, turning:]] [[Abg. Grosz: Should we bring a coffee? - Cake? Coffee? Tea?]] - No, no, no. I'm just on the line of acceptance and I'm avoiding cakes. Thank you. Coffee? No, no, no, – Mr Grosz, talk about what you understand. You don't understand anything about the things that it's all about today. [[Congratulations on members of FPÖ and ÖVP.]] I come in a row to sober analyses of the present things and refer to the fact that Mr Kickl, who has negotiated the Party Act, has been given pretensions that in some things he would not have expressed his critical remarks. I repeat what he said about § 4 – that is the limit for the campaign effort –: There are 7 million, and there is a timeframe, from – to where the parties are allowed to spend this amount. Despite demand, the Committee has not been clarified and has not been able to explain what is meant by the term “expenditure”: Are these payments? Is that the debt in the period? Or is that a payment promise for later? Or do they include performance commitments to be redeemed later on? . So a grey plane that could not be explained to Mr Kickl. Second point: ==References====External links== 2 of § 7 is listed as a series of expenditure on election advertising: Exterior advertising, mailcast et cetera. However, essential points, i.e. costs of the fleet or course events, are typically not listed. Cases which are subject to the limit for the advertising of the text of the text. 1, yes or no? – That could not be clarified. That is why Mr Kickl's criticism is objectively justified, whether one likes to hear it or not, or whether it is intentional legislative supremacy. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Number 2: We are in the Incompatibilities Act, and I am referring to why we agree. First: The Preamble is important to the Freedom Party. It is a rejection to the only or professional politician. This is the pure counter image of what we have in front of us as Members. Therefore, the rejection to the only politician. Second point: The colleague Glavischnig – she is just coming in – is of the opinion that the lawyers have been removed here. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: I'm always here!]] This is objectively wrong, because the messages in the sense of the para. 2 Z 2 have specific categories of content which are subject to certain incomes or incomes to be reported from Z 1 to 5. [[Abg. Grosz: For lawyers you have an exception permit everywhere!]] Therefore, lawyers are also to be subsumed. By the way, this is the provisions of the German Bundestag and avoids something that the Greens would like to have – and there is the famous hare in the pepper: They wanted to reveal the sources of these incomes in a conversational approach or in an idea they had developed into the law. And by sources one understands the announcement of the individual clients, i.e. the intrusion of the – I do not want to mention the views of the political groups that have manifested themselves historically since 1919 in European history, which find any kind of secret protection of the devil. – So the individual client should be announced and possibly then credited: Hello, you'll be represented by this and that! Don't you mind? And with his political attitudes you cannot be satisfied! – It is therefore in an unpronounced but existing form to protect the professional secrecy of the professions. And there we are at TOP number 5: Lobbying and Interest Representative Transparency Law. [[Abg. Grosz: Brav voted!]] There is under § 2 para. 4: “to legal advice and representation by lawyers, notaries, economic trustees and other authorised persons” the law shall not apply. Mr Grosz, the aporie of your empty mind is only to be brought into a relationship with ideas that lie outside the space of imaginable cultural sciences. You just can't talk about this. It's no wonder if you haven't learned a profession that requires at least an academic level. This must be demonstrated by all the professions. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Don't be so superlative! You're quite superlative!]] And unlike lobbyism, these professions have a high-level vocational training requirement, have their register, and that's public – don't scream around!; is all nonsense, what you are talking about – and is subject to a sharp regime of disciplinary right. [[Abg. Dr. Glawischnig-Piesczek: to lead the title “Lawyer”!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Such a superlative thing!]] [[Further calls for Greens and BZÖ]] To equate it with lobbyism is a process that lies outside of reasonable thinking. [[Abg. Grosz: Thank God I am not a lawyer!]] [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign.]] And I don't hide that this is mentally unreachable to you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00163_d7e6643	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Steinhauser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00163_d7e6664	Ladies and gentlemen! After this attack by colleague Fichtenbauer's arrogance – I don't know: are you talking to your voters like that?; that would interest me – again on the subject. [[Congratulation with the Greens]] Ladies and gentlemen! This could and should have been a restart of the Republic today – and it is to be feared that it will be a wrong start. While the transparency package and the intensification of corruption law are a milestone, the increase in party funding is undoubtedly a milestone among voters. Ladies and gentlemen! If today FPÖ and BZÖ claim to have better knowledge that the greens are for increasing the promotion of the party, then let yourself be said – and observe our voting behaviour –: The Green Group will, of course, vote against the increase in party funding, ladies and gentlemen. Another thing: All the arguments that have been put forward claim that the transparency package requires the promotion of the party are incorrect. One could decide on the transparency package, as we Greens do, and would not have to raise a cent of party funding! Only SPÖ and ÖVP do that. But even more heartily is the formulation of the BZÖ. We have always made it clear that there will be no exchange – increase of party support versus transparency package. [[Abg. Petzner: But you did that in practice! – 24. May! 24. May 2012!]] I'll explain to you: We have said from the beginning that this is not a negotiating object. And I'll tell you why. What you want, the junk animation, would have been the following: [[Abg. Petzner: Yes, please?]] The Greens have been fighting for years for transparency in party donations, in advertisements, in sponsoring and want sanctions. SPÖ and ÖVP have refused to implement this for years. – Your junkim would have looked so good that the greens would have said: If you increase the promotion of parties, we will withdraw the long-term demand for transparency. [[Abg. Petzner: That's how you admitted it!]] – Well, that would have scared SPÖ and ÖVP who did not want to. [[Abg. Petzner: That's how you admitted it!]] Do you know what they said? - I'll tell you what they said. [[Abg. Street: The SPÖ has entered the transparency package if you agree!]] You said: All right, then there is no transparency package, and the promotion of parties will nevertheless be increased! – That’s how your strategy looks, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] But in principle you can look at who agrees: There, where something is toothless and nothing happens, the FPÖ agrees; where long and tough is negotiated, the Greens agree. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the FPÖ.]] I can tell you. Keywords: Corruption law. – A major milestone. First point: The corruption privilege of Members has fallen. You're punishable now. I picked this out: In June 2008 we requested this, then in October 2010 and then in March 2011. This is now – enforced by the Greens! “ Feeding” is banned again. You know, hunting, VIP invitations. We requested this in March 2011 – it is enforced! State-based companies are again involved in the strict criminal law of corruption. We requested this in March 2011 – it is enforced! This is, of course, not only a success of the Greens. No, no, no, We have negotiated with the Minister of Justice, with their officials, with the ÖVP, with the SPÖ, with the BZÖ. Everyone moved. Everyone can enjoy a common success. Only one party did not cooperate: the FPÖ! [[Abg. Grosz: The lawyer fichtenbauer!]] She's been negotiating. Sometimes she was there, but most of the time she missed. And if she was there, do you know what the FPÖ then demanded? – The fact that Members are not subject to the strict criminal law of corruption. [[Abg. Strache: That's absolute nonsense!]] That was the only concern of the FPÖ! It has so surprised even ÖVP and SPÖ that you were not a serious negotiating partner. [[Abg. That's a nonsense!]] - No, that's no nonsense, that's fact! That's what it was. Your only concern! But let's keep looking! Next law, ladies and gentlemen: Disclosure of secondary employment and by-catches of Members. – The Greens do not agree. The FPÖ agrees. The whole law is like an Emmentaler with more gaps than cheese. While it is necessary to disclose who is sitting in board and supervisory councils, who deserves how much, but should not be published. The FPÖ is right! That means that no one should know who is on which board and on which Supervisory Board, namely, which Member, and what he deserves. You want this to be a secret. We have discussed this in the Committee. Do you know what Mr Fichtenbauer said? That is what the citizens are supposed to do together. – This is how the citizens of the FPÖ look! You can't find what you deserve in the Supervisory Board. [[Abg. Strache: Just like the donations of the party that you raise!]] That means in clear text, you want all of this to remain in the dark. - That's one. Secondly, the debate about the sources. This is an exciting question: It must be disclosed when someone is self-employed, but not what is the source of self-employed income. This is a delicate debate, I admit. Clients of lawyers are of course not to be published. But take the “Fall Gartlehner ” here! In the “Fall Gartlehner” it was about the fact that Parliamentary Gartlehner received money from Telekom. All were outraged: That is obvious, that must be transparent, that is incompatible! After the new reform, supported by the FPÖ, Mr Gartlehner has nothing to reveal. [[Abg. That's a fool! He's got to be very good!]] He must announce that he has an independent assignment, according to a particular category, but who is behind it, not. [[Abg. That's a nonsense!]] Please inquire, Mr. Strache. Incompetence is not considered to be a mitigating circumstance. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The FPÖ is involved in the sanctions. But there are no sanctions! [[Abg. Grosz: That's right!]] Mr Fichtenbauer has spread in his statement that not every law must have sanctions. Normally, no punishment is too strict for you when it comes to the citizens, but when it comes to the Members of Parliament, it is mild, then suddenly there is no need for any more sanctions. That's the FPÖ! - That's not absurd! [[Abg. That's absurd!]] Get in touch first, and then argue! [[Abg. Strache: This is an absolute nonsense!]] "Absolute nonsense" is a bad argument. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Next item, Mr Strache: Lobbyists Act. - You have a lobbyist in your ranks. This is the Member of the Fichtenbauer, who has lobbyed for the lawyers. He has lobbied them successfully. Do you know how long the negotiations on the lobbying law took? – As long as your FPÖ member has needed to ask: Are the lawyers included: yes or no? When you said, No!, the negotiations were completed. – It’s so simple! The FPÖ has never been about anything in all history. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Bitch.]] You were always on the other side. Always on the other side! That's the truth! Inside you have no interest in transparency, you walk outside and tell the citizens fairy tale stories. That's the truth! There is now a result, and citizens can imagine: Where long and tough negotiations have taken place, where there is quality behind it, the Greens agree, and where it has gone short, where it is toothless, the FPÖ agrees. [[Abg. Strache: The Tageswitz of the Party Funding Veroppler!]] [[Abg. You're making the robbers! That's the truth!]] And once again for you to write, I'll write it to you: The Greens do not agree to the increase in party funding! I suppose you're going to understand. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00163_d7e6975	Next speaker: Mr Grosz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00163_d7e6996	High house! Allow me to say something about Mr Fichtenbauer's somewhat folding emotional attack: So today I'm proud not to be an academic and not a lawyer! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] When I look at the law matter, I can say as a non-jurisdiction: The BZÖ succeeded in negotiating with the corruption criminal law all the strengthenings necessary as a result of the investigation committee. This has been possible for the small merchant apprentice Grosz as a judge, and we can be quite proud of that. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I believe that even the dental technician Strache or the non-Academist Kickl, hopefully, does not need to argue with Mr. Fichtenbauer about any academic degree, because that does not bring us any further. We know why Mr Fichtenbauer is doing this. The lawyer Fichtenbauer wants to be the successor of the attorney in the place of the first, second, third president. That's no longer what he's trying to do. But I am now concerned with the matter, ladies and gentlemen! We're already experiencing a day of extremes today. We are experiencing an extremely strictly formulated right of corruption, which has lived through a model process of law enforcement: Tails, long negotiations with experts, with the staff of the Ministry of Justice, with all the judges to achieve a result. After that, this draft law entered the committee. That too was too little for us! The BZÖ has said: We want a committee opinion! That's what happened! And today, for the first time in the history of the Second Republic, we decide on the first right of corruption, which is also worthy of its name – in great unanimity today! And that is the only law where the BZÖ goes with today, because everything else does not even have the value of the paper on which it has been printed. The Lobbyist Law, ladies and gentlemen of the Freedom Party, which you decide today, distinguishes between corporate lobbyists and professional lobbyists and takes the lawyers out at all and is, by the way, a chamber privilege for the workers' chamber and for the trade unionists. What was important to you, we have already heard from Mr Steinhauser: that the professional colleagues of Mr Fichtenbauer are taken out. Do you know what you decide? – You decide that a Mr Hochegger will no longer have to work as an independent lobbyist in the future at the Hochegger case in the future, but he will be able to work directly at Telekom in the future, then perhaps he will also get a place in Parliament, because that is not incompatible according to your ideas. You decide today! They decide today to set up a committee that says – to sharpen ears, sit quietly! –: “Lastly, a solution will be to look for that person who appears in the lobbying and interest register” – listen! – ‘easy access to Parliament and other representative bodies may be provided’. Permanent passports for Parliament! Do you know what, ladies and gentlemen of red, black and liberals? – Let’s move the bank away and let’s just put up all the lobbyists there, or next to the Federal President’s Log and the Bundesratsloge on the audience gallery! Let's just put the lobbyists in there, because that says the exclusion statement that your “merciful” Mr. Fichtenbauer has decided – a lobbyist law, the American conditions and the purchase of parliamentarians for the first time in the history of the Second Republic. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] And that's where the BZÖ says under guarantee: No, because that is not the right conclusion from the Committee of Inquiry, that is not the conclusion that people in this country expect, namely, morals and opposition to politics, these basic components, to be widened. Now to the third law that is passed here today – against the votes of the BZÖ! Again: Lobbyist law – against the votes of the BZÖ!, party financing law – against the votes of the BZÖ! because we are the only party – Stefan Petzner, the negotiator; as the only party! – from the beginning, several weeks ago, we never agreed to an increase in the promotion of the party! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. Strache: Because you don't want any improvements!]] Ladies and gentlemen of the liberals! Ladies and gentlemen of the Greens! It is disgraceful, at the height of an economic crisis, a few months after the Stability Act 2012, a few months after the abolition of the building savings bank facilitation, a few months after the increase in access restrictions to the care money, a few months after the largest savings package in the Republic, to get into the pocket itself as a policy and to increase the promotion of the parties. That is disgraceful, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Strache: 700,000 € for discs! 300,000 € for Westenthalers! That's exactly the one!]] I tell you very honestly, very dear Greens: From the Bible, the New Testament, we know that there were 30 silverlings. That was the so - called Judas ’ reward. Now I ask you: What is your political “Judas’ wage” that you agree with this doubling of party funding at all? [[Abg. Dr. Moser: What?]] [[Abg. Dr. Moser: We vote against it!]] I ask you: What is it? [[Abg. Dr. Moser: Nothing at all!]] Is it the 1.5 million € that you now get more per year than greens and greens? [[Abg. Dr. Moser: We won't! You don't understand anything! They are an educated person!]] Or it's because with the 1.5 million € you can also at the same time Get your climbing mount for the ESM, for the Fiscal Pact? [[Abg. Dr. Moser: That's not true! That's wrong!]] You have lost your “youngness” on this subject and for all eternity. They adopt a party financing law and thus allow people to be deeply involved in such a situation. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: That's not true!]] And, dear Greens, don’t ever use the word “Telekom” again, I advise you! A party that has stormed Deutsche Telekom for the last three-quarters of the year, so that an investor can buy them cheaply to sell them a few weeks later with the greatest gain of his life, an investor who has a direct contact with the head of the party of the Greens, ladies and gentlemen, should be silent on this issue! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Who is that?]] [[Calls to the Greens.]] You should be silent! We will increasingly insist that you also have the Investigation Committee... [[Further calls to the Greens.]] I would like to ask you: What was Your Other “Judas Wage ”? What have you got from winning the last weeks? [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Now it becomes so really interesting!]] [[New call of the abg. Dr. Moser.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Greens! Today we will give our consent to corruption law because it also bears the BZÖ's manuscript. The BZÖ has prevailed on all points as a measure for more political hygiene. We will not agree to the Lobbyist Act because it is an incentive for corruption because it continues to issue a legal “persilschein” to the Gartlehners, the Strassers, the Mensdorff Pouillys and as you all call it. And we will not agree to party financing and continue to criticize the Greens, because they are at the height of a sovereign debt crisis, where the people of our country are demanding of us: No more debt, enough paid, doubling the promotion of the party in this country to the most disgraceful.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00163_d7e7275	The next round of speakers will be available for three and a half minutes each. Mr Herzegovina. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the honourable Member for his excellent report. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00163_d7e7299	Mr President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen, what bothers in the debate, what is the point of the people who are watching? – It is the self-congratulation and self-righteousness with which FPÖ and BZÖ occur here! Then: Your parties and your officials are the main causes and causes of the fact that we are dealing with an anti-corruption package today. [[Interim calls at FPÖ and BZÖ.]] The scandals are known: From BUWOG to Hypo to Telekom. Then: The FPÖ-functionaries Karl-Heinz Grasser, who was State Captain, or Meischberger, General Secretary of FPÖ, Rumpold, FPÖ Federal Council and Secretary General, Part-of-the-Game, and as they all call it. And the BZÖ, ladies and gentlemen – not just the “Telekom millions”! We know that for a long time, everything has been demonstrated in the Investigation Committee. And yesterday – you have to imagine that! – Mr Westenthaler Na, you need it, you have been transferred that you have cleared 300 000 € with any machinations on the site! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: What about your foundation in Styria!]] It was yesterday. And today you want to take different measures from the BZÖ here? – Well, you have good nerves, I really have to say that! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You are the biggest Abcassiers of the Second Republic!]] With regard to Mr Grosz: It's really sad that he's a Styrian countryman, as far as I'm concerned, but I want to point out to the BZÖ that: There is a large survey in the “Stierkrone ” of the 17th century. June 2012, that is to say, total: SPÖ 39 percent, ÖVP 35 percent, FPÖ 10 percent, the Green 9 percent. And now it comes: “The dramatic situation for the BZÖ () is at the perceptive limit.” [[Subsequent calls to the BZÖ.]] It's almost tragic-compassionate: You, Mr Bucher, and you, Mr Grosz, the louder you are talking about, the less perception is! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Be careful that the foam does not run you down!]] [[Further calls to the BZÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ! €600 000 that the FPÖ benefited from Deutsche Telekom. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You're a hater!]] You left the negotiations, you don't want a limit on the elections. You may want to continue the “Part-of-the-Game method”: Citizenship for foreigners who fill the cash register. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Hasser!]] What was interesting today at the FPÖ was the “fine tip” of Mr Fichtenbauer – for this he is famous! –: a song of praise to the interests of lawyers! Only: You need to clarify this internally, within the FPÖ, but we register this of course very interested. Maybe a little movement will come in as far as the Causa Count is concerned. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You are the largest pension banker of social democracy!]] Democracy, parties, public financing: This is a matter of course, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: What about the politician board, Mr. Herbs?]] We do not want to be dependent on industry. Then: As workers' rights, consumer protection, environmental regulations, this can be imagined vividly! We don't want to be dependent on corporations! Therefore, sufficient funding is needed for parties. This ensures independence and is also a protective wall against corruption. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] Increased party funding – well, could be a good business, because the billions of damage caused by BUWOG and Hypo are of course huge and in no relation to it. But is it even an increase, ladies and gentlemen? . We already have to take into account the extraordinary election cost recovery if we are quite honest. A Federal President's election also costs money, which in the past has just forced parties to make debts. The Duration of the legislative period [[New call for tender of the Abg. Kickl.]] We will be able to assess in ten to 15 years how the balance sheet looks. In any case, it will be a stable democracy, with clean parties, and Austria will claim its top position in the state community as parliamentary democracy.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00163_d7e7465	Next speaker: Mrs Hellerer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00163_d7e7486	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! The entire act consists of the Party Transparency Act, the Incompatibilities Act, the Lobbying Act and the Corruption Law. It has already been discussed very strongly in detail. It has also been mentioned the importance of parties for the functioning of democracy several times, and it is also right that it should be voted on, because functioning parties need safe funding so that democracy too can be safeguarded. The financing of the parties is carried out on the one hand by public funding, and on the other hand there are also private donations and sponsorship. The legal provisions that are being discussed in such an urgent manner today bring the greatest possible transparency. In the past, particularly in the past, the ratio of party funding between the federal and national levels has been very often discussed, and a corridor has now been created, at least in the case of two federal states, which will cause cuts. And here, to discuss an increase in the promotion of the parties and to put it down by calculations, is less meaningful, as a serious calculation is not possible at the moment, because these legislative instruments are only to be implemented in the federal states and, of course, also the measures taken in return, such as the reimbursement of the electoral costs after national elections, which are deleted, and also the party donations that are to be disclosed. There are still some other contents that are very important and of great importance, but not all of them have yet been addressed. A new regulation also regulates the reimbursement of costs for EU elections; only the actual costs of electoral campaign will be paid, with a maximum of € 2 per eligible person. The parties, the delegates and the campaigners must disclose donations and advertisements from €3 500 and sponsorship from €12 000 annually. The grants to the federal and state parties and also those to the district parties are added, and these numbers must be added annually until 30. ==References====External links== There was also praise from the experts for these projects, especially by the expert Sickinger, who especially praised the involvement of the district parties in the planned fundraising. O-Ton Sickinger: “That’s why you’ve closed a pretty big gap.” Thus, a new culture of financial cleanliness will take place in our parties in the future. Overall, it is a balanced package that will ensure the quality of political work in the parties in particular.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00163_d7e7535	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Strutz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00163_d7e7556	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Do you know what successful lobbying is? –Successful lobbying is if the Member of Parliament, who is also the managing director of SPÖ, is also responsible for the SPÖ’s finances and, as managing director, is also liable for the loans that the SPÖ has signed, which now has to raise a budget for the upcoming elections, for the National Council election campaign, when this Member of this House goes to the State Secretary Ostermayer and lobbys there, saying: Dear colleague, we need a little more money! and then Ostermayer talks to the Federal Chancellor and afterward herbs say to the Federal Chancellor: We need more money in our party register, it looks marod!, and this Member of Parliament, as a lobbyist for his party and for his personal interests, then brings a law into the National Council and decides with it. This Member of Parliament has not only beaten out something for his party, a number of millions, but also a personal benefit: Of course, his salary as a managing director is guaranteed. This is not a matter of course. At SPÖ in Carinthia, they had to release the staff when they could no longer pay them any more. It reduces its liability. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And whether there are bonuses – as in the case of Mr Treichl at the First – when he turns more money from the state to the party, is a question that the SPÖ has to clarify. This, ladies and gentlemen, is actually incompatible from my point of view, and that is what is so unfrozen today. What you're doing today is immoral, it's inappropriate: They take shamelessly into the pockets of taxpayers – in times when all savings are required. Read You see today's paper: ‘Money! – Wiener Spital saves with operations”! [[The speaker keeps a newspaper up to date.]] I hope the Minister of Health has read this. And why do you need to save? Because in all the red pens, the health budget is reduced by the Social Democrats. Do you know what the responsible spokesperson of the Health Insurance Association in Vienna says? You know what she says? She says: We handle tax money, we have to look at the budget. Dear colleagues from SPÖ and ÖVP, you too are handling tax money! Where do you look at the taxpayer? Where do you look at the budget? While in the social field, while the families are being reduced, health the area is shortened, you decide 61 percent more money for the party funds. – We don’t participate in this, because that’s immoral and that’s indecent!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00163_d7e7610	Next speaker: Mrs Dr. Moser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00163_d7e7632	Mr President. Appreciate government representatives! Ladies and gentlemen! The entrance has already been said: Corruption is poison for the economy, is poison for society. However, the following must be added: Lie is poison for democracy, poison for trust. That is why I would like to make it quite clear once again: We Greens are for sharpest anticorruption rules. We carry the anticorruption package. Mrs Minister, you have now described it very well in all its scope. Not only do we carry this, but we have also negotiated it! In addition, we have even contributed to the fact that the detection of corruption caused by the reprocessing of corruption cases caused by the establishment of an investigation committee of pressure, so that you, Mrs Minister, can present this package today in cooperation with the political group leaders in the judicial committee. Please, that was green manuscript, that was also green work! On this occasion I would like to thank all those colleagues who, in addition to their normal work in Parliament, and in the constituency, are still spending time working in the committee of inquiry so that these corruption cases can be found without delay. Thank you very much also to the leaders of the political groups, whether by SPÖ or ÖVP, whether by FPÖ or BZÖ or also by the Greens. Please, these people work in addition to the normal conditions by no more cents! That should also be clarified once more. We're not cashing anything, we're working! [[It was in favour of the Greens and SPÖ and FPÖ delegates.]] Therefore, this anti-corruption package, which has several dimensions, must also be thorough and comprehensive. And as has been said, the settlement of criminal matters has succeeded. It's got a seal of goodness. It's a mark of goodness. On the question of the transparency of party financing, it has also been largely successful, and we therefore support it. We are in favour of this transparency package, and only our success in the negotiations will make it possible for it to be adopted in this form today. I remind you: It was, I believe, early May that we had the draft government, and at that time all the opposition parties had strong criticism, only we then sat down and said that and that must be improved! – And we succeeded! I have written it in particular once again, in the speech by Mr Kickl, which all we have succeeded. I'll show you one more time and cut off the completed points with a pencil so it's clear. Negotiating the ads – successful, cut off! The negotiation that sponsoring needs to be disclosed – successful, cut off! The disclosure of the donations to a greater extent, not only from €5,000, but from €3500 – succeeded, cut off! [[Abg. Kickl: The middle between 500 and 5 000 € is 3 500!]] The fact that the districts are also subject to control – succeeded, cut off! [[Abg. Petzner: The communities wanted you too!]] This would certainly be possible if the major parties agreed. That there are criminal consequences in the event of violations – cut off! That control will be improved, that the Court of Auditors plays a greater role – green success, cut off!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00163_d7e7682	Final rate, please!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00163_d7e7698	No, we're not that far!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00163_d7e7716	Oh, yes! But the speaking time is already that far!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00163_d7e7731	Mr President. There's a different opinion! That the feeding ban comes – cut off! Please, all of this has succeeded! Now, Mr President, the final point is: We must now accept – and this is the problem – that this light, which we have brought into party funding, is raised under the umbrella of a bad party financing law, that unfortunately you managed by ÖVP and SPÖ to take their own success through a kneeshot, or – I do not want to use the word “worship” – to bring yourself very strongly into discredit.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00163_d7e7772	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Widmann.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00163_d7e7799	Mr President. High house! Mrs. Moser, when you speak of light in party financing, we speak of shadow. And if Mr Cap of the SPÖ thinks that this was a radical solution, then he is perfectly right, but a radical solution in the negative sense: a doubling of party funding! If you've been talking to the people outside in the last few weeks and days, when you've read the emails, the letters you've received, you know: Every Austrian who thinks normally only takes hold of the head, ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ and ÖVP! It's just shameless what's going on here! And here, Mr. Bundeskanzler makes fun of it when Klubobmann Bucher points out that this law increases party funding by almost 100 percent, because he did not mention it quite exactly with 95-comma something, but with 100-percent. We've rounded it up so it's plastic. That's where he's making fun, Federal Chancellor. Explain this to the workers outside, the pensioners, the students you cut everything down with the savings package last year, ladies and gentlemen! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Or explain it to the Austrians when you send money, billions to Greece when you pump money back into the ESM! We will discuss this next week, Mr Kogler. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Explain your Taferl!]] You have made the bridge holder here in party financing, and next week you will make the robbers for an ESM contract, where Austria will be reunited, where we may pay, and which will ultimately also result in up to 300 percent more government debt. Mrs Glawischnig, that's what you're doing. It's already been said that's the crimson trail, that's the green muzzle trail, the climbing sticker on the way to the government. That's not what we're going to do. We are here for the people and not for the promotion of the party. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! We also support this with relevant facts from Professor Ramb. And Dr. Axel Weber has recently said that this ESM has already failed. For the promotion of the parties. – If the former President of the Court of Auditors says that this is a completely false signal, he is perfectly right. The promotion of the parties in Germany is only one third of our Party funding, in Switzerland only one sixth – our former party funding! In other words, in the future we will have a ten- and twelve-fold party funding in Austria as in Switzerland. Does this mean that our democracy is ten or twelve times better? I say: Don't do that! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, there are very nice quotations which I do not wish to hold back from you at the end of yesterday's ORF. Mr Cap said: The increase in the promotion of parties will take place at a very low level. – On a very, very low level! Mr. Klubobmann's head then still said that in the end everything should be step-by-step neutral. That meant, in effect, Mr Spindelegger, the party chairman of the ÖVP. I am curious whether Mr Pühringer or Mr Häupl will then delete the promotion of the parties in Vienna. This is the following: Once you have to dry the swamps on the land level. You have to look at what is going on when Vienna has over €30 million to promote the party, if Upper Austria has almost €22 million – that is a multiple of the federal funding! – for a service offered there, which is actually more than to be questioned. These are pure self-service shops, purely proporative cash registers that you fill yourself – with money that you eventually put in front of the citizens! And I'm also excited about how the media will report. Of course, there is now some mandatory reporting in some media. But how critical it will be if, because of the circumvention of the media transparency law, with which you have almost abolished the government's rate of de facto, you are now pumping back money for advertisements on this way to make yourself popular with the media, according to the motto: If it fits the listing, then it also fits with reporting!? – Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, this will also be precisely questionable! Dear colleagues from the FPÖ, the difference is the: You have, together with the Greens, made the climber because you did not negotiate the transparency package with the party funding. If you had done that, you could have prevented this increase. And we also wanted a reduction in party funding, unlike the FPÖ, which is well thought out in Carinthia, Upper Austria, Vienna, where it is strong in the countries. And I never hear of the FPÖ in these countries that one should shorten the promotion of the parties. There you can start, ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ, doing a clean table! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Finally, I would like to say: Our colleague, who is now no longer there, likes to use the term “sham” for other parties. But you certainly also know the notion of ‘foreign shame’. And I am ashamed of this party financing package of ÖVP, SPÖ and Greens, which represents a huge deal in the pockets of taxpayers.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00163_d7e7872	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Steßl-Mühlbacher. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00163_d7e7893	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! High house! If you go "Lobbying", you will also find the basic rules of modern lobbying. These are explained quickly: Only those who are heard are going through! - It's very interesting. If one looks for another definition, one comes to the point that the term “lobbying” actually goes back to the lobby, English for “front hall”, the British House of Commons. Differently on the homepage of the “Women in the Economy”. Lobbying is defined as follows: “Lobbying is the political management of information with the aim of influencing political decisions.” – Well! The rise of various corruptions around the ex-minister Strasser – “of course I’m a lobbyist” – and the findings gained in the investigation committee also bring us to the transparency package to be decided today. For lobbying too, transparent provisions, definitions, registration requirements are now being created, and the word “lobbying” is also defined by law. Life in nature is often influenced by hunters and hunts. In the meantime, the hunters themselves are now being hunted in Austrian politics. In the investigation committee – code name – “the hunter” was not very talking yesterday. There is the editorial “Jäger-Latin” of 27. On March 1, 2012 in the “Wiener Zeitung” by Reinhard Göweil was very interesting. I quote: "What is the hunting really? A sport? A business model? A leisure activity for real men and ambitiouss of all sexes? () Take-off hunters buy or are just invited to do so.” – And so on and so on. The policy was ensnared by such actions around the hunting companies and their alleged impact on political decisions in a swamp of corruption. Hundreds of thousands of euros changed hands to make political decisions in one direction or the other. Some of them were probably in a hunting fever at that time, or perhaps he had a so - called goat fever. Do you know what “Bock fever” is? ‘Bockfiber’ is a term from the hunting language and refers to the occasionally excited state of a hunter just before the shot at a deer. In this context, one can only say: Waidmann's thanks!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00163_d7e7937	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Lopatka. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00163_d7e7958	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Chancellor! After this speech it is difficult to praise even SPÖ members. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] But I want to get back to the matter now. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Herbs.]] Yes, my colleague Herbs, I have already said that it does not help us if we throw dirt on each other here. Actually, we should talk about the positive today. If I draw up the GRECO report which we received at the beginning of the year, this report was a very, very critical one. What was Austria accused of? Austria has been accused of lack of control, no sanctions, no disclosure of party donations, no uniform rules throughout the country, no rules for mandates, as far as donations are concerned and elections are concerned. GRECO, the anti-corruption group of the Council of Europe, requested measures from Austria as part of its third round of evaluation. And then Klubobmann Cap and Klubobmann promised to put such measures on the table until summer. This has happened to an extent – it has been said before – that many have not expected. I therefore do not understand the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, that if you have such a throw – and this is a throw that can be achieved here – they are still not there again. I don't understand, I tell you. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We could have put a sign out here as a Parliament: lesson learnned. And what are we doing? The debate has shown it again: There we create something in common, which is necessary for the reputation of politicians in times like this, but even then we are unable to present it accordingly. That's why: What do we decide today, ladies and gentlemen? First: We are strengthening the Court of Auditors. Secondly, There are penalties, up to €100 000. I myself was a long-term leader and secretary-general of a party and had a lot to do with party finances, more than a decade. Of course, you will be particularly careful when you know that you yourself can be held responsible with up to €100 000. This is a different legal situation than we had in Austria so far. You have to say that clearly. The third point: the donations we now have, down to the districts. This will be a huge challenge for the parties because we need to change our work here. I can only speak for my district, where I've been a district party observer for a very long time. We have always made the strict test before the parties. And the party days we have every three, four years and not every year. So we'll have to look at this very carefully year after year, because if you work hard in a party – and there's still that – and if you're looking for donations to try ads, 3 500 € will be reached relatively quickly. What I absolutely do not understand in a party such as the liberals, who so strongly support more civil rights, for more citizens' participation: Here you want to take the right of citizens to give a donation to a party?- Oh, my God! [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the FPÖ.]] So if I stand in my constituency for someone, I want him to have the right to support me in the election campaign with a donation. Do you think the citizens are completely unmistakable?- Oh, my God! For every club you can donate, but for a political party you can't donate?- Oh, my God! You can't support my election campaign?- Oh, my God! I don't understand! What have I done that a citizen of my constituency should not also support me with a donation? I don't understand, I tell you! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] I'm not putting myself in the crime. I don't put myself in a corner, almost as a pariah, where you have to tell everyone: Please, don't come near me, and don't even think about supporting me! Elections are allowed to bring young people with me to their time, but when it comes to giving a donation to a party or a representative, is it not possible?- Oh, my God! So I don't understand your approach to a general ban on giving a party something. I'm really asking you: What is inappropriate about your commitment to a party – or if you don't have the time to say: Yes, but I am willing to give a donation to a party!?I'll tell you: If one followed you here, one would continue to make a contribution to turn parties into an even more negative light. And the point that is already quite crucial to me is: How do you keep up with it yourself? After the last election in Carinthia, Dörfler and Scheuch still belong to the BZÖ, if I see it correctly, now they already belong to you as FPK – they are also in the middle of the group. “Part of the game” was also there, immediately after the election of the country, to increase the promotion of the party, to increase club promotion and to increase the cost of the election. You didn't see a problem there! [[Abg. Dr. Strutz: That was the wish of the ÖVP in the Coalition Convention!]] That is why I say to you: You should not always measure by two measures! [[Abg. Dr. Strutz: That was the wish of the ÖVP!]] In the meantime, you've been forced to lower that again. In the state you brought Carinthia, you were actually forced. You're right. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We should not only see what we have decided today in the light of the assessment of Austrian experts, but we should wait for the next GRECO report to look forward to. This is then indicated by the Council of Europe, the European Council, the confirmation that this decision-making, which we are making here today, will bring us to a European standard, where we do not have to worry about the next report. Finally, I should like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I ask you to accept the amendment and thank all those who support this great legislative solution here today.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00163_d7e8088	The amendment is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00163_d7e8137	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Stefan. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00163_d7e8159	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr. Federal Chancellor! Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! What has been heard today: from quantum jumps to milestones over large litters, and in between very massive mutual “bubblings. ” In my opinion, it has been very weak to a large extent, and it has nothing to do with it, because then nobody knows what it really is about. One should keep the ball flat in the sense of what is going on right now, I think, because what we decide here today is largely meaningful change. You can certainly talk about it, and there are different opinions about whether you feel it more good or not. And I think that is how the negotiations ended. Some of these have taken a long time, but this is relatively weak to blame for each other. What's this about? And: What is the position of the FPÖ? Briefly summarized: Corruption law, enlargement and clarification – we agree with the FPÖ. Any accusations – Mr Steinhauser has accused us of anything – are pointless because our voting behaviour is clear. Lobbying Act: We are also of the opinion that it is an improvement in relation to the current situation. Things are being clarified, a register is created, which is then also available to the public. All of this is not perfect, not a question, and one will not, in fact, prevent what was the starting point for the discussion, because all those who act really criminally, that is, with criminal energy, will be able to escape it in the future and will actually escape it. They will not appear in any register or appear as lobbyists in the real sense, because when money is distributed and people are being bribed, this never has anything to do with lobbying, but is purely criminal. So that's clear. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Another clarification why it was our concern to keep the professions out of this way and not to put lobbyists in the same way: because it simply and simply has a different quality. First of all, it is open when someone has a professional profession. The person concerned is registered in a list, has made a professional examination, is also subject to special supervision and also has a duty of confidentiality. And this obligation of confidentiality is in fact a protection of the client, just as it is a protection of the patient by the doctor. If it were to be revealed which doctor gets something from or perhaps has a bigger fee, it would actually be an intervention in the privacy of the people being treated. The last consequence would be that we have a professional ban, and that's exactly what we don't want. We want the politicians, who can also practice a profession, because it is important that people who do not only make politics, because this ultimately impoverish this Parliament quite massively, and everyone who stands up for it does nothing good to democracy. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The Party Finance Act also has positive approaches, not a question, but if finally it remains that party funding is increased massively – not to 100 percent, but only to 97 percent, as the Federal Chancellor has told us – then that is the crucial point where we simply cannot go along. That's the voter, that's not reasonable to the population. That's why we pulled the lines and we're not there. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: You can decide on the transparency package!]] This is not an opportunity to express any polemics to us now, but it is a clear matter of attitude. Our attitude is: We are for the financing of the parties by means of party support, but not for a 97 percent increase, and we are also quite clear that one recognises where money flows and in what context a politician stands. And that's why we pulled the lines. Finally, to the Incompatibilities and Remuneration Restriction Act: There are now clarifications. There is now what we wanted, namely increased transparency, not what others want, especially the Greens: Penalties and prohibitions. We have said that it must be disclosed, and that has become more meaningful in that respect. I am now making an amendment to the Inconsistency and Consistency Limitation Act – because the speaking time is threatening to end. In reality, this is only an editorial clarification so that one can see what references need to be revealed in future categories. [[Quoted print version removed]] We have thus clarified our positions in this subject matter. We agree where we have seen meaningful changes and improvements. We are not there where we see the handle of the taxpayer's pocket and an improper increase in the promotion of the party. – This is a very clear announcement, and this should also lead to the goal in terms of democracy and the improvement of transparency.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00163_d7e8250	The amendment is being negotiated. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00163_d7e8334	Next speaker: Mr Brosz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00163_d7e8355	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! After several hours and several days of negotiations for the Party Law, I have sometimes wondered what event I ended up in, because after there was a government template and then some public debates, we have found that the government is ready to step by step to improve, sharpen the law, make the provisions more effective in order to get to a law that – I don't even want to evaluate it from us – the experts who have taken care of party funding in this country mainly and, for the most part, positively evaluate – I only say Sickinger, Sarden – who recognize that a cultural break has really happened here. And then you get into these party negotiations, the government parties have sat opposite, and now there are three opposition parties, each of which tries to make the law worse and get the best out. Then sit – welcome, Mr Kickl! – the FPÖs inside, and every time we say: We would like this to be tighter, says Mr Kickl: No, we can't, we don't! We do not want a reduction in the cost of election, we do not want any sanctions, we do not want the communities in as far as possible! Somehow I thought that the roles had been strongly exchanged. It was not quite easy with my colleague's head, and I think we have made some tough duels during the negotiations. But I believe that we can also use some pragmatic arguments for ourselves. Especially in the question of the enforceability of the law, we have really gone relatively far. [[Abg. Kickl: The only reasonable among you is the kogler!]] If we – I don't know exactly – have 2 000 communities in Austria, then it becomes clear that in some things it will be difficult to bring them together so far that they can be understood throughout Austria. We have also acknowledged that. Just that you went here and said in principle to everything we actually wanted to improve: Yes, you can talk to us, but only – if that comes out! That was remarkable. So, the FPÖ has taken on a special role. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] And if you now declare that party promotion is increased because of the greens: That's even the most ridiculous thing you can do! Look what your publications were when you entered the negotiations! There were clear positions. Mr Petzner came in and said: 40 percent less, otherwise he doesn't agree. That was a clear positioning – we don't share, but it was a clear positioning. We have said that it must not be put on the Federation by the countries. It was also a clear positioning. They came in and said: We can no longer give the 5 million of the countries to the federal government. So Mr Kickl would have accepted 5 million increase. And the government parties have said we want more – now it's 10 million. Okay. So you'd have accepted 5 million, we're not. [[Abg. Kickl: Learn to calculate! Look at the time when the laws enter into force! And what the change will cost when it is decided!]] Look, it's pretty simple. We shall then vote on the transparency provisions. There's nothing inside of these 4,60 €. If you reject this law, you reject the Electoral Cost Limitation, you reject the criminal provisions – all this will be decided against the votes of the FPÖ! [[Abg. Kickl: Mr Brosz, you do not even dominate the most necessary things!]] The question of increasing party support will be decided by the government parties alone, and you are doing exactly what you have done in the negotiations. That's quite simple: How much have you spent on the 2006 National Council election? 6 million €! Well, what do you want to spend? 12 million, 15 million? It is your concern that you can bring the money you heard into the election campaign, and that is what you have tried to prevent by all means. [[Intrusions of the Abg. Kickl.]] You have lost every mask you have in the negotiations! [[Abg. Kickl: My goodness!]] It has become clear: Watering up, discouraging and putting as much money into the election campaign as possible – that was the program of the FPÖ. There is no need to regard this as progress. We've achieved a lot here. But it will also be the question of how this law works in practice. [[Abg. Kickl: Poor Kogler!]] I believe that the cultural breakdown is obvious; Mr Lopatka has referred to it. There will be a change in many parties. All local organisations will have to report all the data for a joint account of the federal government. [[Abg. Kickl: And published a year and a half later! A year and a half later, this appears to be the case in the Court of Auditors' report!]] This is a real quantum leap for Austria, a progress. But it will be the question of whether this will be so easy for all. There are administrative penalties if they are violated. All sponsoring services – which I think is almost for the largest throw – are counted Austria-wide, from the national level, the federal level and the district level. And with what remains, with €12 000 a year and on the three levels, no campaign can be financed. [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign.]] All that you have taken from Libya, from Syria, all this is forbidden first, and the “sacks” you have collected are to be published. Wonderful! FPÖ will not be able to continue its form of election funding. This is a success of this law!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00163_d7e8492	Next speaker: Mrs Binder-Maier. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00163_d7e8514	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Today we have heard very many prejudices, precepts and envy in relation to transparency, with party promotion, with lobbyism, with corruption. I think that's a populist way. A constructive way, ladies and gentlemen, is to work on rules that create clarity, and today's legislation is on the table, which we can now vote on very soon. The debate was marked by great distrust and above all by mutual accusations. I believe, yes, I am really convinced that functioning democracy can only consist of a variety of parties and can also work, and that parties have structures where people stand behind it, parties have the task to share information, to prepare actions that also need to be financed. And that's right and that's good. But for me, ladies and gentlemen, the question is: Why do we even discuss such legal regulations today? It may be that these rules are therefore necessary, because in the past it has been shown that there is a lack of self-understanding among some politicians, the self-understanding that is partly shared in the family: What's right? What's wrong? What's good? What's evil? And what has something to do with propriety and life realities? And there's a definition of Harold Lasswell about corruption. Corruption as a destructive act of violation of general interest in favour of a personal advantage. In the broadest sense, corruption, he says, is fashionable corruption. Ladies and gentlemen, this depravity belongs to annihilation. Therefore today, the legal regulations that create clarity, which lay down rules, also contain criminal law conditions when it comes to the lack of this self-conception of grace, this self-conception of law and injustice. Sometimes it will not be easy to implement this bundle of measures, but we are on the right track, and we will work on it.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00163_d7e8562	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Worm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00163_d7e8583	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! The lady and the gentlemen on the government bank! Ladies and gentlemen! I am just coming from Strasbourg from the third part-session of the Council of Europe, and here, of course, is this one – do you not mind that we are a member of this important international peace organisation, Mr Grosz? [[Abg. Grosz: Directly flown in?]] [[Lively ironic hustle and bustle at the FPÖ.]] [[Further calls of the Abg. Grosz.]] At any rate, there is the headquarters of the important GRECO Committee, which repeatedly also draws up a report for Austria. [[Abg. Grosz: What does GRECO mean?]] This report has already been delivered three times. The anti-corruption group of the Council of Europe has submitted a report and has given ten recommendations for Austria, which have now been almost completed. Here we have reached Europe's standard, here we are internationally now at European level, and I am proud that this has been so successful, even though the disruptors are overtaking here. I am also pleased that this draft law has succeeded in giving Parliament the best form of parliamentaryism in the House in tough negotiations within the various parties, namely that all parties can agree to the anti-corruption law, that regulations have been found here after submission by the Ministry that a genuinely exemplary solution has been found in negotiations with the judges. This has been achieved, which would often be desirable in many other areas. If, then, experts and experts believe that this transparency package – it's about several laws – can be spoken of as a big throw, it's very encouraging. For example, Sickinger says what the greatest achievements are: As far as party funding is concerned, there are certain prohibitions on donations to political parties and to MPs, campaigning groups and officials, for public bodies, the foreigners are no longer allowed to donate, donations that are clearly made in expectation of a return, are in principle illegal. – These are already important pillars. The former President of the Court of Auditors, also known by Transparency International, Fierce, has given us a “two” for part of the law. That too is remarkable. Bachmayer says that it is more than expected that critical experts also express themselves positively. There's a big throw. In conclusion, I would like to say – and I heard this yesterday in Strasbourg about a very important diplomat who is very concerned with the fight against corruption: In addition to all the legal provisions that are necessary, in addition to all the controls, in addition to the sanctions, which are of course necessary, it is also important to look at who is in the various bodies, who is in the various control bodies. It must be seen that women are present, because this is a good guarantee for less corruption at all levels.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00163_d7e8645	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Maier. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00163_d7e8667	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Values Members of the Federal Government! With today's legislative package, Austria is going a new way. Austria is making clear, legal provisions and we have taken into account – and I would like to stress this as a member of the Committee of Inquiry – findings from the Committee of Inquiry in these laws. Whoever was in the committee of inquiry yesterday was able to find the recruitment of a former Telekom manager, Rudolf Fischer, who had commissioned Mensdorff-Pouilly as a lobbyist to solve a problem for Deutsche Telekom and provided 500 000 € for it. As Mensdorff solved the Telekom problem, he was honestly not interested in it, so Fischer put it to the record. High House, Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, this shows the unsitting in the private sector, which we also want to fight with today's law package, including the lobbying and interest-making transparency law. High House, ladies and gentlemen, I represent a different position as the BZÖ. I don't think you can compare a Mensdorff Pouilly, who accepts a lobbying contract from EADS or British Aerospace Systems, with a legal representation such as the Chamber of Labour or the Chamber of Commerce. They exercise the interests of their members within the framework of the representation of interests, and what is essential, they are also controlled by the Court of Auditors, the budgets are transparent. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] High House, Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, have you ever experienced this with private lobbyists that they are controlled by the Court of Auditors? - No, you'll never get the numbers. I would, however, like to tell you the figures, the benefits that the workers' chambers provide. I speak for the Chamber of Workers Salzburg, where I myself am employed. In 2011, 169,062 customer consultations took place. There were €19 million for the members. There were 61 658 consultations in the Legal Department, 29 500 consultations in consumer advice, 31 537 consultations at the AK offices and 27 461 consultations in the Social Policy Department. There would also be a similar performance report for other workers' chambers. High House, Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, this lobbying law creates clear rules, clear rules for professional lobbyists. What legal interest representatives do in the interests of their members, you can already see today's websites of the individual workers' chambers. In this sense, I can ask you to agree to this package of laws!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00163_d7e8721	No one is reported in the word anymore. I therefore conclude the debate. We come to the votes. We shall vote separately on each of the Committee's proposals. Firstly, we shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 1: Draft Party Law 2012 in 1844 of the Supplements. Mrs Wittmann, Mr Mag. Hiezu. Gerstl, Mag. Mr Kogler, ladies and gentlemen, tabled an amendment or amendment. First of all, I shall vote on the parts of the draft law concerned by this supplementary or amendment, and finally on the remaining parts which have not yet been voted on. This draft law contains several constitutional provisions. I therefore note the presence of the constitutional number of Members required for the vote. We shall now proceed to the vote on the supplementary or amendment tabled by Mr Wittmann, Mr Mag. Gerstl, Mag. Kogler, colleagues on the introduction of a new paragraph. 1a in § 5 and amendment of § 6 para. 3rd. Whoever stands for it, I ask for a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft and the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give your consent to a positive sign. – This is accepted by a majority. I expressly note the two-thirds majority required by constitution. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: narrate!]] We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft, to a sign on this point. – This is accepted by a majority. I, in turn, expressly establish the two-thirds majority required by constitution. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. Agenda item 2: Draft Federal Law on Funding of the Federal Government for Political Parties (Parties Funding Act 2012) and Title and Entry in 1845 of the Supplements. Those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this draft, I would ask for a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall come to the third reading, for which the vote has been called for. This has been sufficiently supported, and we are therefore doing so. The votes to be used are in the House of Deputies and bear the name of the Members as well as the name 'Yes', which are the grey ballots, or 'No', which are the pink ones. Only those official votes can be used for the vote. I am looking for those Members who voted in favour of the bill in 1845 of the additions, “Yes” voting papers, those who voted against to throw “No” votes in the urn. Make sure that only one vote is cast. I now ask the writing to begin with the name call.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00163_d7e8781	The vote will end. The officials responsible for the house will count under the supervision of the scribes. I'm interrupting the session for a few minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00163_d7e8819	I will resume the interrupted sitting and announce the outcome of the vote. Members cast: 170; of which “Yes” votes: 104, No votes: 66. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. According to § 66 para. 8 of the Rules of Procedure, the names of the Members shall be included in the Stenographic Protocol, stating their voting behaviour. Members voted in ‘Yes’: Ablinger, Amon, Aubauer, Auer Jacob, Auer Joseph, Bartenstein, Bayr, Becher, Binder-Maier, Buchmayr; Cap, Cortolezis scraper, Csörgits; Donabauer Karl, Donnerbauer Heribert, Transmitter; Incubators, eaters; Fazekas, Franz, Fuhrmann, Fürntrath-Moretti; Gahr, Gartlehner, Gaßner, Gerstl, Gessl-Ranftl, Glaser, Grillitsch; Haberzettl, Hakel Elisabeth, Hakl Karin, Hammer, Haubner Peter, Hechtl, Heinzl, Hell, Höfinger, Hellerer, Hörl, Hornek, Huainigg; Ikrath; Jarolim; Kaipel, Katzian, Keck, Kirchgatterer, Clickovits, Königsberger-Ludwig, Head, Kößl, Krainer, Herbs, Crist, Kuntzl, Kuzdas; Lapp, Lettenbichler, Lipitsch, Lohfeyer, Lopatka, Lueger Angela; Maier Johann, Marek, Matznetter, Mayer Elmar, Mayer Peter, Muchitsch, Muttonen; Neugebauer Fritz; Oberhauser, Obernosterer; Pendl, Plessl, Prammer, Praßl, Preiner, Prince; Rädler Johann, Rasinger, Riepl, Rudas; Sacher, Schickhofer, Schmeilenschlager, Schönegger Bernd, Schönpass Rosemarie, Schopf, Schultes, Silhavy, Singer, Spindelberger, Stauber Peter, Steibl Ridi Maria, Steindl Konrad, Steßl-Mühlbacher, Stummvoll; Tamandl; Wenninger, Windish, Wittmann Peter, Wöinger, Worm. Members voted with ‘No’: Belakovich-Jenewein, Brosz Dieter, Bucher Josef; Deimek, Dolinschek, Doppler; Fichtenbauer; Gartelgruber, Glavischnig-Piesczek, Grastaur, Graf, Grosz Gerald, Grünewald; Hackl Heinz-Peter, Hagen, Haider, Haubner Ursula, Herbert Werner, Höbart Christian, Hofer, Huber Gerhard, Hübner Johannes; Jarmer, jury; Karlsböck, Kaufmann-Bruckberger, Kickl, Kitzmüller, Kogler, Korun; Lausch, Lichtenecker, Linder, List, Lugar Robert; Markowitz, Mayerhofer, Moser, Mühlberghuber, Musiol; Oils; Petzner, Pirklhuber, Podgorschek; Riemer; Scheibner, Donk, Schwentner, Spadiut, Stefan, Steinhauser, Strache, Strutz; Tadler Erich, Themessl; Van der Bellen, Venier, Vilimsky, Vock; Walser, Westenthaler, Widmann Rainer, Windbüchler-Sushill, Winter; Singer, Zinggl.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00163_d7e9000	We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 3: Draft federal law amending the Federal President's Election Act, including title and receipt in 1846 of the Supplements. This draft also contains constitutional provisions. That is why I note the presence of the constitutional number of Members required for the vote. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this draft to have a positive sign. – This is accepted by a majority. I expressly note the two-thirds majority required by constitution. We shall now proceed to the third reading. If you also give your consent to the draft at third reading, I ask you for your sign. – This is accepted by a majority. In turn, I note the two-thirds majority required by constitution. The draft was therefore adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 4: Draft Federal Act amending the BVG and the Incompatibilities Act, including the title and receipt in 1847 of the Supplements. The Members of Parliament have Magnificence here. Stefan, Dr. Wittmann, Mag. Mr Gerstl, ladies and gentlemen, tabled an amendment. Firstly, we will vote on this amendment, the parts of the draft concerned, and finally on the remaining parts not yet agreed. This draft law also contains amendments to the Constitutional Act. I note, in turn, the presence of the constitutional number of Members required. Firstly, we shall proceed to the vote on the amendment. Stefan, Dr. Wittmann, Mag. Gerstl, colleagues on Article II(5) and (6). [[Oh-your call at the BZÖ.]] Whoever speaks out for these changes, I am looking for a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft and the title and receipt of the Committee's report. Whoever agrees to this, I ask for a positive sign. – This is accepted by a majority. I expressly note the two-thirds majority as required by the Constitution. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who also agree to the draft at third reading to give her a sign on this. – This is accepted by a majority. In turn, I expressly define the two-thirds majority required for constitutional purposes. The draft was therefore adopted at third reading. Vote on agenda item 5: Draft federal law which amends a federal law to ensure transparency in the perception of political and economic interests (lobbying and interest-representation transparency law) and amends the Law on Court Fees, including title and receipt in 1832 of the Supplements. The Members of Parliament have Magnificence here. Donnerbauer, Dr. Jarolim, ladies and gentlemen, tabled an amendment. First of all, I would like to vote on the parts of the draft concerned by the request, and finally on the remaining parts which have not yet been voted on. Since the present draft law contains constitutional provisions, I shall first of all determine the presence of the constitutional number of Members required for the vote. Now more: Debates of the European Parliament Donnerbauer, Dr. Jarolim, colleagues on Article 1 § 15. Whoever joins these changes, I'm looking for a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask for an acceptable sign. – This is accepted by a majority. I note the constitutionally required two-thirds majority. I shall come to the third reading immediately. Those ladies and gentlemen, who also agree to the draft law in third reading, I ask for a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. Here, too, I expressly note the constitutionally required two-thirds majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. Agenda item 6: Draft anti-corruption law 2012 in 1833 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those Members who are in favour of this draft to have a similar sign. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. If you agree to the draft in third reading, I ask for your sign. - That's unanimity. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. vote on the resolution annexed to the 1833 Committee Report on the evaluation of the effectiveness of the criminal law on corruption. Whoever agrees, I ask for a sign. – This is unanimously accepted. (E 257.) The agenda is exhausted. [[16:52:40]] Reading of a part of the Official Protocol
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00163_d7e9177	There is a written request from 20 Members to read the proposed version of the Official Protocol on all items of the agenda so that these parts are deemed approved at the end of the sitting. This will enable immediate decision-making. I shall therefore proceed in this way and read the corresponding parts of the Official Protocol. For a brief preparation of this reading, I must interrupt the session. I'm asking to stay in the hall, it won't take long. The sitting was suspended.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00163_d7e9217	I will resume the interrupted sitting and read the corresponding parts of the Official Protocol: ‘With regard to item 1 to 4, according to § 44 para. 2 GOG unanimously – with the required two-thirds majority – decided to withdraw from the 24-hour delay of the Committee's reports. There is no objection to the President's proposal to negotiate Agenda items 1 to 6. TO point 1: Report of the Constitutional Committee on the Government Template (1782 of the Supplements): Federal Law on the Financing of Political Parties (Parteisgesetz 2012 – PartG) (1844 of the Supplements) TO point 2: Report and request of the Constitutional Committee on the draft Federal Law on Funding of the Federal Government for Political Parties (PartFörG) (1845 of the Supplements) TO point 3: Report and request of the Constitutional Committee on the draft federal law amending the Federal Presidential Election Act 1971 (1846 of the Supplements) TO point 4: Report by the Constitutional Committee on Amendment 1942/A by Dr Josef Cap, Karlheinz Kopf, Members and colleagues on a Federal Act amending the BVG and the Inconsistency Act (1847 of the Supplements) To-do point 5: Report of the Justice Committee on the Government Template (1465 of the Supplements): Federal Act establishing a federal law to ensure transparency in the perception of political and economic interests (lobbying and representation of interests-transparency law – lobbyG) and amending the Law on Court Fees (1832 of Supplements) To point 6: Report by the Committee on Justice, Public Health and Consumer Protection on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. Herbert Donnerbauer, Dr. Johannes Jarolim, Mag. Albert Steinhauser, Gerald Grosz, colleagues on a federal law that amends the Criminal Code and Criminal Procedure Rules 1975 to improve the fight against corruption (Corruption Penal Control Act 2012 – KorrStrÄG 2012), on the motion for a resolution 1467/A(E) by Mr Josef Bucher, colleagues, on the creation of an anti-corruption paragraph for politicians and a reform of the party financing system, as opposed to the demands of the Council of Europe, on the motion for a resolution (Doc. Albert Steinhauser, colleagues and colleagues concerning a federal law with which the Criminal Code BGBI. No. 60/1974, as last amended by BGBI. I No. 111/2010, amended (reliability of the Members' charge), on the motion for a resolution (Doc. Albert Steinhauser, colleagues and colleagues on the reintegration of public enterprises into corruption law and on amendment 1487/A(E) by Mr Mag. Albert Steinhauser, colleagues and colleagues on the criminality of the “federation” (the creation of dependencies by repeated gifts to officials) (1833 of the supplements) The rapporteur presented the print error correction supplement V/1. Deputies Mag. Donnerbauer, Dr. Jarolim, colleagues, tabled the amendment supplement 5/1. There is a request from 20 Members to vote in favour of Supplement II/1. Deputies Dr. Wittmann, Mag. Gerstl, Mag. Kogler, colleagues and others bring the additional and/or Amendment Addendum 1/1. Deputies Mag. Stefan, Dr. Wittmann, Mag. Gerstl, ladies and gentlemen, put the amendment to Supplement 4/1. Votes: To TO point 1: The draft law will be adopted in 1844 in accordance with the Committee's proposal, taking into account the additional and/or supplementary amendments. Amendment amendment Supplement 1/1 was adopted by a majority vote in two-thirds, with the required two-thirds in the presence of the constitutional number of Members at second and third readings. To TO point 2: The draft law, in accordance with the Committee's proposal in 1845, will be put to the vote at second reading by a majority and at the third reading in a native vote. Votes cast: 170 Of which yes-voices:104 No votes: 66 Parliament adopted a resolution Adjournment of the voting part-session from 16.41 a.m. to 16.47 p.m. To TO point 3: The draft law, in accordance with the Committee's proposal in 1846, will be adopted by a majority of two-thirds of the members in second and third reading, with the necessary two-thirds. To TO point 4: The draft law, in accordance with the Committee's proposal in 1847, takes account of the amendment proposal for a supplement 4/1 in the presence of the text. In the second and third readings, the number of Members scheduled for the second and third readings was adopted by a majority of votes, with the required two-thirds. To TO point 5: The draft law, in accordance with the Committee's proposal in 1832, is adopted by a majority of Members in second and third reading, taking into account the amendment proposal Supplement 5/1, with the required two-thirds in the presence of the constitutional number of Members. To TO point 6: The draft law will be adopted unanimously, in accordance with the Committee's proposal in 1833, in the second and third readings. The resolution annexed to the Committee's report 1833 of the Supplements was adopted unanimously. There is a desire according to § 51 para. 6 GOG by 20 Members to read the Official Protocol on all agenda items (Annex I-VI/1).’ Are there any objections to the version or content of those parts of the Official Protocol? This is not the case. The corresponding parts of the Official Protocol shall therefore apply in accordance with section 51 para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure as approved at the end of this sitting. [[17:00:00]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00163_d7e9416	I am still announcing that the self-employed applications 2014/A(E) to 2021/A(E) were submitted at today's meeting. Questions 12083/J to 12101/J were also received. The next meeting of the National Council, held on Wednesday, 4. July, 9 a.m., is envisaged, will be convened in writing. I announce that a meeting will be held in local VIII following this meeting of the main committee. This meeting is closed.
