ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e4889	I'll open the 144. Parliament resolution on the proposal for a European Parliament The Official Protocol of 143. Meeting of 23. In February 2012, the Parliamentary Directorate remained unanswered and undisputed. As preventable are the Members of Parliament Krainer, Mag. Donnerbauer, Gahr, Wöinger, Jannach, Kickl, Mag. Brunner, Dr. Grünewald and Mag. Jarmer. Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e4920	For this meeting, the Federal Chancellery on the representation of members of the Federal Government made the following statement: The Federal Minister for Women and Public Service Gabriele Heinisch-Hosek is the Federal Minister for Education, Arts and Culture Dr. Claudia Schmied and the Federal Minister for Agriculture, Forestry, Environment and Water Management Dipl.-Ing. Nikolaus Berlakovich is represented by the Federal Minister for Finance Dr. Maria Fekter. I announce that the ORF will transfer the current hour from now until expected 10 a.m. to ORF 2 live. ORF III will transfer the entire session live. [[09:08:16]] Current hour
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e4965	We are now arriving at the current hour on the subject: “Investments in transport infrastructure: responsibly save, wisely invest, allow growth!” First of all, Mr Heinzl has spoken. The speaking time is 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e4992	Nice morning, ladies and gentlemen! Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen here in the House! In Spain 48 percent of all young people are without jobs, in Greece it is 47 percent, and in hardly any EU country youth unemployment is less than 20 percent. I mean, thanks to the targeted measures of the Federal Government, Austria has the lowest youth unemployment in Europe. There is even a training guarantee until the 18th century. Year of life. But also for older workers, Austria is with the number of employees in the top international field. The fact that Austria, ladies and gentlemen, has managed to cope well with the crisis compared with the other countries is essentially, as I say, at consistent and targeted actions of our Federal Government. And while social conflicts – often also bloody – are carried out on the streets elsewhere, Austria is also a stable and safe country in difficult times. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] With targeted investments in infrastructure, thermal renovation, renewable energy sources, education and research, the Federal Government has successfully set growth impulses for the domestic economy. We have invested in work and not in unemployed people, and every euro we have invested has been twice as valuable: The state has saved millions of social expenditure, and each individual who remains in employment has been spared the unpleasant financial and psychological consequences of unemployment. Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! Hundreds of kilometers of the Austrian railway network are still from the Kaiserzeit. I believe that this is no longer in line with the requirements of modern, fast and convenient public transport, each of us is clear. Austria's rail needs simply to be modernised, which is why the largest infrastructure development programme in the history of the Second Republic is currently running. There is a clear political objective, and this means: Extension of the rail before the road is extended. This is a clear commitment to public transport – this is also found in the budget. From 2012 to 2016, around €10 billion will flow, which will be around two thirds of the total investment of the Federal Ministry of Transport, in investment, in the expansion of the rail sector. But also in the direction of environmental protection, an important signal – as I mean, very important – is set: Through the shift of traffic throughout Austria, 5 million tonnes of CO2 are saved per year. Thank you, Mrs Federal Minister, for your letter of protest to Commissioner Kallas, Commissioner for Transport. Because of the increased fuel prices, the European freight lobby has demanded that the EU grant a cross-border traffic permit for the gigaliners, for which monster trucks – you know: 25 metres long, 60 tons heavy – and our Mrs. Federal Minister protested to the EU. Thank you very much for that! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This would be exactly the wrong step, namely the shift from rail to road. Ladies and gentlemen! Let me also make one clear: The massive expansion of the railway infrastructure in Austria has been overdue for a long time. As I have said, 70 percent of the rail network is still from the period of monarchy. And only for comparison: That's like we've got better ground roads instead of our highways today. The rail is – and in this we agree, I believe, the backbone for a powerful, economic and environmentally friendly transport system. The expansion of rail is also the guarantee of mobility for the population and the economy in times of increasing fuel prices. Ladies and gentlemen! When we think of the expansion of the rail, we also think of the big, billion-heavy projects, such as the extension of the southern railway with the Semmering Base Tunnel, the Koralmbahn and the Brennerbahn. Although these projects are very spectacular, it would be wrong to reduce the expansion of the railway in Austria to these three megastructures. Throughout the country, from Vorarlberg to Burgenland, dozens of railway stations have been modernized. Insert a lift into a train station, which may not be so spectacular. Being tacular like a billion big project, but with it, for example, mothers with prams, elderly and disabled people will facilitate their lives. And I think it is precisely these small investments that make a big contribution to supporting the local economy, because they are cooperating with regional companies. But overall investment in infrastructure is also a profit for our country. Economic research institutes IHS and WIFO have calculated that for each euro invested, €2.1 will return to the state as part of the re-route profitability. In addition, 40 000 jobs are permanently secured or newly created by the development projects. In a 30-year period of operation, 48 500 new permanent jobs will be created in accordance with the current framework. Ladies and gentlemen! Investments in Austria's infrastructure will certainly bring positive impetus to the country, but it is nevertheless important to spend the existing euro specifically in the transport sector in view of limited budget resources. Investing smartly, saving responsibly is therefore the highest ceiling in the ongoing budget consolidation. By 2016, therefore, the Federal Ministry of Transport will save € 1 billion. Investments for the years 2012 to 2016 will be reduced from – as planned – € 10.8 billion to € 9.8 billion. The savings in the years 2012 to 2016 come to three quarters of the large projects Brenner-Base Tunnel, Koralmbahn and Semmering-Base Tunnel, and a quarter of the savings volume is realized through the shift and redimensional of other projects. Ladies and gentlemen! The optimization of the construction measures on the southern track alone results in a savings potential of around € 300 million. From the point of view of transport policy, it is also useful that the Koralmbahn and the Semmering Base Tunnel operate simultaneously, i.e. 2023/2024. The second largest crumb, with €450 million in savings, is the Brenner Base Tunnel. Austria continues to commit itself to the construction of the tunnel, but also our partners in the EU, and especially Italy, must make their contribution. And the new schedule gives us the opportunity to explain the financing with our partner in the longer term. In addition, the cessation of the early retirements prescribed by the company will contribute significantly to consolidation by the ÖBB. In the area of the Ministry of Transport, the €525 million will be in savings by 2016. Even more to save would have meant calling into question the long-term expansion of the environmentally friendly rail. Ladies and gentlemen, it is also important to note: As a result of the savings, there are no cuts in the quality of the network, of the customer network and of course not of the rail network. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] Finally, Madam President: Mrs Bures, the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs, has tied up a package of consolidations that is responsible and forward-looking, and I would like to thank her very much for that.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e5103	Mrs Bures spoke on a preliminary opinion. The speaking time should not exceed 10 minutes. - Please, Mrs. Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e5126	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! [[Members of the BZÖ will be detaching a transparency.]] I would like to thank you for being able to discuss such an important issue, namely the expansion of infrastructure in Austria, today at the beginning of this meeting of the National Council. It is a subject that actually affects every person in our country, whether young or old, whether in the city or in the country. It is therefore very important that we look at what we can do in Austria to keep the economy in motion and build up a modern infrastructure.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e5150	Mrs. Federal Minister, one second! I should like to ask colleagues in the BZÖ to return to the transparency. [[The Transparent will be shipped again.]] Please, Mrs. Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e5175	Ladies and gentlemen! We know a lot about how traffic will develop in the future. There are countless studies, traffic forecasts, which in the area of transport, the mobility of people, but also the transport of goods by 2020 – and that is soon to be expected – of an increase of 25 percent, i.e. a quarter more in traffic. As so often in life, there are two ways to deal with it: The first possibility is a bird-traffic policy, put your head in the sand and think it's going to work somehow, and the second is to meet the great challenge, namely the urge for mobility, even with all negative accompanying phenomena and wisely invest in the infrastructure of our country and thus in the future. I want to quote Willy Brandt. Willy Brandt said: “The best way to predict the future is to shape it.” And I think that's the job we've got: We need to shape the future for our children in such a way that they have a high quality of life and, despite the desire for the greatest mobility, they still have air to breathe. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The Austrian Federal Government has taken the task of obtaining a margin very seriously and has therefore bound up an ambitious consolidation and stability package. Also in my resort, in the transport resort, we have turned every euro ten times and looked at where investments actually make sense and where we can benefit from savings potential. I presented the result. We will save a billion euros in the area of rail expansion by 2016. In the field of road construction in Austria, we are going to make almost three times as much savings, namely 2.8 billion, and we have saved not only on a sustainable basis, but also on the basis of a system change in early pensions, namely by stopping early pensions at the Austrian Federal Railways. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] But I am convinced, ladies and gentlemen, that savings will not save either Austria or Europe alone. We know many examples in Europe, where one sees the disastrous effects of a dead and broken car in a country. That's not our goal. Our goal is to invest wisely. Christoph Leitl said yesterday in the "Mitagsjournal" that economic growth is the most important contribution, more than all savings packages are capable of. This is particularly evident in the infrastructure. We face three major, central challenges: firstly, to renovate our budget, second, to secure our good Austrian social system, and thirdly, to ensure growth and employment in our country, to prevent unemployment in Austria and to continue to remain that country in Europe with the lowest unemployment rate. That is the central objective of this federal government. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] All economic research institutes, whether it is the IHS or the WIFO, and also the OECD clearly say that investments in infrastructure stimulate the economy. They create employment, secure jobs and strengthen the economic location, which is important for Austria in the European but also in the global context. Therefore, yes to saving, yes to investments in environmentally friendly mobility. Yes, of course it costs money. In spite of all the savings measures, we will invest almost €10 billion in the railways of our country in order to modernise them and thus guarantee environmentally friendly mobility. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I know that discussions about tunnel projects are being held over and over again. The Austrian Federal Anthem begins with the words “Land of the Mountains”. It is therefore necessary for the railways to overcome these mountains as well. Tunnel construction is therefore an essential element. From these investments in the infrastructure of the railway flows more than half, i.e. more than every second euro into our existing network, to the railway lines we want to modernise, to the routes we want to make safer – railway crossings are made safer to avoid accidents – to modernisation in order to increase comfort for the passengers and to allow them to travel faster and on time by rail. Furthermore, the modernisation of a hundred Austrian railway stations is financed in order to make it friendly and accessible to all the people of our country. These construction projects are, as has been said, putting great employment impulses. Investments from a billion will guarantee 17 000 jobs, which are jobs in construction companies, in large technology companies, but also in small crafts, commercial and subcontractors in our country. This means that mines, detonators, civil engineers, mechanics, chemists, geologists, lockers – a number of highly qualified people who also perform their daily performance for a modern train in this country. The construction of a railway tunnel is not only a major technical challenge, it is also a place of research and testing of new technologies in our country, where new developments can actually be practised and technological breakthroughs can be achieved. Austria exports this know-how to the whole world, we are recognized in the field of tunnel and railway technology worldwide. We not only support neighbouring Switzerland, but also work in China and Chile, and we provide our know-how in the field of High Tech to many European countries. An example: Every second tunnel, which is being built on the world today, is built according to the Austrian tunnel construction method with our know-how. We can be proud of that. But I know there is a lot of skepticism in large projects. I found a quote in a daily newspaper, which reads: The planned tunnel increasingly encounters rejection of residents, politicians and conservationists. They're trying to bring down the billion-dollar railway project. – It could be believed that it is the coral tunnel or the Brenner Base Tunnel. Far from it, this quote is 15 years old. It was written when it was about the Lainzer tunnel. It is also called the “wild boar tunnel” and is thereby defamated. This tunnel will go into operation in ten months. And this railway tunnel, against which the scepticism of major projects was made mobile at the time, will make it possible for the journey time from Vienna-Zentrum to St. Pölten-Zentrum to be only 25 minutes. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] From Linz-Zentrum you will be at Schwechat Airport in one and a half hours instead of two and a half hours. So these are infrastructure projects that are very competitive at the beginning. Zig thousands of people living west of Vienna, who work and live in this catchment area, however, are looking forward to having a fast and modern railway in the future, which will take them to their destination in ten minutes. Ladies and gentlemen! While the focus is on investment on the rails, we try to save three times as much on the road. We have looked at every road construction project in Austria and act according to a clear directive: We only build and invest where it actually benefits people. That is, we invest a lot in road safety, for example in the areas of protection against ghost drivers and the protection of motorbikes. We only build new roads where they are really used, and of course we only build as it really is needed. That means not every road must also be a motorway. A small example where you can see this well: Some 800 people live in a small village in Burgenland, in Mannersdorf. There are a hundred children living there who go to school or kindergarten. In the middle of the local area of Mannersdorf, 500 trucks travel every day and endanger the children on the school path. This also means poor quality of life for the inhabitants of this place. Together with the Land of Burgenland, we have succeeded in building a highway that can be built faster. Local traffic is built to relieve people of truck traffic, and this is less money; the savings potential is € 83 million. Construction will begin soon, which means that people can breathe there in the future. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, in transport policy one has to look over the edge of the plate, since one has to think long-term and gain the trust of people. In the case of projects, we also need to make clear the benefits for our country and for employment. My aim is not to limit mobility despite scarceer resources, despite scarceer resources, when dealing with our environment in a gentle manner, but to actually shape mobility socially and environmentally. I am convinced that the mobility of people, but also the mobility of goods, is the basis of the prosperity of our homeland. - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e5296	I draw attention to the fact that the speaking time of the other speakers according to § 97a Para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure shall not exceed 5 minutes. Mrs Binder-Maier is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e5322	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Budget consolidation means looking at all areas of how the existing funds can be used efficiently and sparingly and how the existing money can be shared. What is very important to me, and what the Federal Minister has already done, is that, in spite of the savings, we should not neglect looking to the future, that we must consider, above all, how Austria should continue to develop and what measures are important. Infrastructure measures, investment in infrastructure, ladies and gentlemen, are investments in the environment, in the economic location, in employment, in security and in the quality of life of our country. As has already been said, it is saved, above all also in the Ministry of Transport, but nevertheless invested. A total of € 1 billion will be saved in the rail sector by 2016. On the other hand, investments amounting to €9.8 billion by 2016. On the road a savings volume of 2.8 billion is realized. The total investment will amount to € 6.5 billion by 2016. A large package, a large project that the Minister has undertaken. Nevertheless, ladies and gentlemen, it is important for us to continue modernising the rail network, enabling growth and ensuring employment, because above all the rail, the railway is the guarantee that we continue to have a powerful, economic and environmentally friendly transport system. The goal will be not to make any marks on quality and to put customer benefits in the foreground. Security has priority. My priority, ladies and gentlemen, is, among other things, the question of mobility. Some thoughts about this from the Österreich Transport Club. Mobility is a fundamental condition for a diverse social life. Being mobile makes it possible to participate in public life, and ensures social integration. A well-developed public transport network and access to mobility as accessible as possible are indicators of the prosperity of a society, because mobility poverty limits participation in social life, and that cannot be in our sense. The basic guarantee of mobility needs sufficient financial resources. A good public transport network and social services guarantee basic human security. Ladies and gentlemen, how does the public transport network in Austria look? – Bus and train ensure mobility for many people. A total of 56 percent of the population, which is 4.6 million, depend entirely or partly on public transport. So the statements of the VCÖ. And a few more facts about the Austrian Bundesbahnen: 460 million passengers per year, more than 40 000 jobs are secured, almost 2,000 apprentices are trained. Thus, the ÖBB are the largest technical apprentice trainer in Austria. Well-trained young people are necessary to maintain the high quality of the Austrian Federal Railways. Ladies and gentlemen, the Austrians are the second most active public drivers in the EU. In the previous year, about 2 910 kilometres were returned per person. The figures underline the importance of public transport. We can be proud of the employees also and especially the Company ÖBB. We are proud of the company ÖBB and are convinced that the path taken by the Minister is the right one.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e5378	Mr Bartenstein is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e5399	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Transport infrastructure is without question of great importance for a country. Transport infrastructure is a public task in many ways, not all at all. However, transport infrastructure is also expensive and is becoming increasingly expensive and cannot therefore be completely left out at times of a savings package. I agree with much of what has been said so far by the Minister and by the colleagues of the Government. But let me say: Transport infrastructure is not only railway, transport infrastructure is not only ÖBB, but we have transport infrastructure in terms of road in Austria, we have in Austria, when I think of Hub Vienna and other airports to provide transport infrastructure for air transport, of course. That's what it's all about. While I defend myself a bit far, ladies and gentlemen, the subversive attempt is not here and today, but elsewhere, to play track and road against each other. We need both, both evenly. Both have their place, both should be sustainable. But, as I said, not one in front of another. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In some cases, the road of the track has gone ahead. It has been a few months since there was a very remarkable bill here, which, in agreement with the countries, has saved 500 million euros at a time – Mrs Minister, you can remember – through publishing road projects into country competence, through savings, through redimensionals. Overall, I believe that in terms of financeability, the responsible, financing of infrastructure, the rails are already some of the road that ÖBB might look away from the ASFINAG. Because what is in debt – even the ASFINAG has debt, no question, the ASFINAG has billions of debt, which goes towards 13, 14 billion € – is long-term responsibility, is coverage, and it is foreseeable how the revenue of the ASFINAG of this debt mountain can then be reduced once again. And we have now taken an important step forward at the ÖBB. But get to the heart, we're not there yet. Nevertheless, as has been said, first steps must also be recognized. It should be acknowledged that parts of this savings package – from my point of view rather at the bottom than at the top, but parts of this savings package – also include savings measures in the field of the ÖBB. The Minister has said that about a billion in infrastructure over five years, which is 200 million a year – I repeat: at the bottom of the opportunities – about 500 million in early pensions by the stop you had, thus a total contribution of 5 percent to the savings package. That's not little. That's to be recognized. In spite of all the unconfirmed calls, which have sometimes been heard from the opposition ranks, the tunnel-leading projects have not been called into question, not from the principle, not from the point of view. Mr Heinzl already has it executed: From today's point of view, the South Railway will be completed with the Semmering tunnel and the Koralm Tunnel until 2023. Concrete: The construction work now starts at the Semmering Base Tunnel. At the Brenner Base Tunnel, the first tunnel throughput took place. So you can also save there, but the projects are neither questioned nor stopped, but are continued. And that, ladies and gentlemen, is good. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] A first step calls for further steps to be taken. This is absolutely given from my point of view in terms of ÖBB. I believe that Austria should, of course, invest in the railway infrastructure, but that we Austrians invest more than Swisss, about twice as much as the French and the English are investing, about four times as much as the Germans, that seems to me, as I said, to be at the top of the European bar now – and: 200 million per year are a first step; others could follow. In general, the ÖBB will not be prevented from letting jealousy be paralysed in terms of reform. I recognise that ÖBB management, including the Supervisory Board and, of course, you, Mrs. Minister, have contributed to the discussion in recent weeks, at least once in a small circle. If this is so in the public, in the media discussion, then it is all the more obvious to welcome it. But hand to heart! – if I communicate to you a number that I have from the financial sector, which in principle is always right in this country, if I communicate a number to you at the conclusion, which reads: What happened to the ÖBB about pensions in 2011?, that is already of interest. 1 067 ÖBBlers were retired last year. Do you know, Mrs. Federal Minister, how many of these 1 067 ÖBBs have gone to the normal retirement pension for age reasons? – Just 37, that is less than 4 percent. In the field of ÖBB, it certainly needs even more reformism – reform zeal, which leads to a considerable increase in the retirement age there, in the direction of all the other citizens in that country.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e5472	Mr Dr. Strutz is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e5494	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The fact that the Social Democratic Party has actually lost every reference to reality and no longer really knows what the real problems of the Austrians are, what burns them under the nails, probably shows the theme choice for today's hour. While the Austrians have the largest tax package to carry out in the history of Austria, because the Federal Government has to distribute billions of gifts to the pleitegries, while the pensions are being reduced and the Austrians do not yet know how long they will have to work in the future, while existing contracts intervene, in construction savings contracts shamelessly, choose such a topic. This, Mrs. Federal Minister, is meeting the house builders. This is actually the case with the construction industry. This is true of those who work daily in the infrastructure sector and are employed there. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] While massive savings are being made in the health sector, see AKH Vienna, where, due to savings from doctors, there are life-threatening conditions from nursing staff, while massive cuts in our social fabric threaten to occur, as people can no longer afford to heat their homes and one no longer knows how to finance the petrol for his car, at that time the SPÖ considers it to be current and urgent to discuss investment in the transport infrastructure. It's nice to tell you that a tunnel project that started 15-20 years ago is now being completed. It's nice to tell you that the Semmering Base Tunnel is being built. But it will soon occur in Austria that there will no longer be a car on the motorways, on the roads, because the Austrians can no longer afford the petrol for the operation of their cars. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: Such a fool!]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In 2006 the litre of petrol cost 80 cents, now 1.50 € and more. This is a prize-winner that this Federal Government is responsible for. [[New welcome to the FPÖ.]] Mrs Bundesminister, when we discuss infrastructure, we are also discussing these prize-winners, who have two reasons. One is the desire for profit from the mineral oil industry. Every excuse is right to raise the fuel price; whether it was the crisis in Egypt, whether it was Libya, the fuel price was raised. Now that we have stable conditions again: Did you hear he was lowered? No, no, no, The OMV writes record profits, and the managers pay themselves juicy bonuses at the end of the year. The second reason for this rise in the price of petrol is the downfall, the shameless downfall of the Minister of Finance. You, ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ and ÖVP, have agreed to increase the oil tax. 50 percent of each spray that is covered flows into the budget. And you simply have to realize that an overly high fuel price is a rigorous economic damage, because each semi-trailer is transported by motor vehicle, for example, and the spray price is actually also a result of every product. In view of the fact that 700 000 Austrians already cannot afford to be called, in view of this fact, we demand a price stop and a time-limited official price control from the liberals today as an important measure. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We call on Federal Minister Mitterlehner, as Minister of Economic Affairs, to adopt a price regulation based on our price law set out in the Constitution, which is also obliged, as soon as a certain unwarranted price level has been reached, in order to prevent a national economic disadvantage, to do so. However, we also need a package of measures in order to be able to actually boost these infrastructure measures, namely by increasing the rate of penalty and adjusting the amount of kilometres. In the meantime, the fact has occurred in Austria – I conclude – that a half-day worker who travels 30 kilometres to work every day has practically a zero-sum game in working life because she needs her car. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign]] We are today presenting a motion for a resolution within the framework of the measures we are still going to put in place in Parliament, and I would ask you to support them as well.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e5577	Now Mrs. Club Chairman Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e5598	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. Last week, the Federal Government presented the savings package from this point of view, and it has just become clear that there are such and such in the savings package. The lower incomes are certainly over-proportionally burdened, the wealthes remain largely spared. And today the Minister of Transport comes to the house and says that she has turned every euro ten times in her department. So I don't think you do, and we're going to disprove it to you. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] In the transport sector, the philosophy of the 1970s still prevails. I do not know if you know who has the densest motorway network in Europe. This is Greece. Austria is already coming in second place. We have a very luxurious highway and highway network. In the field of public transport, it looks pretty gloomy. I do not think that we are in second place in Europe. On the contrary! I don't want to know where we are. Of course: Durable mobility for all, but still completely unreflected in the next few years, without thinking a little about whether it is necessary, in fact, to bring another €6 billion into the road construction, so from my point of view, that is no longer portable, especially if you have also spoken about youth. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] In the field of education, we are starving, but then there are projects that no one can understand anymore. Let me give you an example. The Linzer Westring, which is 4 kilometres of motorway, 4 kilometres of city car, would never be planned like this today, four-track, in a city where there is a very poor air quality and the children have health problems. [[Abg. Neubauer: That's not true! That's nonsense!]] 4 kilometers! This costs more than half a billion euros. [[Abg. Rädler: And the pendlers stay in the forest?- Oh, my God!]] If you say you turned every euro ten times, I can only be surprised. This project is actually part of the dungy of transport policy. I'm really saying that in this drama. Half a billion! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Neubauer: They were not yet visible in Linz at all! Such a fool!]] And there are a few more examples. In Austria, motorways are extended towards the Czech Republic, keyword “Nord motorway”, where there is no connection on the Czech side. You still can't comfortably travel to Bratislava by train. And if you would perhaps want to link the second and third largest city of Austria properly, namely Graz and Salzburg, then you get the answer from the ÖBB, that is not the basic service contract of the ÖBB. Between Salzburg and Linz! You have to imagine that. But on the other hand completely unreflected: billions. Billions! We would like from you once, Mrs Minister, that you not only give in to the wishes of a head of state, but that you simply save yourself from such crazy projects, which he is thinking of but which do not have any transport policy relevance. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Stopping pointless motorway projects – that would have been an essential contribution to saving. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Bartenstein.]] Mr Bartenstein! You can talk about it. Of course, we need a road network, but I do not know if we should continue to achieve luxury in one of Europe's best-developed countries. [[Abg. Wheeler: ÖBB!]] – We are not ready for the ÖBB. And there are still some wonderful opportunities to raise money for the budget in transport policy. They have brought the example of children living in a place passing through the truck. Why are trucks going through towns in Austria? You have described a bypass problem, but the main reason is of course: Toll refugees. We don't have a comprehensive truck toll. That is why many trucks travel through the villages, not on the highway and on the highway. And I don't understand. Why is it not possible to do so in a comprehensive manner, as in many other countries of Europe? That's not a problem at all. Why is there a basic tax exemption for transport areas? I think the parking spaces outside the airport are a gold pit, a true gold pit. Why don't you pay a basic tax? Why do shopping centres pay no basic tax for their parking? Why are there such privileges in this area? On the other hand, people who may no longer be able to afford to cut in properly with the savings package, namely the weakest in incomes. Mrs Minister, I ask you to: If you say something like “a euro turned ten times”, then do it in fact and look into this area once with attentive, with reasonable eyes. You can save a lot of money reasonably here. You can also take a lot of money reasonably without burdening more people by simply taxing economic areas that write high profits – by the way, the airport Vienna-Schweichat – and finally abolishing such privileges. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e5718	Mr Klubobmann Bucher is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e5739	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Many will probably ask themselves rightly today: What about this SPÖ, which would have the opportunity to choose a current topic at a current hour? The issue that you have chosen, namely infrastructure, transport infrastructure, is not a good choice for a workers' movement or one-time workers' movement like SPÖ, because exactly on this issue you have worked at least, ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ, as far as the savings targets are concerned. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Let's be honest: Mrs Infrastructural Minister, you are doing nothing but slowing down and moving everything into the future on all these projects that you have listed. That's your concept. It is not true that you are actually putting on the savings pen somewhere, but you are primarily delaying the projects to save a little money. And that is something we criticize, because it would be much more reasonable to quickly implement the entire projects now, to make real employment-effective investments, not to build the entrance tunnel, as in tunnel projects, but to save the exit tunnel, so to speak. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: such a nonsense!]] This is not a measure that we are also convinced that you know what you are actually doing. They also listed ÖBB as an infrastructure company number one of this Republic. Yeah, there's a lot to save. I hope that Mr Haberzettl will also lose a word on this. That, ladies and gentlemen, is probably one of the greatest sins of the Republic, these ÖBB. This brings in €5 billion per year and takes over €2 billion of liabilities per year, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Deimek: 7 billion!]] You have to let that break on your tongue. 7 billion € costs this company, which is basically a SPÖ precursor organization and nothing else. [[Abg. Heinzl: Such a nonsense!]] They are the owners of the ÖBB when I look into the left sector, the SPÖ, which has all this to owe, actually has to blame. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The ÖBB, ladies and gentlemen, alone the ÖBB will have €65 billion in debt in 2017. This is why I am telling you because I hope you still remember the amount of the budget, the last budget you decided here on the presentation of the Federal Government. This was as high as it was almost the same: 65 billion €. This is only the debt of the ÖBB. You should not forget that and face up to it once. But this scrapping package is a pure mogel pack. We have described it as such from the beginning, because you should know and know – even you, as an infrastructure minister – that there will be large hidden bombs on you. The Greece Help Package number three is added. It is also necessary to add an economic recovery package over the next few months. You have to see that the economic engine is back in motion, and you will have to make investments. It is already apparent today that the banks will need money. The Volksbank has now been served by the taxpayer with a billion dollars. The next bank to settle is the municipal loan. To keep them above water, the taxpayer will have to bleeding again. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, why do I say that? – We have all excited ourselves in this house about the Hypo Alpe-Adria bank, and the Reds in particular have complained about what these are. To date, the Hypo Alpe-Adria bank has cost the taxpayer €1.5 billion. The municipal credit, which will always be kept silent by the reds, because Mrs. Schmied was sitting on the board of directors, has now cost the taxpayer over €5 billion. There's nothing about it, ladies and gentlemen, and that's why you have to tell the Austrians. [[In the case of BZÖ and FPÖ, as well as of the Abg. Tadler.]] But we know that's all a business, a business for the taxpayer. – That’s what ÖVP has explained to us time and again. This federal government is the purest burden, a single burden on the people of our country. We see this also because of the recent development of mineral oil prices in the taps. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, Join our boycott! ==References== In March, we should show the oil companies what power the drivers have in this country. We boycott on 1st. March the gas stations and don't go refuelling. That would be a clear signal, a sense of solidarity to the commuters in our country. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] We want to move this forward from the BZÖ. It is not a question of believing and hoping that we will force them into our knees, but that is a little solidarity towards those who cannot give up on the car. We've been saying: Enough paid!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e5838	Mr Haberzettl is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e5870	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs. Federal Minister! In fact, it is a strange pleasure for an employee of the ÖBB to give a speech to the honourable Member Bucher. First of all, we can see how high the degree of ignorance on this issue is, Mr Bucher. But the second is already: If you say that the ÖBB is overindebted and almost driven to the wall, I'll ask you about the names of the graves. [[Abg. Bucher: Why did you have to go from the ÖBB?]] They have a name called Gorbach and Kukacka. These are the graves of the ÖBB. [[Congratulations and bravoruf at SPÖ.]] And Gorbach is a party colleague from your ranks. Then let us mention that. In reality, this was the unfortunate Federal Railway Structure Act. [[MEPs Scheibner and Petzner: look at the numbers!]] In fact, however, we really want to finish infrastructure investment. [[Abg. Scheibner: Why did you have to go, Mr Haberzettl?]] Under the leadership of the Federal Ministers, I believe that we have really managed to make reasonable savings in infrastructure in the high investment framework, which can also be seen critically in connection with labour market development: For example, € 450 million will be saved at the burner without the project really being put at risk. – I just remember: The first to resist infrastructure savings were also the national leaders, especially the Tyroleans! In the area of coral tunnel development, 260 million are achieved over a proper shift, while in a project like the Koralm one year shift is not really the disaster. The Semmering-Base Tunnel project is re-dimensioned by 40 million, and several projects are not only re-dimensioned by 250 million shifts. – That all results in all around one billion. These redimensional measures are, of course, a gratification between the necessary savings on the one hand and an absolutely necessary development on the other, because the transport forecasts all prove huge infrastructure needs in all transport sectors and in particular in the rail sector. However, I must also briefly explain a link between infrastructure policy and, ultimately, the quality of transport: We will not succeed in coming from Vienna to Salzburg in a relatively short time, if we do not invest anything. However, we will not be able to sell a decent, high-quality transport performance without a high quality of the infrastructure. Without prejudice to those who provide this transport, the time and quality factor must be taken into account here. Mr Glawischnig has left the hall now, but I would like to mention here: The quality of Austrian local transport is second in the European benchmark among 27 countries. – This is the success of Austrian transport policy! [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Kogler.]] I can also talk about the price component. In Holland, by 30 percent more, in Germany by 27 percent more, and in Switzerland by 32 percent more are paid for local transport services. – This is a living social policy in the field of transport policy, and it is also a performance of social democratic transport policy! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! Now I would like to add a general aspect of the investment policy in the area of transport infrastructure: The investment policy in transport policy is not only self-evident, but of course we have to keep in mind the question of economic development on the path of location policy. Reasonable investment policy is also social policy, because it is not indifferent where there are transport routes and where there is not. Finally, it is about the basic transport policy provision of the population, and I do not think I need to mention separately that transport policy is also environmental policy. The fact that investment policy is also labour market policy is good, and I would ask the Federal Ministers to use this instrument sufficiently in the sense of labour market policy. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] However, the fact that transport policy is also a regional policy should have been avoided here from time to time. I think we see from these individual factors that transport policy is really social policy. And I should like to congratulate you on this factor, Mrs Federal Minister. As part of the savings programme, you have also succeeded in achieving proper social policy development in the area of transport policy.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e5961	Mrs Mag. Hakl is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e5982	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I would like to begin by saying that the job of the Federal Minister for Transport is not social policy. We have a social minister who does good work! [[Demonstrative applause by representatives of the SPÖ.]] Mrs Bundesminister, I am glad that a very important project has finally been implemented, namely the termination of unbearable early retirements at ÖBB. 72 000 ÖBB-pensionists are already facing 42 000 employees today. – I remember: In the course of my work at Brenner Eisenbahn GmbH, when we urgently needed experts, we had to be 45-year-olds. At the time, they were paid 2,000 schillings per day or half-day because of the lack of experts at the ÖBB because they were already in early retirement. If Mr Haberzettl said earlier that it was so social, so low prices for the Austrian Federal Railways and for Austrian Transport, then that might be the right thing. I just have to say, People also need to know that every single one of them, from infant to grey, pays €840 a year alone for the Austrian federal railways, without having solved a single ticket! – What, Mr Haberzettl, is it social? [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It is rather the case that the ÖBB is a social case and we must see that we are putting this important company, which is very much on my feet. These reforms are a first, very important step, and I would like to thank you, Mrs Federal Minister, and I also thank you for not having taken a false step in the infrastructure projects that are so important and which are really important in transport policy! I'm thinking about the Brenner Tunnel now: This is a route through which more freight traffic than in total all other Alpine crossings are carried throughout Europe. It would be an insanity to simply delete this project, which is still paid to do so to a third of the EU and to a third of Italy, just because the Austrian federal railways in the East-West direction earn their money and not in the North-South direction. It is absolutely legitimate, however, to redimensional it, to reduce it and to make savings everywhere. An experience recently in Austria: I'm driving a lot more by train now than I used to, I have a little kid. You come to the train station with the pram, the suitcase, the wrap pocket, the handbag, the computer bag and try to get to the train. You come to the platform where the rail jet is supposed to go. There is a smoking ÖBB employee. One asks: Where's the children's department? – He says: Well, the train leaves in seven minutes, the children's section is in 23. Waggon, you can't do this with all the luggage! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinzl.]] You turn around and ask: When is the next West Railway going from Vienna to the West? – Two platforms continue, 15 minutes later the Westbahn starts. You enter, completely unloaded, without a level, move the suitcase here, because the pram, and that works. This is actually the quality that railway drivers in Austria expect! It is a mystery to me why our Austrian Federal Railways still have no barrier-free entrances to the wagons! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of FPÖ and Greens.]] There is a lack of investment! Such a thing must offer a good service. It is clear that the Westbahn is now selecting the “Zuckerl” – under quotation marks. But how important this competition is will become clear first when you read the announcements in the railjet: Soon the ÖBB Wireless LAN also offer on all trains. I have been begging for ten years that you can work in a train at least if it takes almost five hours to get from Innsbruck to Vienna! I have long required that the mobile phone works, that there is wireless LAN and that a corresponding service is offered. But only now, with a working competitor on the scene does this happen! Mrs Bundesminister, we must put this important business, in which many people do good work, on healthy legs, and an end to early retirements must only be a first step! If the ÖBB still has 42 000 employees and the Swiss railways in a country of the same size only 28 000 people, but at the same time excellent quality, namely the best quality in Europe, both in the perso- This is the first time that we have been able to find a solution to this problem. There must be a mobility boost within the ÖBB, that the staff can be moved from one department to another and must not be retired. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] I thank and hope that these reforms will come soon.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e6076	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Deimek is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e6097	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! As a little brave, moving or actually kissing, I have already felt the topic of the current hour today! If you claim that – perhaps in the aviation sector – responsibility is saved, smart investment is made and growth at the ÖBB is allowed, then we want to look at it in detail today! If today, and precisely today, at the AUA Supervisory Board meeting instead of growth and long distance, as one might have expected, a restructuring is being carried out to a Vienna Cityliner under the roof of the Tyrol, or possibly even threatens an insolvency, then there is a clear responsibility for this! And that is not what it is called in the media today and is written everywhere in the newspapers, the workforce, but the responsible ones are sitting in this Federal Government on both sides! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] First of all, there is a passenger tax. We've already fought these liberals with the little planes. But it still applies to the great general aviation, and it still applies mainly to the liners. To date, Mrs Fekter has not been able to abolish this excessive levy, which has already been abolished or at least cut off elsewhere. That's not market economy! In addition, fuel costs are still subject to oil supply costs. Mr Mitterlehner was somewhat surprised when he first learned about it in autumn. I'm surprised that a minister is surprised at what he's filed with fees! But he is still unable to bring this tax, which is more than twice as high as that of Germany, which is the triple of the Swiss or the quadruple of the Dutch stockpiles, down to a normal market economy level. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The only person who responded was Vienna Airport, which, although always claiming to have the cheapest costs, was the only one who responded. But at least there you are ready to talk, because the rulers there know very well that if the AUA pleads, it goes down the stream with the airport as well. That's how we come to BMVIT. To date, the Roadmap aeronautics announced and presented in September has not been implemented. And the Austro control: the purest pile! I hate to say that, but it's 100 percent right! It is 25 percent more expensive with its fees than the Germans. Teurers are only the English, but these offer a much better service. And if, in connection with the upcoming LFG-Novelle, we eagerly expect something to change, then I say that until today I know only that we probably have three aviation authorities instead of two and that we will have seven authorities with the criminal authorities. I wonder who to pay for it, because that's expensive enough! € 150 million these two parties could Save today and give the AUA, which needs 200 million €. But to this day, apart from waving the earwashing and writing a few letters from BMVIT to the Ministry of Finance, they have not brought anything together! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If today AUA may be pleading if it is downgraded to Vienna Cityliner, if the airport is ruined by ruining the site of Vienna and Austria as a whole, it is also known in Austria where the responsible ones are sitting, namely on these two sides of Parliament! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] So far, the red-white-red rear fin has always been very important, but today it seems nothing more! Mrs Bures, we come to another field in the transport resort. You first said that the country had built Burgenland by €83 million cheaper than the federal government or ASFINAG. – In the first approach, I see this as a plea to let the countries build something instead of the ASFINAG! This immediately brings me back to the Austrian Bundesbahnen, because there is very strangely saved: The projects are not focused on priority, but they are drawn into the length of the projects. In fact, every BWL student knows that if you move a project into length, there are additional interest rates and additional maintenance costs. That should also be known by business professionals, and I am looking in your direction very much, Mr Bartenstein. I am 100% with our Tyrolean Obmann Gerald Hauser, who has called for the Brenner Base Tunnel to be built, but at least with a timely control by the Court of Auditors and above all with a massive counter-financing from the road and above all with an obligation for the trucks on the train. If all this doesn't happen, Gerald Hauser knows, and then I know exactly what will happen: In 30 years the trucks continue to drive on the road as they do now, and empty trains pass through the hole in the mountain. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The first thing to do is to save what makes this tunnel even intelligent, namely at the overtaking points and in the control technology. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] I'll get you together. This federal government is massively damaging our companies. It damages the location of Austria, it damages the citizens and, as an i-point, imposes even higher taxes on it. And that's only the beginning!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e6200	Mrs. Dr. Moser is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e6222	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen here and at home! The subject is: Investment smart and save responsibly and also drive growth on the other hand. Mrs Minister, you would certainly be able to do so if you took into account a basic condition, and this is quite simply and simply a matter of making a transport policy as people need it, and not the way the construction industry wants it. My previous speaker is right: As long as transport policy does not create the conditions for the goods to get away from the road – and it is your basic task to carry out transport policy! – for so long, investments in rail to facilitate freight transport are simply a large-scale subsidy to the construction industry and a scrapping of people. That's not how it is, Mrs. Minister! Create They are fair conditions so that real relocation is possible so that people really find good public transport! I just mention a very simple example: Why should people continue to drive unelectrified from Vienna to Bratislava in the future? The electrification program over Marchegg and up to Bratislava have pushed you out, which was so to speak put on the parlor track! This project would make sense, however, because why should people not come from capital to capital on the rail faster, and why should not even counterparts get better offers and drive with more time-consuming, more convenient trains with more comfort? Why don't you add something to the amount of funding for the innovative transport provision systems? For this, €7.3 million will continue to be spent on the whole of Austria. However, you take billions of € for projects that are purely construction-oriented if you do not create other transport framework conditions at the same time. And this is my fundamental accusation or my request to you: Convert the truck and freight transport across the board! Make sure that the freight traffic via the burner no longer takes place on the road! After all, tunnel construction makes sense. But this is really a billion investment volume placed in the mountain or in the sand. And we don't carry that! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Only one comparison: On the one hand, the average Austrian/average Austrian must: You come from the housing policy or from the rental law policy! – come to edge with 43 square meters of living space. At the same time, however, you have a motorway extension program where we already have 50 square meters of motorway infrastructure per inhabitants. Please be aware of this misunderstanding! That's totally irrational! We have less living space and more motorway space! [[Abg. Dr. Bartenstein: It can't be compared!]] Nevertheless, you want to invest another billion euros to make this misunderstanding even stronger! We have also heard about the increases in heating costs and partly also at the petrol price. The mobility in the form you offer, namely road-oriented and large-scale project-oriented, is soon no longer manageable, and no longer manageable for the individual, but also no longer manageable for the budget and for the total volume of the Republic. But instead of really turning towards more public transport and more meaningful large investments in infrastructure and motorway construction stop, you continue as before, though with slightly lower amounts and a little further in time, and therefore more expensive! They continue to do the same, instead of recognizing the signs of time, using the favor of the hour, and now really putting in place the savings fund in the form of a reduction in the waste of transport investments and really taking money there, where people need it, for example – in the final analysis – in connection with a sensible settlement of the pendler's fee. Then: It is truly scandalous that people sitting at the supermarket are given zero sizes or cents of pendulums, because the tax regime for the minister is organized. This is the real daily social-democratic daily scandal of your transport policy.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e6288	Next speaker: Mr Grosz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e6310	High house! Director-General Haberzettl von den ÖBB – he is no longer in the hall – is really not the grave of the Austrian Federal Railways. What Haberzettl has done at the head of the ÖBB is bordering on fire burial so that we can get even faster so that we can ruin this company, which Austria should actually serve as an infrastructure. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] 5 billion € in tax money per year to these ÖBB – not to the infrastructure but exclusively to the staff. Austria has as many inhabitants as Switzerland. Switzerland has the same number of mountains, if not more than Austria, and there is also the same sign of tunnel construction and infrastructure construction as in Austria. The difference is only that the Swiss railway is first privatized and second black numbers write, while for your ÖBB, which serves exclusively as a supply instrument for failed social democrats, you have to pay €5 billion a year so that we get your staff reserve in the ÖBB on tax pay costs. [[Abg. Dr. Bartenstein: What?]] And that's where we say: Enough paid, ladies and gentlemen. Mrs Bures, this is a beautiful quote you brought here today. I think you're going to speak again anyway and you might be able to explain it: The mobility of people is the basis of our home country. – A beautiful saying, but what do I mean? Is that what you're talking about? Do you mean mobility where the fuel costs €1.60 per litre and you, together with the Minister of Economic Affairs and the Minister of Finance, collect 50 percent of taxes? Is that your mobility? Is this your mobility if people in our country who have to drink three times a month have to put up to 216 € of their salary to the side so that they can stay mobile? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In Styria, schools are closed. Your government closes district courts. You don't get a shuttle fee if you have to take the children to school in the early morning because the next school is 14 kilometres away from the residence. 1,60 €, of which more than 50 percent for this state. And you – your government, red and black – do not at last refuse to burden the people of our country at the record price of the fuel in the Second Republic and not to charge them any more through several measures. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Since 1999 – and former Minister of Economic Affairs Martin Bartenstein knows it – the Minister of Economic Affairs in Austria has had a right of regulation to cover the maximum price of the fuel. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Prince.]] Since 1999, black business ministers prefer to make the leaders of the fuel companies and support them instead of putting themselves in a position of protection against the population and making use of their right of regulation. We call for this: an economic minister who finally covers the highest price of fuel in Austria. As Josef Bucher said today, we demand the opening of the federal and state gas stations. The federal and state gas stations are getting their fuel at a price, they can also give it to the people in our country – not at just 1,60 € but again at 1,37 €, 1.25 €. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Header]] And this is covered by competition law, because all the complaints against the federal state of Burgenland and the federal state of Carinthia were lost and the country's gas stations there are still open. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] We demand the withdrawal of the mineral oil tax. At the height of a fuel crisis that you have caused with your foreign policy in Iran itself, ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government, it is a command of the hour that the state orders the withdrawal of the mineral oil tax or at least lets itself be distributed by the OMV, which is a state company, a special dividend and thus minimises the mineral oil tax in that country. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Heinzl]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP]] [[BZÖ and FPÖ are welcome.]] 1,60 €, ladies and gentlemen, and in four weeks, to Easter, we will have 1,70 €! Yes, who can afford this mobility in our country, while on the other hand, from the Graz transport companies up to the Austrian Federal Railways, the ticket prices for public transport also rise? This is political segregation and predatory, nationally arranged, on the back of all citizens – whether poor or rich, whether comrade, wife, mother or father, employee or employer – to whom you have been watching for months and years, instead of finally taking action in your own field. That's why we call tomorrow, on 1. ==References====External links== ==References====External links== March off. We call on an Austrian-wide tank boycott as a sign against this waste-casserery, the state-protected and promoted waste-casserery of red and black together with those fuel companies that obviously operate illegal price agreements so that they can slam people in our country once again. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] Your competition authority fails here just as much as your policy. We are on the side of consumers.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e6429	Mrs Bures once again spoke. I would draw attention to the fact that the speaking time should not exceed 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e6457	Madam President. High house! I'm trying to get the volume back to a normal level. [[Congratulation with SPÖ and ÖVP as well as the Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen.]] [[Abg. Grosz: Check that fuel prices come to a normal level!]] Mr Grosz, while you are always showing this excitement here in the House, otherwise I will see you in a different way. I can only tell you that you can't stand far enough in front of the railways here, but at the Koralm Tunnel and at other railway openings, and always hang your head in the camera and be there with all the railway projects, which is a process which unfortunately leads to policy not gaining credibility. [[Congratulation with SPÖ and ÖVP]] I would like to take a few points in these five minutes. Of course, ladies and gentlemen, traffic is more than road and rail. [[Abg. Grosz: Say something at the fuel prices!]] Transport consists of aviation, Austrian shipping, cable cars, which are essential for us as a tourist country. These are only those areas – which is why they are not in the focus today – where we do not make any cost reductions, where we do not make additional changes in the area of aviation and shipping and cable cars. Mr Deimek, you know, of course I am in close contact and I also have discussions on the situation of Austrian airlines. With regard to air charges, it is true that we are not at the forefront in the European area – Germany is ahead of us – but I believe that we should still see if we can make reliefs. The second thing that matters to me is the following: The Austrian Bundesbahnen are a distributed company. Mr Grosz, you have been arrested a little in the past that money is being pushed in there. [[Abg. Grosz: €5 billion a year!]] There is a liberalisation directive in Europe. There are in the Bundesbahnen infrastructure investments, which decides this high house, which is the Austrian transport policy of moving from the road to the rail. [[Abg. Grosz: If only you had remained in the secretariat of Mr Gusenbauer!]] And then there are routes we order. Just as one has to finance the subway in Vienna, just as every city has its bus, every municipality finances public transport, we finance the routes of public transport at the Austrian Federal Railways, and that is good that way. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] And we save – I say again – three times as much on the road compared to the rail, that is, € 2.8 billion, over the next five years. This is not a question of shifts, it is a question of not building everything as a motorway that we can reach good transport solutions for the people of our country by building local routes quickly and cost-effectively than national roads. I am very grateful – even after many discussions with those responsible in the countries – that we can build in such a way that we also organize traffic in a humane and environmentally friendly way. [[Abg. Scheibner: Traffic, not traffic!]] It's not like the trucks are going through the place because they're not on the track. Ladies and gentlemen, we are European champions of the transport of goods by rail. There is no single country in the EU that transports as many goods on the rails as Austria. In the EU average, half of what we transport on the rail in Austria is transported. It's still too little for me! I still want to pay more for the truck toll not only ecologisty – for those who smell more – which we pay with 1. Introduced January, but also that we organize cross-financing for the rails at the Brenner and the Unterinntal. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grosz]] My aim is not only to keep Europe's champions on the rails in transporting the goods, but also to expand them. And to do this, we need more capacity and need a modern train and not one from the 19th century. ==References== [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Grosz: Say something at the fuel prices!]] I take the accusation very seriously when it is said: They're just doing something for the construction industry! – Let me give you an example: Most of the investments we make in new roads go to road safety. I recall the following: In the Tauerntunnel 15 people are burned in a tunnel tube. We have decided on a tunnel safety programme in this House by saying that we want to make the Austrian roads safer. We do not want people to die in traffic tunnels, and therefore we invest in these tunnels. This is not an investment only for the construction industry, but it was about safe roads in our country when we built the second tube of the Tauerntunnel, which was opened last summer and where we no longer have to make permanent block-handlings, or when we built the Bosrucktunnel that we open, or when we actually rebuild in many areas to make the roads safer in Austria and to stop human suffering. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Finally, three comments, because I would like to add the argument: Mrs Moser, concerning the electrification of the Vienna–Bratislava route: On the east railway you can reach Bratislava in 1 hour 10 minutes, 1 hour 15 minutes, and this is an electrified route. On the Marchegger Ast, the second route between Vienna and Bratislava, is currently working on electrification, so the argument is wrong. Secondly, There are no connections between Salzburg and Linz – daily between Salzburg and Linz! – 100 quick trains connecting these two cities. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Graz!]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: Between Salzburg and Graz! No one can listen to that anymore!]] Thirdly, Mrs Hakl, I am quite with you: Yes, we have to do everything we can to make access to the railway accessible. That is why 100 central railway stations in Austria are being expanded – not only for people with disabilities, but, as you say, for families traveling with small children. That is why we invest a lot in this area too. But what can't be – that's what I just wanted to tell you – is that if you drove the rail jet, you'll be on the 23rd. Holdon assigned. The rail jet only runs with seven wagons and therefore this will not have been possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e6654	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. [[10:32:41]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e6675	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e6978	Mr Bucher, ladies and gentlemen, before entering the agenda, asked for the Mr Bucher, fellow Members and colleagues on ‘Feed-for-genuity – stopped unfavorable offspockets at the tippings of the gas stations’. Under the Rules of Procedure, the request for urgent procedure will be discussed at 3 p.m. Time-limitation request
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e7005	Before entering the agenda, I shall also inform you that the Members of Parliament have requested that the Constitutional Committee report on the motion for a resolution 1826/A(E) by Mr Bucher, fellow Members on the reform of the Party's law to prevent corruption and abuse of power be limited to 3. ==References== There is no need for a short debate. The motion for a resolution will therefore be put to the vote in accordance with the Rules of Procedure after the end of the negotiations at this meeting. Request for a brief debate on the response to the question 9937/AB
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e7026	Before entering the agenda, I shall also inform you that the request made pursuant to § 92 of the Rules of Procedure is to hold a brief debate on the reply to Question 10105/J by Dr Fichtenbauer, colleagues on private celebrations in schools by the Federal Minister for Education, Arts and Culture. Since this meeting called for a urgent request to be dealt with, the brief debate will take place following this one. Apart from the 24-hour lead-out period
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e7047	In order to be able to negotiate item 20 of the agenda, it is in accordance with § 44 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure required to waive the 24-hour deadline for the setting up of the Committee's report. Point 20 is the report of the Committee on Immunities on the request from the Vienna Public Prosecutor's Office for approval of the official persecution of the Deputy to the National Council of Mag. Dr. Wolfgang Zinggl, 1674 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their agreement to the removal from the time-limit for this committee report, to give a corresponding sign. – This is unanimously accepted. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e7078	The debate on points 2 and 3, 5 to 7, 8 and 9, 14 and 15 and 16 and 17 of the agenda is proposed. On the other hand, is there an objection? - That's not the case. We are now going into the agenda. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e7104	A consensus was reached between the members of the presidential conference on the duration of the debates. Accordingly, a day block time of 8 ‘Vienna hours’ has been agreed, so that the following speaking times arise: SPÖ and ÖVP per 112 minutes, FPÖ 100, Green 88 and BZÖ 84 minutes. Furthermore, according to § 57 para. 7 to limit the speaking time of each Member without club membership to 10 minutes per debate. We shall now proceed to the vote on the speaking time just presented. If you agree to this proposal, please give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously accepted. [[10:36:21]] 1. Point Report by the Constitutional Committee on Amendment No 1780/A by Mr Mag. Wolfgang Gerstl, Mag. Christine Muttonen, colleagues and colleagues concerning a federal law amending the Federal Constitutional Law, passed a federal law on the implementation of European Citizens' Initiatives Act (EBIG) and the Introductory Act on Administrative Procedures 2008 (Federal Ministry Act 1986), the Criminal Code, the National Council Elections Act 1992, the Federal Presidential Election Act 1971, the European Election Act 1973, the Volksbesammengesetz 1972, the Volksammungsgesetz 1989, the Electoral Evidence Act 1973 and the European Election Act (EBIG-Introduction Act) (1666 d.B.)
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e7153	We're now on the 1st. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. The first is Mr Scheibner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e7181	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! For many years, we and many EU citizens have rightly agreed that there should be instruments of direct democracy in the European Union, because for many years, the national states – including Austria – have been giving massive competences, including legislative competences, to the European Union, but without having the rights of participation of the population, which, of course, are enshrined in most European democracies, including in Austria. A lot has been discussed: Whether there should be referendums across the EU, that is, not only in the national states, when it comes to transferring EU law into national law, or, for example, in the event of accession or a change in the Treaty, or to reject them, but also in the case of important European initiatives, to create Europe-wide referendums, in order to enable the people, as in most national states, to participate directly in the legislation and also to vote on important areas, such as changes to the Treaties. Much has been discussed, but nothing has been implemented to date – not even that it is possible for EU citizens to present a legislative initiative to the European Parliament, just as it is possible here in Austria, namely that a legislative initiative on which we have to discuss and then vote on a popular desire to the National Council. This is also not possible at European Union level. Now – and this has been celebrated as one of the great achievements of the Lisbon Treaty – we are creating a possibility of direct democracy, namely the European Citizens' Initiative. [[Abg. Strache: It is weak, it is not binding!]] I see noding with the Greens, they were already almost euphoric; euphoric is perhaps too much said, but they have agreed in committee. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: What?]] The liberals have still voted against the committee; as I hear it, they will now vote in favour. I don't think that's the right way. I am very much in favour of the instruments of direct democracy. I was also not against the Lisbon Treaty, like some others here in the House, but, ladies and gentlemen, in a modern democracy, 20 years, 25 years after we introduced citizen initiatives here in Austria, petitions have been introduced, such a weak instrument to celebrate a placebo of direct democracy, I do not understand. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr Pirklhuber]] [[In the case of the BZÖ, as well as the members of the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, you can only reject this because it is really a placebo! It is a placebo at EU level, because one does not want the participation of the population there. It is only then, if a national referendum goes somewhere else, that the European Union is made up of citizens, people, not just technocrats and bureaucrats, and perhaps a few hundred politicians who sit in Brussels and, in fact, don't know who they are and who they are for. That's the problem! I am very much in favour of Europe, I am also in favour of the European Union, but it needs to become more citizens. It can't be that such instruments, through such eyeswiping, try to wipe away a discussion that is important and that we have been conducting for many, many years. This cannot be the means to make this Union – and that would be necessary – closer to citizens. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Ladies and gentlemen, what is this European citizens' initiative like? – 1 million signatures in at least seven Member States are necessary. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: That's not much!]] The colleague of the Greens says: That's not much! – Well, it may be, but organize it once! [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: In Europe!]] This should be a citizen's initiative. But thank you for the hölzl, because: What's going to be? – Once again, parties and large institutions, perhaps large trade unions, will be able to use this instrument for their own purposes, and the public's interest in participating in EU legislation will be ignored once again. That's not possible either. – An interesting example: Mr. Federal Chancellor Faymann has announced that he will be – as Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany; also interesting, because he is actually in the Council and could really be involved in taking positive initiatives – through a European Citizens' Initiative, he will support and drive the European Union's nuclear exodus. Interesting! In Brussels one does not vote against if the atomic lobbyists take one measure after another, but now one wants to use this plant of direct democracy, better said, one wanted – conjunctively – because one has come up with that that is not at all possible. It is not at all possible to make such fundamental demands as to amend the EU Treaties as an instrument of direct democracy. It is not a matter of giving the European Parliament any suggestions to the Commission, suggestions with all possible exceptions – that is really important things must not be stimulated – and the Commission then has three months to decide whether or not it will implement this or not and, if not, why not. Ladies and gentlemen, we have also set up as a petition here as a citizens' initiative, as citizens' desires. However, this is at least a matter for Parliament, and there are no formal criteria. A petition can sign anyone, you need names, signature, address. No matter how many signatures she receives, if ten, or a thousand signatures, she is introduced here in Parliament and treated in the Committee on Petitions. This is not possible in the European Citizens' Initiative. A very complicated procedure should be followed for this few skills. In Austria, Austrian citizens who do not have a passport because they say they do not need one, and no identity card – that is not mandatory – cannot participate in it because – and that is the second point; first of all, it is a weak instrument from the European Union – additional, non-necessary barriers are being installed in Austria. The concrete implementation is national. For example, Germany shows that it can also be very unbureaucratic, only with sample-like controls, but in Austria this is regulated more strongly than the right to vote, including citizens' initiatives, referendums, the introduction of popular desires. In order to participate, only an official photo ID card is required as an ID card, and the European Citizens' Initiative requires a passport or identity card because you have to enter the number. Are there no registration registers in Austria? [[Abg. Dr. Wittmann: Because you can collect it electronically! That's the difference!]] – Because you can collect it electronically, my colleague! Yes, where are we today in the 21st century? Century that someone who wants to make use of a democratic right must pay €80 or €100 because he has to solve a passport in order to be able to enter the passport number?- Oh, my God! In Germany, all of this is not necessary. We are building up obstacles that are simply not justified, and this is still supported accordingly. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Ladies and gentlemen, 1 million € will cost such a citizens' initiative to the people concerned. There are no proper computer programs for it, which must also be organized by the individual, but what is available is advertising. Of course! Ads, funded by EU funds, are already being informed of this citizens' initiative, which the citizen cannot organise and perceive at all, and are still being misinformed because of the fact that there is no law-enforcement law. Again, ladies and gentlemen: I am very much in favour of expanding the instruments of direct democracy. This is also necessary in order to strengthen the commitment of citizens of Europe to this Europe and to the European Union. But what is being done here is a typical work of bureaucrats who do not want to do exactly that: that the people can share in the setting of standards in the European Union! I find that the addition of additional obstacles in Austria is particularly embarrassing. That is why we will reject this initiative.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e7312	Mrs Mag. Muttons now speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e7336	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In contrast to my previous speaker, I see the European Citizens' Initiative, which took place on 1st January. April is to enter into force, in fact, as a great and worldwide unique opportunity. Millions of citizens from soon 28 countries will have the opportunity to bring political issues to the European agenda together through cross-border direct democratic participation. I think, ladies and gentlemen, that is something we can be proud of in Europe. The citizens' initiative on which the Member States have agreed in the Treaty of Lisbon is not yet perfect. It is unfortunate, for example, that it has not yet succeeded in finding uniform, EU-wide rules for implementation. This is no reason, however, to disapprove of this citizens' initiative or even reject it. As it now exists, the citizens' initiative is an important start, a step towards closer proximity to the citizen and democracy – what we have always called for – and I am sure that it will develop in the long term and win an appropriate place towards the Council, the Commission and also the European Parliament. At least when the rules are harmonised, I hope that improvements will be recognised in three years at the latest by the first evaluation. However, successful development of the European Citizens' Initiative also depends decisively on how the rules are implemented in the national states in which individual countries are implemented. If we want the citizens' initiative to be recognised as a serious and equal EU institution and to be able to establish itself, we must not treat it as if it were a simple signature campaign or an x-random opinion poll. One has to rule out manipulation very specifically, because nothing harms the citizens' initiative more than doubts about their authenticity. I therefore think that we are currently making the right decision in Austria if we ensure the authenticity of the vote by the note of the passport number or the number of the identity card. We are well aware of the disadvantages, so we will examine whether, for example, the list of identification papers cannot be extended in the future due to changed technical possibilities. It was important for us to establish a balance between the safety and simplicity of the procedure, in the interests of strengthening the European citizens' initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e7372	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Widmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e7393	Madam President. High house! Colleague Muttonen, imagine that there would be the instrument, screwed down on Austrian conditions: The form of the insert is changed, only more by means of a pass and a pass number is possible. Let us compare the situation at European level with the EBIG, the European Citizens' Initiative Act, with what Austria has! . 25 years ago, we had much better instruments than the EBIG now at European level. [[BZÖ and FPÖ are welcome.]] I also try to differentiate, because the requirements for the citizens' initiative at European level are quite disputable in themselves – I do not want to say they are good, but they are not bad either – but the implementation, on the part of the In fact, government members are like a democracy boycott in the 21st century. ==References== What happened? – The registration of the pass number, for example, means you have to go to the local office to prove yourself. We had all of that before! I remember the popular desire of Jörg Haider, “Austria first”. [[BZÖ and FPÖ are welcome.]] What was there for the citizens, if they wanted a building permit from the mayor a few days later? The citizens were ill-treated, they were treated disadvantagedly. That's what's happening again. Or think of the popular survey in Upper Austria to the Linz Opera! There were also errors: The mayors, the ruling parties, did not support direct democracy, but, quite the contrary, boycotted so that their interests did not fall short. [[BZÖ and FPÖ are welcome.]] Remember, too, how much direct democracy we really have in Austria! In Upper Austria, 8 percent of citizens need to be able to initiate a citizen survey. That's 80,000 signatures. This only creates a large party or a large group of ads – and not even those that make it. That is to say, in Austria too, we need a great deal of action to strengthen democracy more massively. That is why I think the value of this ECI is really a small one. It is only a matter of encouraging the European Commission to be heard in the European Parliament. It is not a procedure for a law or for a directive or anything else, but quite the contrary. Therefore, I believe that it would be sufficient for you to be able to collect sign lists on the road as in Germany, which will then be checked in a random manner. However, a central electoral evidence register would be needed. We don't have that either. In other words, we must see that access to justice, democracy is being made easier for citizens. We must create the conditions for this by means of a central electorate and by sampling. All of this has not been implemented in this law, quite the contrary! That is why I believe that today is a bad day for direct democracy. There are many proposals here in the House, but also outside Parliament, on which levels we should develop democracy. This begins with the municipality, continues at the national level to the federal government. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Josef Auer.]] The last great achievement was achieved in the Committee on Petitions – thanks to Uschi Haubner and all the other groups here in the house – that we can finally support petitions electronically, Mr Auer. But she still has to bring in a national council. It was a small step, but you can support it electronically. And of the value, ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ and ÖVP, a petition in itself is nothing but a European citizens' initiative, of its content. That is why I do not understand how to build up such obstacles: 14 250 signatures, in seven countries 1 million, around 1 million costs for submission, in order to be able to realize this at all; electronic support yes, I have heard, you can make, but you have to certify. You know what that means, too. This cannot be achieved by a normal citizens' initiative. That is why this day is a bad day. There are still a number of other issues discussed today, such as the Security Police Act, with which we are expanding the brilliance, or this comic agreement with the United States, with which we are again putting 8 million Austrians – I say – under general suspicion, and which also serves this bill to weaken direct democracy and civil rights in Austria once again. That is why we say: Good night, Austria, by these laws!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e7481	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Gerstl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e7502	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! The colleagues of the BZÖ clearly measure by two measures. When the ÖVP in Graz surveyed an online system and a survey on the collection of signatures directly on the street, it was the BZÖ that said: That can't be! The BZÖ has called for what it criticises here. [[Inter-calls at the BZÖ.]] – It was Mr Grosz. At the time, the BZÖ demanded that one go back to the Magistrian District Office. – Ladies and gentlemen, here you measure with two measurements! [[Abg. Head: That's it!]] Support the European Citizens' Initiative, which would be a way to direct democracy! On this point you are not credible, ladies and gentlemen of the BZÖ! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I believe that also to the ladies and gentlemen at home in front of the screens, with this European Citizens' Initiative Act, we can also show a special example of parliamentaryism. We introduced this law by means of an initiative proposal last autumn. We have also carried out a hearing here in the house on this law, we have discussed it most intensively. [[Abg. Scheibner: The catastrophe was, you know!]] We have discussed this very intensively with the Greens. You have not been particularly involved in the BZÖ, you have only made a few notifications in the Committee. [[Abg. Scheibner: All experts have broken the law! Don't be so superlative!]] After that, we also discussed intensively a motion for a resolution aimed at resolving the weaknesses in this area. In comparison, I would particularly like to address the Freedom Party, because it is at least congruent in contrast to you from the BZÖ. It has called for direct democracy and today also agrees with this proposal because it is more in favour of direct democracy. This is what the Committee has perhaps made up of: we are now creating a four-party solution to bring Europe closer to European citizens and Austrians. [[Abg. Scheibner: But only those with passport!]] More citizens' proximity to Europe, more direct democracy in Europe – that is celebrated and not criticized, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This means strengthening participation and enabling Austria to do so by a small number of signatures – you have said 1 million; I have to make this clear to the listeners, because in Austria there is a need for 14 250 votes; that would certainly be too little for you in every single popular desire if they achieved only 14 250 – to participate in an initiative to the European Commission, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Scheibner: But you don't do anything with it! Have you read what they do with it? Nothing!]] They criticise the fact that ladies and gentlemen must prove themselves in a citizens' initiative in order not to cause any harm in order to avoid abuse. I do not understand this attitude because, on the other hand, you would agree that data can be downloaded from the Internet, that you can copy the data and then simply bring it in as a European Citizens' Initiative. – No, ladies and gentlemen of the BZÖ, that is not our attitude! SPÖ and ÖVP are absolutely in agreement here. Without any clarity about the fact that the citizen who has submitted the application and the signature is the one who is actually it is not being forwarded. We're in favour of not operating any dizziness here. We support the fact that individual groups, parties and citizens' initiatives cannot collide and stop together, but we support the fact that every individual who comes in knows very well that his data will also be handled with care. Ladies and gentlemen, I am not going to say – and that has also been said by Mrs Muttonen – that this is a first step. It's a first step, it's not the miracle yet. That is why we have also drawn up a joint resolution with which we are working together to establish a central online system in Europe, with the same rights and obligations for all citizens of the Union. That's what we want out on. I am also right in saying that the next thing is that we will not only create a legislative initiative on the Commission, but, of course, our aim is to try to ensure that a European citizens' initiative also comes to the European Parliament. These are the next steps we will deal with. This is the development of direct democracy in Europe. That's what we stand for, and I think it's good. It would be very nice if we could reach a five-party agreement.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e7610	Mr Grosz referred to an actual correction. Mr deputies, you know the Rules of Procedure. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e7634	My previous speaker from the People's Party has just said that I have spoken against direct democratic means – in the example of the Graz People's Party survey on the Internet. I'm correcting: I even personally participated in this survey, as a sign also for direct democracy.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e7667	Mr Klubobmann is speaking next time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e7701	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In principle, we must insist that the European Union is not only in a financial and monetary crisis, but also in a serious democratic crisis – but also in Austria we must hold this crisis for ourselves. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If we debate the law on European citizens' initiatives today and make a decision, we must, of course, also be honest with them. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. And if you are honest with this, then you have to say that this is a delicate plant of a direct democratic institution that may become possible in the future, but the delicate plant – which has already been properly addressed and analyzed by previous speakers – is, of course, a placebo until now, because there is no legal obligation to do so. [[President Neugebauer shall take over the chairmanship.]] What happens to popular desires we experience in Austria. Although we have been far more than the European Union is today 25 years ago, we need a reform here in Austria. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr Pirklhuber]] Let us start here, and at last do what we propose to liberals, namely to bind direct democracy into the Constitution. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. May. Widmann.]] We must go there, and it is, of course, so that with this European Citizens' Initiative we do not really get a real strengthening or a real opportunity for direct democracy. There's something to point out: There, the SPÖ/ÖVP Council of Ministers is quietly and quietly signing the ACTA agreement – silently and quietly – which, fortunately, has now been suspended – which ultimately meant to cut citizens' rights in the future and has tried to control everything that is happening on the Internet. Incredible anti-democratic developments! In the context of the European Stability Mechanism, the ESM-Diktat, there will be a silent and silent preparation of further decommissioning of democracy, where democracy will be abolished and in the future it will be possible for the Board of Governors of the European Stability Mechanism without a European Parliament, without a decision here in the Austrian Parliament, to make decisions that, without democratic legitimacy, it will be able to raise the rescue shield to up to €2,000 billion and thus increase our Austrian liability from today to over €21 billion. Yes, where do we live?, I wonder when I see what you want to support and advance in the background of anti-democratic developments. [[In the case of the FPÖ, as well as the BZÖ Members.]] Therefore, there needs to be a defensive democracy in this House – from the people – but at last also the instruments for you to be controlled and there is a regulatory for your political misconceptions. In fact, this European Citizens' Initiative should be an EU-wide tool for direct democracy. This is not, unfortunately, it is not, but it will ultimately make it possible for citizens to take part, with a total of over one million support signatures to be collected in seven EU countries. It's true, in Austria only 14 700 are needed, as far as I'm in my head now, but still I wonder: Why does not the one million support signatures count only in Austria, so that it is finally discussed in the European Union? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber.]] The million must be worth the same value everywhere – there must not be again prevention mechanisms to be installed! Of course, it is also true – if you take the passport control and the identity ID control – that you have actually thought about instruments in a citizens' initiative, how you can create a giant tamam, although there will anyway be no legal consistent effect. That's exactly the incomprehensible! [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. May. Widmann.]] If there were at least legally binding laws, such as the fact that the European Parliament has to deal with it if more than one million Europeans sign that the applicant has the opportunity to participate in the euro. If binding implementation or a mechanism of binding implementation were to be laid down by law, then it would really be direct democracy. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr Pirklhuber]] But we have come out of a toothless construction of European technocrats, far from democracy, and we have been experiencing this for some time now: a European Union move that is running away at the moment, but is not ready to take the citizens away. And that's exactly what we criticize. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In the end, we also see this at criticism points in Austria: How to deal with popular desires that have received nearly 500 000 declarations of support, such as the educational population's desire? What's going to happen? We have seen it with the many popular desires that we already had in Austria, and there the Austrians feel planted: It is a sign that it will then be discussed in Parliament, perhaps transferred to a committee, and at the end of the day nothing will happen. – That must be done! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We want to finally implement direct democracy here in Austria, here in the Austrian Constitution: If more than 250 000 Austrians support a popular desire for a change of law or for the introduction of legislation – including for EU issues, including constitutional laws – then a binding referendum will have to take place! The result of a binding referendum, with more than 30 percent of the electorate participating, is then to be implemented here in the House. This means participation of the citizens – and not constantly driving over the citizens! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That is what we want to enforce, for which we stand, and for which I also agree because it will become necessary. It needs real direct democracy. Let us start here, and let us here, starting from Austria, put pressure on the European Union. The example of Switzerland is a good example, and there are basically no arguments – except you don't want control. And that you don't want control, we know. You want to reduce the control mechanisms here, at the Court of Auditors reduce officials – wherever you are checked, you are afraid. That is why, of course, you do not want control by the people, who may in the future have the opportunity to regulate you, to oppose you with direct democratic mechanisms and to correct wrong decisions. But that will be necessary. Today, when we talk about political starryness: Yes, there are, but it is primarily a political stare, because people are satisfied with the political minds that stand up permanently, promise things and then do not respect them and make them a permanent policy against the interests of their own people. That's the cause of obscurity! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We want to counteract this obscurity through concrete actions and have repeatedly submitted applications here – for the introduction of direct democracy. We will continue to do this because people can see: We are free to rely on these issues of direct democratic co-determination, for which we stand and for which we can also be strengthened in the future, because it will be necessary for us to enforce them in the country. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Of course, there are many, many other areas that we can also improve. Of course, we also want to make the popular survey finally a parliamentary minority right. If a third of the Members here in the House support a request for a People's Survey, then there should be it – and Not prevention mechanisms, as we have some of them today, into national laws. 80,000 declarations of support per country, you have to reach this first! We did that once, that was at the World Exhibition in Vienna, which we were able to prevent. But what that meant: This was almost impossible – you have to be honest – despite all the structural and organisational possibilities that we used at the time; it was almost a happiness that we could achieve and force it. That is why we must, of course, make changes here and think about how the people can finally be integrated more strongly and truly legally. For us, this is the democratic mission that we are fulfilling, which we are also living, but which you fear from the government, obviously, as the devil fears the water of consecration. For good reason, fear him like the devil, because you know: If you were to question the people on the crucial issues where you are not going to do anything or where you are making decisions to the detriment of the population, then there would be clear decisions – but you do not want to do that because then you can no longer serve your networks, which you are partly talking about. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. May. Widmann.]] But I say: For us there is only one network, which counts: This is the Austrian population, these are the interests of the Austrian population and these are the majority views of its own population. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl.]] This is democracy, and everything else is really a mechanism to prevent democracy. I understand that you're excited at the back of the ÖVP and I understand it because you're scared. We are not afraid of the people, and the right to go out of the people again! That is also what is enshrined in our Constitution, but which you are constantly stepping with your feet. But you do not want to do that, and that is why there will also be a hard discussion between us on these issues. [[In the case of the FPÖ, as well as the BZÖ Members.]] Yeah, that's what I'm saying. The legal institution of the People's Survey is also an appropriate instrument to ultimately overcome the reformal rigidity of this coalition. Yes, we want to use that and we have to use it, and you constantly forget that – and sometimes the greens, I have to say that already, because you are the direct democracy only a concern if it fits you ideologically. This is not the case with us. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber.]] I say: In principle, the people must have the opportunity to exercise the right of initiative in a legally binding way. Whether it fits me ideologically or not, that is not questionable, but it must be possible for every powerful citizen to say that there are misdevelopments, against which I act, and I force a binding referendum, at which result we all have to keep whether it suits us or not. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr Pirklhuber]] This is the common element, where we can find everyone – I say quite consciously – if you really mean it. Until now, only many here in this House do not really mean it seriously, and I therefore ask you to finally get seriously into this debate.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e7955	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Musiol. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e7978	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Today we decide on the first direct democratic instrument at European level. You previously submitted to me Euphoria, Mr Scheibner – you then took it back again – to Euphoria in the Constitutional Committee. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Disc]] I'm euphoric in other matters, not in this case, but I'm looking forward to it. I am delighted because it has succeeded – and above all: with the help of the Greens at European and also at national level – to bring this European citizen initiative to this stage in which it is now. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Disc]] I'd like to pick up the picture of the tender plant: Yes, we also see this as a delicate plant, we would have wanted more. [[Mr Scheibner and Mr Mag. Widmann.]] We would have wished for a commitment that we would have wished for referendums at European level and much more. But: We greens have a different way of dealing with tender plants, as you know, we do not climb on it, but we see that these delicate plants continue to grow. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] And that's what we've done in the last few weeks: We went into serious negotiations – contrary to the other two opposition parties, we did not go to the frontal opposition – and have addressed exactly the points that you have also raised today, which we have criticised on the hardest. [[Mr Scheibner and Mr Mag. Widmann.]] Point 1: proof of identity. One can discuss for a long time whether or not an identity is required at all. However, what we have very much criticized is that passports and identity cards are certainly too few as passports, which are exclusively valid here. There are a lot of people who have neither one nor the other ID. [[Interlocutory calls from Deputies Mag. Widmann and Scheibner.]] I've currently asked the Minister of the Interior, and we'll see how many people there are. We have achieved in long negotiations that, at least now, the Ministry of the Interior is called upon to examine the extension to other ID papers and, on the other hand, to approach the Commission and negotiate with regard to this obstacle. You know very well that Austria could not have acted differently now, because this is contained in the regulation, as it does in Germany. [[Mr Scheibner and Mr Mag. Widmann]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It is precisely different in every country, and we cannot simply make a regulation different from that contained in the regulation. But what we can do – and here we are pragmatic and say we are going this way – is that the government is negotiating and, as part of the evaluation, we are also looking at the importance of this obstacle to the implementation of European citizens' initiatives. [[Abg. Scheibner: Yes, but we already had the German regulation...!]] The second point we picked up was the online collection system. Yes, it is a great financial burden for the initiatives to establish an online collection system, to have it certified, to bear the costs and then to assume the corresponding liability. We have worked to ensure that the Ministry establishes an online collection system that can be used by all initiatives. We did not get through with this, but we have managed to start discussions at European level to ensure that all are provided with a collection system at European level. We have also changed the deadlines. Originally, the application concluded that the time limits provided for in the Regulation for twelve months had been reduced to eleven months. We have addressed this, and we have changed that – and much more. I am now saving you the additions, which you can also read in the motion for a resolution and in the amendment and in amendments. But to act as if there had not been a lot done here, and to pretend that there would not be any awareness here that the proof of identity is a problem, that the cost of the online collection system is a problem, which is unfortunately real refusal of reality. [[Abg. Scheibner: Yes, you could have succeeded! Would you have said no!]] And it is also so, Mr Widmann, when you refer to the current national people's desire to compare the fact that we already have to distinguish: The European Citizens' Initiative is a “private” collection – under quotation marks – through initiatives on the streets or online. The popular desire we now have here in Austria is still an official collection, that is, one has to go to a magistrate, to the congregation and show a card there. It is not true that you do not have to show a card in Austria, not the passport, that I give you absolutely right; we have also taken this in and changed it here. [[Interlocutory calls from Deputies Mag. Widmann and Scheibner]] I am also perfectly right to say that there is a need to change a lot in the Austrian system, and I am also in relation to your demands regarding direct democracy. I don't know where they're taking it, that we're for direct democracy only when it suits us. [[Abg. Strache: rejects our requests! You have rejected our requests!]] Mr. Strache, if you were to appear in the Constitutional Committee, you would know that your requests for direct democracy have not yet been negotiated there. [[Abg. Street: Here in the house!]] – There were not yet any who came to the vote. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Bitch.]] – There were not yet any; there are applications that are in the Constitutional Committee, which must be done in April. I must tell you one thing, if you always call here for direct democracy to be set up and for the people to be involved. I'm just giving you that right, and we're not so far apart either. But your attitude to it and your real motivation behind it are also very easy to recognize. If in Ashondi Wednesday speeches and also in other public statements you always only confuse direct democracy with the fact that, if you're supposed to be in the government sometime, you're going to question the people or perform popular elections about exactly the points you don't fit, but you don't know what the Austrians are doing at all, then that's not my understanding of direct democracy. [[Abg. Ing. Hofer: That's what we'll see!]] [[Abg. Strache: The people decide!]] My understanding of direct democracy is that the citizens, not only the Austrians, but all who are affected by the regulations; that is, at the district level, the people living in the district, regardless of citizenship, at the community level, the people who live there, can take initiatives and vote with sufficient support. [[Interlocutory calls from Deputies Ing. Hofer and Strache]] This means direct democracy from below and not direct democracy from above. [[call to the FPÖ.]] I do not understand this under direct democracy, and there we are very, very clearly different. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Strache: That was special and absurd now, what you have done for the best!]] A point of content that we have raised in the discussions with ÖVP and SPÖ concerns the certification body. That sounds complicated now. There is a place in Austria that can certify the online collection systems. It's a monopoly. There is only one body which is authorised by regulation to do so, the so-called A-SIT. We know them from e-voting, we know them from discussions related to e-government. From our point of view, this is not an institution that should act in a monopolistic manner. The certification of direct-democratic online collection systems is not a matter to be carried out by private non-profit associations – and the A-SIT is an association. In Germany this is otherwise regulated – because Germany has already been brought as an example – there is a Federal Office for Safety in Information Technology. We also present a corresponding Federal Office, and therefore I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I believe that we all do well to involve the initiatives in discussions on direct democracy at national level, which we must have at the latest in April, as we have done in the European Citizens' Initiative: Hearings, talking with the initiatives to really find a solution that suits everyone. We will continue to pour this plant and not let it be trampled. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e8204	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e8289	Now Mrs. Federal Minister Mag. Mikl's head of business. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e8310	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, High house! Appreciate Seers and Advisors! I believe that with today's day, with the European Citizens' Initiative Act, we are setting an important and right milestone towards more democracy at European level and are ultimately also making us a pioneer in supporting more democracy at European level. Why is that important to us? – Because we believe that organisers in particular must have the right to consult the European Parliament. In particular, this also gives us the opportunity to strengthen confidence in the European Union, and above all we have the opportunity to regain the confidence of the population in politics in general. What is very beautiful is that e-participation is becoming reality with this European citizens' initiative in particular. In other words, this e-participation will allow all citizens to support initiatives electronically. Of course, we from Austria have dealt intensively with this issue and have here also fully contributed to the creation of the EU regulation, here have brought all our competence, all our knowledge from our experience in recent years and decades, because it is important to us that it is possible to achieve optimal execution, in the very sense of a rule of law. But – it has been discussed a lot today – we are of course also realistic enough that we know that in the future, of course, there will also need to be changes here, that we have no doubt to turn on one screw or another. That is why I am glad that there will also be a comprehensive evaluation in a few years. I also do not want to thank all those who have contributed in advance, my responsibilities at the Ministry of Interior, the Head of the Department of Ministerial Council Robert Stein, of course also the experts of the Ministry of Justice, the Federal Chancellery and, of course, the Federal Ministry of European and International Affairs. Back very short to the e-participation: What was and is very important to us in this regard? Legal protection and legal certainty, especially the entire area of data security and data protection, in order to prevent data abuse. That is why I would not like to stress here once again that it is important for us to carry out, in particular, checks on all forms of support, that passport or identity card be presented here, because this is ultimately also an important safety feature, because we are also doing so in the form of mani- and because it also enables us to prevent multiple support. This is very important to us in the sense of a rule of law. But you may also have noticed that it was very important for us to focus on legal protection and legal certainty. Therefore, a subsequent examination by the Constitutional Court is also possible. There are certainly more stringent provisions here than in some other European countries. I am firmly convinced that, despite a comprehensive discussion in which there is no 100% agreement, we have created a good basis for citizens' initiatives at European level. All preparatory work on a practical implementation is under way in the Ministry of the Interior. I can only agree with what Mrs Colleague said: Let us pour this plant to strengthen and strengthen direct democracy at European level in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e8366	Next speaker: Mr Wittmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e8387	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Without a doubt, I believe it is a step in the right direction, which is recognised by all the parties here, with different weightings of the problems and concerns to be represented here. But we must begin to deal with the European Union in such a way that we support small initiatives here and do not reject everything from the outset. If I have heard here as a criticism that a million people alone in Austria would have to be enough and not in seven countries: Mr. Klubobmann Strache! Awareness How easy it would be for countries like Germany with 90 million inhabitants to vote 1 million, and how difficult it is for Austria with 8 million inhabitants to vote 1 million! That would be a shift of power to the great states. As an Austrian, we do not want to do that, but we are those who advocate that the small states also have a right here. Therefore, seven states that have to join in are the minimum requirement for a pan-European citizens' initiative and not a single large state, so to speak, to be taken hostage by the small states. We, as Social Democrats, would reject this because I believe that the European Union will only take a comprehensive development if we take the small states as equal states and do not begin to dominate the large states. I think this argument is wrong that you brought here! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In principle, the legal basis is based on the Treaty of Lisbon. This Treaty of Lisbon has, at European level, become a directive which is directly applicable to European law and needs to be implemented here. How have we tried to implement this domestically, the administrative implementation of such a citizens' initiative? – We have in the Constitution in Article 10 para. 1 Z 1a the basis of competence for the scheme in order to have at all the constitutional basis for such a scheme. In Article 26a of the Federal Constitutional Act, we have extended the authority of the electoral authority to take part in the implementation of a European Citizens' Initiative, and in Article 141 B-VG we have provided the opportunity to challenge a result, so that legal protection is guaranteed. In contrast to Mr Scheibner, I think it is quite appropriate to use the passport or ID as an identification feature because it must be possible to sort out double signatures because it must be possible to prevent someone from writing the phone book and many people from knowing that their name is being misused to support an initiative that they may not want to support. [[Abg. Scheibner: But it's probably with a driver's license, isn't it? – Official photo identification!]] In order to prevent this, I consider the passport or identity card to be correct, but I agree that if we bring other systems, other ID cards to such an extent that they are verifiable, you must naturally think about making this possible. But the electronic collection of support terms is certainly a progress towards the requirement to go into office in order to provide an ID card. I think that's the right middle path. Of course, we must be open to further discussions. It is the first step in this direction at European level and therefore it is necessary to support such a step towards democratising the European level.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e8433	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Lopatka. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e8454	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! I'm actually surprised that we're not coming to a five-party union today. I regret that. [[Abg. Scheibner: Would you have presented something good!]] It is right that the European Union is constantly being criticized for having a deficit in terms of proximity to citizens and participation in citizens. And once there is an approach – there I am quite at the Klubobmann Stache – a delicate plant, a beginning, then this is not supported by the BZÖ again. You can now say you have to collect too many signatures. It is also too complicated to say, as it has been criticised from the green side. So we can criticize a lot, but at the end of the day, with all the considerations, it must be concluded that it is a step in the right direction, which is absolutely worthy of support from Parliament and from us. That is why I do not understand the BZÖ that it is taking this vote. Starting from the community level to the European level, we have two pillars in our political system. One is, of course, representative democracy, but it needs supplements through direct democratic possibilities. Coming from the Styria I can tell you that starts with us already at the local parts. In each municipality, local citizens with few signatures can reach that even in a part of citizens' surveys, citizens' initiatives are possible. This was, of course, also possible at the national and federal level, but also at European level. The fact that this possibility is now being given for the first time is to be seen as positive, and therefore there is no understanding, as I have said, of the BZÖ's attitude. I assume that this opportunity is being taken very quickly by citizens, and there are several issues that deserve to support such a citizens' initiative at European level too. I think it is a step forward that this online collection system is possible here. On the other hand, this has already been addressed by SPÖ Wittmann's Constitutional Sp Ö Wittmann, of course, it is necessary to stop abuse from the outset, especially if you first grant this opportunity in the Internet area. Thus, given a balanced presentation, a start, where there will certainly be a further development, but it is a pity that this start is not supported by all five parties represented in Parliament.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e8491	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Stefan. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e8512	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! So if this is really a milestone – we have already heard it, we are always full of milestones here in the House – then this shows what peculiar access the government parties seem to have to direct democracy. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This is exactly the point where we are starting and what we are criticizing here. If you recognize what is established here at European level with this European Citizens' Initiative as a real direct democratic means, if you think that civil participation is taking place in this way, we also know why our initiatives here in the High House of Red and Black are so massively rejected: because you simply have no understanding of what it means to involve the citizens and the people in decision-making. And that's exactly the point where we always fail here. Mrs Muttonen said: a big step. I don't know, are you really so blue-eyeed that you actually see it like that? You have to look at this, first and foremost – good, so: [[Abg. Strache: Do not insult the “blue eye ”!]] Are you so naïve? Can you say that? I don't know. Is that a call for order? [[Abg. Strache: That was a question, not an order call!]] – The fact is that you seem to have no access to direct democracy. And if it was said here that the FPÖ had not yet set up any initiatives here: Mrs Musiol, you know very well that we have already put forward proposals here, and they have been consistently rejected by the Greens. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We liberals say – and this is always the point of discussion –: Direct democracy, the people must be allowed and able to do whatever Parliament can. There must be no restrictions on the subject in the case of referendums. That is the crucial point. And if we start, suddenly here some, I do not know, for what reason, because of political correctness or anything else, to prescribe issues related to the European Union, we must not vote on this and that, then we are on the way to wood. And there we differ from one another. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We now have this European citizens' initiative, which the Commission has to approve – combined with an incredible effort, which, as it looks, will make up around one million euros. Then the citizens' initiative goes back to the European Commission, which will then have to comment in any form after three months without any obligation. So an incredibly toothless thing with an incredible effort. But we can't find about it today, that's so predetermined. But what we can find out about is the implementation in Austria, and here we shoot beyond the goal. It has been said quite rightly that we are blocking and hindering this small plant in addition, where we know that this citizens' initiative is not binding. Why do we create so great obstacles here that we do not even have in some cases in the choice of letters? [[In the case of the FPÖ, as well as the BZÖ Members.]] [[Abg. Grosz: But why do you agree?]] [[Abg. Strache: Because we will use the instrument!]] The election of letters, which is actually a decision on the Austrian right to vote, will take quite different measures and will actually undermine all our initiatives to create security in this area. But when it comes to a citizens' initiative that has no liability, we set stricter standards. To Mr Wittmann's argument, it would be terrible if the big states could undermine the other smaller states: It doesn't matter! If the Commission gets a suggestion, I have no problem. It is something else if there was a vote and then we would come under the wheels here. And precisely against that, we have always resisted. That is why we have always been the small states and Austria for veto law. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You are then deaf when it comes to the fact that there can be majority decisions at European level, that is always to say, we must not block anything, we must be the largest Europeans at all. But when it comes to a citizens' initiative, which is completely nebulos, where nothing can actually happen, then we are suddenly so delicate, there must be no majority where the Austrians are not present. We've already heard these obstacles, for example, the ID number. Yes, why does that really have to be? If, in fact, there is a false signature in a citizens' initiative, it is not beautiful, but that is in fact completely irrelevant, because it is not binding, which ultimately comes out. In addition, we collect data here. We collect data here, where the question arises whether in this form we do not even make an intervention in fundamental rights, because here for something that has no effect, we collect a whole lot of data, including this ID number, which naturally makes it more interesting to access these data and perhaps commit data abuse or steal data. You can't forget that either. That is to say, we are, in fact, taking another step forward in the fundamental rights of citizens, and we are creating another possibility for data abuse. And for what? – In order to achieve a non-binding citizens' initiative. [[Complaints with FPÖ and BZÖ.]] [[Abg. Grosz: But then you must reject it too!]] Our attitude to this is: It's a tiny little plant. [[Abg. Grosz: This is a small cactus, not a small plant!]] It opens the way for citizens to join together in several countries and to be heard on a particular subject. And that is why we agree. We say that there is at least this possibility, and it will certainly be possible to discuss issues which have not yet been on the European Parliament's agenda because initiatives can be put in place here. That is why we agree. [[Abg. Strache: No to Turkey's accession, that's a topic! That is what we are going to do in Europe.]] There are enough problems with the regulation, there are enough problems with the law, there are many more problems with direct democracy in Austria, but there is a small approach.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e8666	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Van der Bellen. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e8688	Mr President. Mr Stefan! Milestone, big step – I would also be careful. But we agree, at least it is new, it is for the first time that such an instrument of direct democracy is introduced in the European Union. We will see how it is proven, and in a few years this will surely be evaluated. But it is good that there is this new instrument for the recovery of European democracy. Everyone agrees on this. Only the kindness of the instrument does not seem to go far enough to the BZÖ. – My God, we will be able to live with it. I also wonder about some things in the law, but for some reason that is so. For example, I have taken the motion for a resolution that Member States do not have uniform rules on what is related to: Citizenship or residence. In the case of a European Citizens' Initiative, I think it would be obvious to link up with the residence. Why should a German who has been living here in Vienna for 30 years not be allowed to participate in a European citizens' initiative here?- Oh, my God! [[Abg. Strache: That's right!]] But these are things that will certainly be to be discussed over the years. It may not be a milestone, it's progress. Something is guaranteed to be outstanding – and I then come to the contrast with the state of European democracy – and there are certainly rules for a European referendum. There was no agreement on this under the Lisbon Treaty. We do not have uniform rules for referendums in each Member State. Mustn't be either. Should the Irish do it this way and the Germans different. I wouldn't get into that. But that binding European referendums are currently simply impossible, because there is no legal basis for this, I find that extremely unsatisfactory. [[Congratulation with the Greens as well as with representatives of the BZÖ.]] That'll be a question. Croatia will be taken up unanimously, I have no doubt about that, but there could be one case where one Member State could, for some reason, have a resentment and claim its veto right against the accession of another – essentially only the Balkan states. 27 national veto rights in such a case I find extremely problematic. And, of course, much more important: future Treaty changes. It must be possible that future Treaty changes will not be voted in the current procedure, but through a European referendum that takes place on the same day. It is then possible to discuss whether, depending on the weight of the change in the Treaty, the Swiss model should be applied in addition, as it were, in the majority of the European population, but in addition, a majority of the states. So the referendum must have led to a majority in the majority of states. This is a kind of minority protection within the Union. The citizens' initiative at European level is certainly a good thing and will be able to ensure a better perception of citizens' rights in the Union. But, ladies and gentlemen, it is in a rather shrill contrast with the current development of European democracy, namely the erodement of European democracy, which has been continuing for at least three years now. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Ing. Hofer.]] First and foremost, I mean what is supposed to be the increase in the intergovernmental method and what one must call less purposely than German-French cartel. In this way, Europe cannot be ruled in the long term! Mr Wittmann. I have heard with amazement how you – he is not in the hall right now – have been working for the meaning of the smaller countries within the Union. - Yeah, yeah. Here's a point of approach! That is exactly what it is that the French-German cartel is currently determining the development: Walks by the sea of Merkel and Sarkozy, then we read in the “Financial Times” what they made up, and some time later we may find out in official ways – and that, as I was quite assured by individual ministries, according to the motto: Please don't worry that you haven't got any information yet, we've only received the information at the Council's meeting as a table template! – This is how Europe is governed in the Merkozy system! But the worst are these hybrid constructions, most recently in the Fiscal Pact, previously in the EFSF, in the future in the ESM, where there is an agreement on international treaties, but under use – I say: using misuse! – European institutions involvement of the European Commission in a way that de facto goes beyond the Commission's degradation, and in particular with the complete elimination of the European Parliament. [[Congratulation with the Greens as well as with representatives of the FPÖ]] This is the development of European democracy: away from the basic rules of democracy to the increasing power of the Heads of Government! And of course, you almost have to say, it is not the Austrian head of government, but the German-French cartel to which this development is moving. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Dr. Fichtenbauer]] I do not think that we should let this happen any longer, but I think that our Austrian Members should take an example here in the Austrian Parliament – I hate to say so – of the self-confidence of the German Bundestag. I hate to say it because I hate to quote the German model. [[Abg. Wheeler: Why?]] But in this case, I like to do it. The German Bundestag has reserved itself under the EFSF rights, of which the Austrian Parliament can only dream, Mr Colleague. In Austria, the EFSF has completely passed Parliament de facto. This is about billions, as the FPÖ will not tire out to stress; it is also in exceptional circumstances. This was a number in the Balance of Payments Stabilisation Act, which has once been increased. In the German Bundestag this is a law of its own – a law of its own, where the Bundestag still has the right to grant its approval in individual cases. Last Monday, that is, yesterday, in the German Bundestag, the vote was on the second Greece package under this law. Interestingly, Chancellor Merkel did not get a majority within her government group, but she had the majority for the package with the votes of SPD and Greens. As I said, this is a law of its own. In Austria? - No! It's all over us. We must ensure that this does not go exactly this way again in the context of the forthcoming ESM debate. We cannot be offered this as Austrian National Councillors! [[Congratulation with the Greens as well as with representatives of the FPÖ.]] In addition, ladies and gentlemen, especially those of ÖVP and SPÖ: I don't think there are many countries where a government can say: We propose that Parliament be reduced, and then that Parliament should not then stand up like a man or a woman, saying: But you don't have anything to tell us! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Hörl.]] We want to exercise our rights! We are the control instrument! We are a control instrument vis-à-vis the government. Would you like to weaken control? Okay, let's talk about Parliament's role, let's look at how the German Members of the Bundestag are equipped, with speakers, with staff, so that they can carry out these additional tasks at all, for example within the EFSF! – With our staff stand, I have to say, I have the greatest inhibitions to take over such tasks. How are we supposed to do that? On top of that, like the government and the government groups, do I have to accept Did you know about it? [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Have you said silently and secretly: Well, it's all right!Unknown term type: "%s".? [[Abg. Wenninger: Not at all!]] – Or have you experienced it as a table template almost according to the merkozy pattern? [[New call for tender of the Abg. Wenninger.]] Then you have to be very excited if it was! “Do it!” – Well. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. May. Josef Auer: Do Ma already!]] I hope so, colleague. In conclusion: The European Citizens' Initiative is an essential step forward in European democracy, but at the same time stands in stark contrast to what is happening at other levels, namely the gradual elimination or ignore of the European Parliament, the elimination of the European institutions and thus a complete shift of power within the European institutions in favour of the Prime Ministers. And that can't be in Austrian interest, because that's exactly what the cartel of “Merkozy” promotes.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e8846	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Herbs. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e8868	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Yes, of course, Mr Van der Bellen, we will discuss in silence the working conditions in the House, the constituencies and all that is related to our concerns. You are also right as far as the real constitution in the EU is concerned, I am entirely with you, and that is why it is a milestone when, for the first time in Europe, it is possible for the population to participate in a democratic process. Of course, it's a start, it's a start and a development process, like so much in the changing history of the EU – with shortcomings, with legitimate criticism and also with understandable anger. Once again I recommend Hugo Portisch “What now?” because it describes very well how political development has actually happened within the EU in the past and should also be in the future. Hugo Portisch on the one hand and irrantious populists on the other, who on the one hand worry about more democracy, but on the other hand are fundamentally destructive. For how else can this be understood when the FPÖ says: We do not take part in liability! or: Let us split the EU into a northern and southern part! or: Let's go back to Schilling, to our own currency!Unknown term type: "%s".? No one understands anything! For example, we are an industrialized country with 8 million inhabitants, who are urgently dependent on EU membership, which is in existence. Or: Italy would probably be south. – Did you escape 10 percent of our economic volume with Italy? Or: one's own currency, one's schilling, so playing ball of speculation. – This also testifies to an economic incompetence that ridicules every description, ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ! [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] And Mr Strache is here and wants to explain democracy! – He should finally call Mr Scheuch, which would once be a political sign of democracy. A head of state, condemned for corruption! Mr Strache, you could act politically there once! Finally, take Mr Scheuch away from his function! [[Abg. Blech: Are you talking about Mr. Androsch or Mr. Blecha? Or who are you talking about?]] As far as the credibility of a citizens' initiative is concerned, it is, of course, crucial that manipulation, abuse and forgery are made impossible. This is a question of trust and credibility. That is why it is a crucial question. And if it is currently necessary to show a passport or ID card, then you have to say: The procedure must be as simple as possible, but vice versa also as safe as possible. This is a political weighting of goods. Which topics are still crucial for citizens' initiatives this year? What burns under the nails? – The financial markets must be regulated, speculation must be regulated, banking systems must be reformed, and, of course, the social issues of Europe, unemployment, youth unemployment, security for the elderly, care, care, but also environmental issues, energy policy, anti-atomic policy and much more. If I look at the statements made by Mr Mario Draghivon of the European Central Bank, who on the one hand liquidates 529 billion for banks, on the other hand, the European social state model no longer exists, then I must say: There is actually no worse provocation, but, in the opposite, there is no better motivation than that the population of Europe has a corresponding answer! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e8916	Next speaker: Mr. Hörl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e8938	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Today, at national level, we are regulating the European Citizens' Initiative, and I think it will not be so bad if the BZÖ is not in the process. I would like to say to you, Mr Strache: You could have saved the comment with the “worship and control”. I would recommend that you focus on Carinthia, on your colleague Scheuch, because I think you have enough to do that. [[The speaker makes his statements at high speed.]] And something else: As a Member of this House, I would like to have some information on all points. Please don't suggest that I'm against reconnaissance. - That on this point. [[Abg. Scheibner: Speak slower!]] [[The speaker continues to speak very quickly.]] Besides, I'm glad you're there too. I have the honourful task of submitting an amendment. [[Abg. Slower!]] [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Abg. Strache: We didn't understand that now, that's why we repeat!]] [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Abg. Dr. Fichtenbauer: (in the direction of bureau) Please, to business!]] [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Abg. Strache: (in the direction of ÖVP) Is this a plantation or?]] [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Abg. Strache: This is a plantation!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: (in the direction of Bureau) Mr President, please!]] [[Quoted print version removed]] The proposed amendments are all legal adjustments. I had the honourful task of presenting this here in Parliament with a rhetorical highest performance. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] Mrs Bundesminister, I can thank you for your commitment in Tyrol. We Tyroleans are most satisfied with the police in Tyrol. We still need some improvements in tourism castles, so I ask you. – Thank you very much for your attention!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e9155	The amendment which has just been tabled has been properly and flawlessly tabled in accordance with the text before me and is therefore under negotiation. [[Ironic cheerfulness as well as intermediate calls at FPÖ and BZÖ]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e9240	On the Rules of Procedure: Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e9264	Mr President. I suggest that the amendment tabled by my previous speaker does not comply with the provisions of Parliament's Rules of Procedure: He didn't understand what he was talking about. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] It was not a single person in the whole house able to track it acoustically. [[Complaints with FPÖ and BZÖ.]] It may be that the paper is properly formulated, but this request has not been filed on a business basis.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e9314	For business treatment: Mr Scheibner, please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e9335	Mr President. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats has said that it was Mr Hörl's best speech when he presented this amendment. I believe that if Parliamentaryism is taken seriously – and I have just heard how important this initiative is – then not a few speakers can bring an amendment here before the end of the debate at such a pace that we cannot check what is really being changed. I therefore request that the vote on this item on the agenda be moved backwards.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e9366	No further words are available. A desire for a debate was not expressed. I follow the request for a vote at the end. However, I should like to point out that the clubs are in themselves aware of the text by making this amendment. Mr Fichtenbauer. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e9413	Mr President. High house! All those who take the word “democracy” into their mouths can now be measured by the mourning that Mr Hörl has just offered us. [[Complaints with FPÖ and BZÖ.]] It is scandalous to call this request a parliamentary request at all. [[Abg. Grosz:... a sad figure!]] That's a disregard, a complete disregard! We are prepared to vote against this request, namely item 1 of the agenda. If we do not follow the request to move to the end of the debate, our group will not agree. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Don't agree! It's immense. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg.: (in the direction of FPÖ) It does not at all pay attention to what has been said!]] How is that coordinated? [[Abg.: (again towards FPÖ) It doesn't care at all!]] I'm more careful, but you have no idea what you're bringing in! [[Complaints with FPÖ and BZÖ.]] [[New calls to the ÖVP.]] Read this! If you are able to return what your horns have presented here now, you will get the gold medal for giant ears. You have no idea what you're talking about here! That's incredible! You're executives, not parliamentarians! [[New applause at FPÖ and BZÖ.]] And at all: The best speech – apart from the speeches from our group – has been given here by Professor Van der Bellen. Yes, what he said was written on parchment, and everyone should learn it externally. [[Congratulations with FPÖ, BZÖ and Greens.]] A perfect analysis of the condition! I congratulate Mr Professor Van der Bellen on this excellent parliamentary analysis of the state: Austria in relation to the EU and how we fail to reflect this misunderstanding. Because fact is: What we should decide or decide here is the implementation of the European Regulation. And to all those who talk about it being a milestone: I don't know what miles you have in your head. The German mile was about 2,000 meters, the nautical mile is 1 860 meters, which is very large dimensions. But this is a mile where a mouse has to walk, because the basic concept or the basic effect is that the whole thing is under the command of the Commission. First of all, the Commission's approval until the citizens' initiative is introduced, all of this is under the Commission's regime. - Who can talk about a big milestone?- Oh, my God! And whether it is approved or not: It can only be submitted to Parliament and it is up to the Commission to decide again. And the organizers only have a hearing right in the EU Parliament. And then the end of the citizens' initiative. [[Abg. Grosz: You can only reject that!]] In contrast to our view in the Committee, why do we want to agree to this, lies in a quote of Saint Augustine: It's better to light a candle than to complain about the darkness. – And a candle in relation to darkness is all. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Grosz: Poor Augustine!]] To the law itself. [[Abg. Grosz: The Augustine didn't deserve that!]] You have no idea! A question of legal science must be raised in this context, namely: There's now the possibility to listen, then maybe you'll learn something! [[New call for tender of the Abg. Grosz.]] There is now the possibility to lodge a complaint with the Constitutional Court in the event that the application in accordance with § 2 para. 1 shall not be followed, and in the event that a review of the grant of support referred to in paragraph 3 of Section 3 is not approved. [[Call at the SPÖ: No one understands that!]] You can hear that very well! Or you are not able to vote because you lack the physical ability to exercise your office. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Then we'll get the doctor to tell you. The application authority shall be bound by a written notification. I have already expressed in the Committee, without any hope, that you understand it, that a central concept of Austrian administrative law and state doctrine is the knowledge, i.e. a notice that agrees on rights, advocates or negatives. The notice is the triggering criterion in order to lodge a complaint about an refused right. . Here we have only the concept of written communication. This can now be reinterpreted as a decision, but I do not think it necessary. One could have chosen the solution in a clear choice of terms which, in accordance with Austrian administrative and administrative law, should be connected to a decision. In summary – Mrs. Musiol is not here – excuse me!Use custom fonts; [[Calls for Greens]] They went to the back seat –: We are once and for all against the right of foreigners to vote. H.-C. Strache has caused the Constitutional Court to have the illegal, unconstitutional law tipped into Vienna. That's it. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] From time to time, it is also good that the dividing lines that one has between one person and another are taken out sharply. Again: You can't talk about Milestone. It's a little better than before. But it is a modest, very modest content of a hugely announced milestone. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e9620	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Dr. Pirklhuber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e9642	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! After this blatant speech by my colleague Mr Fichtenbauer, I would like to follow up on the comparison you have rightly described here. Between Mr Hörl's speech and the analysis of my colleague Van der Bellen, there are definitely worlds. [[Abg. Strache: But he is also an exception head with the Greens! You have to say that wisely!]] With regard to this definition and this question, which stands in the room and which really interests citizens, namely: What about democracy in Austria?, we have a lot to do with it. It's not like the BZÖ says we're a pioneer and it's been that way with us 25 years ago. [[Abg. Scheibner: No one said that at all! Where were you all the time? No one said that!]] Yes, who made sure 25 years ago that the citizens' initiative in Austria could also be introduced into Parliament? - The Greens! In 1986 we moved to the National Council. It was one of our central demands that there be direct instruments in Parliament too. [[Abg. Scheibner: They threw the fux out! The Herbert Fux!]] But – and there we are at the But – that starts with the simple things, namely minority rights, and again the comparison with the German Bundestag: What about minority rights in the committee of inquiry? What about the control rights in this House? So if we here – and this is said in the direction of BZÖ – criticise the fact that this European citizens' initiative as an instrument is still too weak and insufficient: Yes, very well, Mr Scheibner, we have also formulated the criticism. [[Abg. Scheibner: But you did not prevail!]] But the criticism that the identity card or passport number must be given is that this criticism must be addressed to the Federal Government – rightly to the Federal Government! [[Abg. Scheibner: Yes, eh! You had it in your hand!]] We will not fight and take action here in Parliament just because the German Government has negotiated something wrong in Annex. [[Abg. Scheibner: But we are talking about a federal law today!]] Our position is another: We want this European citizens' initiative. We want to actively support them. It is necessary to strengthen civil society, here in Austria, across Europe, so that we can finally address these necessary improvements, both in representative democracy and in direct democratic elements! Let's just look at the comparison again! How does it look when we compare it? Some aspects have been raised. A European citizens' initiative requires less than 15 000 support in Austria. We are present at European initiatives in the future with 15,000 citizens here in this country. That's really a low quorum. If Mr. Strache thinks that a million is a lot – and I mean from the bank, that's not that much –: [[Abg. Strache: An Austrian million must count as much! That's important!]] Look, Mr. Strache, that's where we see the difference. Our perspective is a European political debate. Of course, one can also lead them in a national state, but then these instruments are there to force the Federal Government to take those steps that are necessary in order to take a position at European level. But European instruments are in place to bring forward the European Parliament to bring the Commission's opinion accordingly. There we are now on the question: What about practical implementation? – I would like to say to you: The European Parliament has worked massively to ensure that this hearing becomes mandatory. The Commission must give an opinion, and of course Parliament is involved at European level. As far as the procedure is concerned, I can say directly that I was in the European Parliament yesterday in the Committee on Petitions – that has not yet been mentioned: the right of petition is now available, every citizen can send petitions to the European Commission, to the European Parliament – and I looked at the Committee on Petitions in the European Parliament yesterday, as is the case there. In fact, at European level, every petitioner has a right to speak in the Committee on Petitions and all the representatives of the Commission, and there are also real speeches and answers to very specific petitions that were negotiated in the Committee yesterday. For example, this is a point, something that is not the case here in Austria. So when we talk about the European and Austrian elements, we also need to go in to advance the procedure here. I find, however, that the joint proposal that Mr Hörl has so “downturned” – unfortunately – has very important positive orientations, namely simply to evaluate this instrument in the first three years, to develop a central online system. If we want European initiatives, we must also set up online systems at European level. A right to reimbursement for the initiatives concerned is also an important element. And the uniform regulation of support across Europe – unity is in itself a story that should be a minimum standard. It is now nationally regulated. Each Member State must implement it itself by means of a regulation. As far as the instruments we need in Austria are concerned, we have on 13 November. In October 2011, an application was submitted. And we are waiting for this request for more direct democracy in Austria to finally be on the agenda. I expect it to be on the agenda in the Constitutional Committee at the next meeting, at least before April, so that we can finally further develop the elements here, so that citizens can play an active role in bringing their opinion directly to Parliament. Since 4. We have introduced online support here in Parliament as part of the Committee on Petitions and Citizens' Initiatives, and today we have almost 60 000 online support against data storage on the website of the Austrian Parliament. This too is an innovation that needs to be mentioned on this occasion. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We Greens, we will be on the side of civil society when it comes to setting up European initiatives against nuclear policy in Europe, on food free from genetic engineering, on social rights. We will support civil society. That is why this European Citizens' Initiative is a first important step in the right direction, which we will take from 1. ==References====External links== - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e9769	Next speaker: Mr Prehauser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e9790	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Mr Pirklhuber said it right: It is not a mile-long step in the right direction, but it is a right step in the right direction. Because Mr Fichtenbauer the honourable Member I would also like to pay tribute to Van der Bellen and his analysis of Europe. It has said precisely what is to be said here, if one wants to make a little criticism, in her comments. Ladies and gentlemen! For me, there is no question at all that – a man with charm cannot be wrong in the place in Parliament, Mr. Fichtenbauer! [[Abg. Dr. Fichtenbauer: serve the female charm!]] You didn't really get away with the charm. I just want to say: If you can bring in movement in 27 countries of Europe with a million votes divided into seven nations, then this is really a progress. One has to imagine the following – let us take Austria as an example –: What would some here say if 500 000 Greeks or a million Greeks wanted to tell us about such a way tomorrow what we have to do? - That's where the vulture would be quite big. [[Abg. May. Stefan: This is a citizens' initiative!]] For example, if you think that only the French would have to determine, only the Germans – we really don't want that. [[Abg. May. Stefan: This is a citizens' initiative! That's not a binding thing!]] I believe that this one million, divided into seven states, with the share that Austria has to make, is a very, very good solution, a first real way to bring about movement. We will then be able to measure whether we are able to create citizens' desires, whether we are able to transport ideas in Europe, find approval, and then listen to us in Europe. And this is easier with 17 000 votes than 500 000 or one million. The idea of being able to work for Europe is indeed the basis of this law, in order to bring the European Parliament in the right direction. I think ladies and gentlemen, you should not block this path, you should accompany it. One may be calmly critical, that is not a question, but one should not rebuild a path that one has struggled hard with concrete. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e9854	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Huainigg. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e9875	Mr President. Minister! High house! Last year a Frenchman, who is 93 years old, wrote a book entitled “Sorry!” and called for a small “French Revolution”. The book became a bestseller. I do not think we need “French Revolution”, but we need more direct democracy, more citizen participation, because many people feel that politics decides, acts and forces matters that do not correspond to the opinion of the population. And here we need more direct democracy. A good example is the Austrian Parliament. The citizens' initiatives have been in place since last year, and they are being used very well. There are 500 signatures that can also be given online. And even during the review, it is enough if the first consignor is legitimated and checked that he appears in the constituency. With the European Citizens' Initiative, we are setting an important sign, and Europe is an important sign of civil participation – an instrument that will be introduced for the first time. Of course, it has childhood diseases – which has already been described in great detail – such as the identity certificate by passport or identity card. Driving licence and e-card are not enough because it is not possible to prove nationality. But I believe that the evaluation and over time this instrument will be a major step forward. And it will also be an instrument for disabled people who can also set up initiatives at home, such as access to the labour market or vocational training. This citizens' initiative in Europe is a sign that Europe is not taking place anywhere in Brussels, but that we are Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e9917	Mrs Mag. Steßl-Mühlbacher. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e9939	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! The European Citizens' Initiative has been identified as the first step in many speeches. That's what I want to call it. It is a compromise, on which we agree. In particular, it is important that all EU citizens have equal access to the European Citizens' Initiative. However, what needs to be changed in the long term is that this European citizens' initiative is not yet uniform in all EU countries. At the moment, it is true that this legal instrument is in line with national electoral rights and, of course, there are differences. Our goal should also be to use us at European level – and this is also addressed to you, Mrs Federal Minister – to ensure that we also have uniform rules for all. But what distinguishes Austria is one thing that has not yet been addressed: Austria is the only country in which 16-year-olds can support this European Citizens' Initiative. And what do the young people say about this European citizens' initiative? What do they represent for an opinion? There is a very interesting study by the Austrian Society for European Policy: For example, young people see it quite differently – as mentioned earlier – as far as the so-called collection of signatures is concerned that the effort is too great, especially in the case of many different countries. Young people see the whole thing more relaxed: probably because they have grown up with Facebook; probably because they can think more over state borders than some here in the House. And it is certainly also an important instrument. Especially when we talk about anti-atomic electricity, financial transaction taxes or also bans on genetic engineering in food, this European citizens' initiative will of course be a good instrument; a first step, especially in times when the citizens of Europe, not only in Austria, are EU-sceptical. And I believe that it is important that we take part in the citizens' participation, that we also create understanding and that we also inform the citizens and allow them to participate in it. One more thing about the Greens' motion for a resolution: That's a good idea. We made such a request in 2005. We cannot join this only at the moment, because we need about 50 to 100 planning posts, and in the current financial situation this is not possible. I think we have to solve this financing issue first. All in all, my dear ones. Ladies and gentlemen: It may be just a first step, but it is an important step towards citizen participation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e9981	No one is reporting on this. I'll close the debate. As a short-term amendment has been tabled, I am putting the vote to the next items to be discussed until after the vote on Agenda items 2 and 3, and we are therefore continuing to complete the agenda. [[12:19:40]] 2. Point Report by the Constitutional Committee on Amendment No 1795/A by Dr Josef Cap, Karlheinz Kopf, Members and colleagues on a Federal Act amending the ORF Act (1669, e.g.) 3rd. Point Report and request of the Constitutional Committee on the draft federal law amending the Audiovisual Media Services Act (1670, e.g.)
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e10030	On points 2 and 3 of the agenda, the debate will be held under one. The debate opens up to Mr Wittmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e10055	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr. State Secretary! This bill is essentially also a concern of sport, because the following situation has occurred through the decisions of the Kommunestria: We originally defined five prime sports at the level of the European Union in the introduction of the Television Directive. These were the competitions of the World and European Championships in football, mainly the football Bundesliga, ski races, Formula 1 races and the Olympic Summer and Winter Games. This list was not taxatative, but only demonstrative. Several competitions have now been declared as prime sports through the decision of the KommerAustria, which would have led to their being broadcast only on television. But since there is no market there and they are not sent on TV, so ORF 1 and 2, they could no longer be sent to ORF Sport Plus. In order to achieve a balance between private TV operators and the ORF and sport, one has come together to find a new formulation and has agreed on the following ways: That the ORF only more than the Sports events that have an Austrian reference, such as Austrian venue, or a World Championship, such as the Ice Hockey B World Championship, which was the occasion, and these interesting events must be offered to private television operators. If there is no market for this, and these television operators do not observe this offer, then it can be sent on ORF Sport Plus. This is immensely important for sport, because we would have emptied ORF Sport Plus without all the positive and good events that have an Austrian reference. For sport, it is vital to live in a television station in order to have the possibility of the public as well, and I would ask you to have as broad a consent as possible to this regulation.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e10097	Next speaker: Member of the Council of Ministers of the European Communities. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e10118	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! These two media regulations include, on the one hand, a regulation that allows private individuals to offer more programmes – that is, I think, a good thing to open up the television market – and, on the other hand, this clarification, which OrF's sports competitions in its sports broadcasting channel ORF Sport Plus may also offer in the future. I think it is important to define a wide-ranging TV presence for all sports areas here, because it is just OrF Sport Plus that has been set up for all sports that may not happen otherwise in the sporting and media events. Why is this of such interest to Austrian sport? – A TV is omnipresent, a TV is in every living room, and if we reach children and young people, even all the levels of population, we may also be able to motivate one or the other to move. This is certainly beneficial in terms of health for our state, and above all it has an economic background. Many clubs, many organizers depend on sports sponsorship from the private sector, and therefore, of course, a public as broad as possible is very important. With regard to the sports that would otherwise have come through – at ORF Sport Plus they were not allowed to be played, ORF 1 did not play them, and the private did not come to the train – one has now found a new mode. As far as the procedure is concerned, it is also to be said that all market participants were involved. That was a very good, constructive basis. The new way now looks so that the ORF offers this on transparent, economically normal conditions, I want to say to the private, and if it does not take it, ORF Sport Plus is authorized to send these sports, events, events. This is important to make the sport available to the general public, and I believe that these fair market mechanisms are particularly important for the Austrian television market.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e10164	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Fichtenbauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e10185	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Peter Wittmann told us that the business is a noble thing. Peter Wittmann is a noble man. That is why the matter he represents is a noble one, and that is why we shall agree. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] [[Abg. May. Gaßner: We will take you by word!]] But – but! – a number of absurdities, which were democratically unbearable, have begun to disdain Parliament and are undoubtedly such. It was not even 24 hours before the committee meeting that the draft law was passed at all – no trace of evaluation, no trace of sufficient consultation on the part of Parliament. It has the urgent and undisputed appearance that the text of the law has been taken out between ORF and VÖZ – the association of Austrian newspaper companies. Se non è vero è mal travato. [[Call at the SPÖ:latein hour?]] So: If it's not supposed to be true, it's also bad spoken. So we should not really deal with the production of legal proposals. The reason why we agree is the obvious fact that it benefits the peripheral sports, so that the so-called prime sports do not at least occur in the ORF and, by not taking over other private individuals, so much the peripheral sports, whatever they may be, fall through between the armchairs. We don't want to. We also support sports concerns in a media-related way, and that is why – but only because of that! – we will give the law our consent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e10245	Next speaker: Mr Brosz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e10266	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! First of all on the contents of the template. – However, there is no longer too much to say about this. Both areas make sense. One point was that it should also be possible for private individuals to operate several television channels. This is also an up-to-date Causa and refers mainly to the new ATV2 station, which thereby also receives a legal basis. There is no objection to it, it makes sense. The same applies from the point of view also to the question of the transfer rights to Sport Plus. However, I would like to do this a little closer. There are two different arguments. The ORF has always gone here and said: What we're transferring doesn't interest the private at all. This is not about the football Bundesliga, because it may be about table tennis, about hockey transfers, about sports that are not so in the public's focus. The private on the other hand have always said: But no offer has been made to us at all. We might be interested in some things. – This is now, as it were, the opportunity to review that, and if in practice it is so that there is also the possibility for private individuals to acquire rights here, to transfer it, and they also make it, then it is certainly a progress. It may also play a positive role in the issue of the quality of ORF transfers. However, what is still unclear and not satisfactory – I also mentioned this in the Committee; Mr Wittmann then also gave an answer –: If there is a transfer on Sport Plus – and now I say the keyword Table Tennis – and at the end of the transfer is on it: With the support of the Ministry of Sport, I wonder what this is for a public-law mission. Just to remember: We have made an ORF law in which we have established that the findings are inter alia bound to this sports channel. And in practice, the following happens: That Sport Plus says: We already transfer, but only if we can remove additional production costs. If one makes this offer to the private, then the question arises whether they would not be transferred more. I think it is absolutely illegal that a public broadcasting service with broadcasting charges, with a third-party reporting order, in Sport Plus, makes its transmission dependent on the payment of production costs. Mr Zinggl also reported in the Committee that this is not only the case in sport, but also in various cultural events, that the ORF as a public-law channel does not make its transfers dependent on editorial, journalistic criteria, but also on whether it can also manage money. This cannot be a form of public broadcasting in Austria! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It would be a possibility to keep that in the law – then it is handled relatively simply – so far, there has been no way to do so. On the democratic policy addressed by Mr Fichtenbauer: He's absolutely right about that. The original application was a purely editorial correction of the last ORF law and had nothing to do with these two points at all. Then comes 24 hours before, I think, ten minutes before the deadline, an amendment that – and this is particularly original – has been written again by the interest groups, namely by the private and the ORF authorities, as was the case at the ORF Act last time. By the way, the situation has come exactly there – see Facebook activities, online activities – of which we have already said: This will not be the case, the ORF will explain it as he believes, and it will come to a decision as it is now present. Now the public-law has massive problems to send in the online area or to be able to make offers. I mean, a public-law without an online offer is no longer imaginable in these times. But that was predictable. And now I'm telling you what you're writing in this law in the explanatory statement. It is hardly anyone who speaks about it, but the Secretary of State, I suppose, will still speak. [[State Secretary Dr Ostermayer denied.]] - No? Too bad. [[State Secretary Dr. Ostermayer: This is an initiative from Parliament!]] That's Parliament's initiative. – The ORF Parliament with the private Parliament, where the interest groups first spoke. But the wording is basically, the ORF has to go here now and say: We make an offer that private people can say we take the offer or not! That's what it's supposed to be. Then you could have written: It must be demonstrated. - The ORF didn't want that. Then the private people said: But there has to be some form, because how else is it?, and then the following wording has been made: ‘The term ‘belief’ is to be understood as meaning that it is not ‘full proof’ but the vast probability that is required.’ [[Rejoicing with the greens.]] “A mere claim is not sufficient. The scale, when the existing conditions are credible, can be different from one constellation to another.” Wonderful! A wonderful reason which we decide again in the Austrian Parliament! [[Abg. Oils: Clear!]] Clear! This will not allow any interpretation at all, it will be completely clear to everyone. And what was it? – Once again, interest groups have written the law – and not politics. Mr Cap and Mr Kopf, you are the media speaker of the government parties, therefore: Let us remember that laws are made in Parliament – not by the ORF, not by the VÖZ, and not by interest groups. [[Abg. Head: But let's involve those involved, right?]] Yeah, but then they're not supposed to write such a bullshit, and we'll take it too! Then let us write in a reasonable regulation!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e10372	Next speaker: Mr Huber, please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e10393	Mr State Secretary! Mr President. At first I would like to welcome students of the HTL Spengergasse in Vienna. Ladies and gentlemen, it is very important that sporting events can continue to be transferred. The sports organisers need to be transferred, and it doesn't matter whether private television is broadcast, whether ORF Plus is broadcast, or whether the ORF is broadcast. And it's not always about the cock comb race in Kitz, it's about quite different sports – we've heard that already today – whether it's table tennis, or it's ice hockey. We must ensure that youth, as much as possible, is motivated by the transfer of sporting events. It is, as I believe, quite a lot of sports organisers in terms of funding, completely in the air. You can't agree with that. But if you look at what the ORF does: The ORF threatens the Federal Minister for Sport: Dear Federal Minister, if you do not participate in the production costs, then we will not be transferred! and in the same breath, however, he also refuses the private that they can transfer. I think that's where we all have to be. We must point out this abuse, because an ORF equipped with 160 million euros of tax money and levying compulsory fees should not use such methods. On Saturday I talked to the supervisor of Rapid-Lienz. The sports organizers do not understand why the federal channels are not opened. Why is the ORF still so slow? I hope that the Secretary of State will finally become active there and that you will see that you continue to make sport as public as possible, even in order to motivate young people to engage in sports themselves.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e10426	No one is reporting on this. I therefore conclude the debate. We come to the votes. We shall vote separately on each of the Committee's proposals. First, we come to the vote on the draft federal law, which amends the ORF Act, together with the title and receipt in 1669 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this draft to be a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. If you also agree to this draft at third reading, I would ask for your sign. – That is unanimous. The draft was therefore adopted at third reading. Vote on the draft Federal Act amending the Audiovisual Media Service Act, including the title and receipt in 1670 of the Supplements. I ask for an acceptable sign. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now come to the third reading. If you agree to the draft in third reading, please give us a sign. – That is just as unanimous. The draft was therefore adopted at third reading. [[12:37:10]] Agenda item 1 vote
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e10490	We shall now proceed to the postponement of the vote on agenda item 1: Draft law in 1666 of the Supplements. The Members of Parliament have Magnificence here. Gerstl, Dr. Wittmann, Mag. Mr Musiol, ladies and gentlemen, tabled an amendment. Since the present draft law contains an amendment to the Federal Constitutional Act, I first put it within the meaning of § 82 para. 1 C 1 of the Rules of Procedure, the presence of the constitutional number of Members required for the vote. First of all, I shall vote on the parts affected by the amendment and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. Deputies Mag. Gerstl, Dr. Wittmann, Mag. Musiol, colleagues and I have tabled an amendment which refers to Articles 1, 2 and 8. Whoever joins these amendments, I ask for a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. I expressly note the two-thirds majority required by constitution. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft and the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I would ask those Members who are here for a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. Here, too, I expressly note the constitutionally required two-thirds majority. We shall come to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their approval to this draft at third reading to a sign on this point. – This is accepted by a majority. Here, too, I expressly note the constitutionally required two-thirds majority. The draft was therefore adopted at third reading. We now come to the vote on the resolution annexed to the Committee's report 1666 on improving the framework conditions for European citizens' initiatives. If you're for that, I'll ask for a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. (E 231.) Debates of the European Parliament Musiol, colleagues and colleagues on the Federal Office for Safety in Information Technology. If you support this motion for a resolution, I would ask for a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. [[12:39:03]] 4. Point Report of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry on the Government template (1616, e.g._Other Organiser Bundesgesetz, which amends the Market Regulation Act 2007 and the Market Rules Transfer Act (1654 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e10588	I'm calling 4. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. The debate led Mr Doppler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e10615	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! If today the Market Regulation Act 2007 and the Market Rules Transfer Act are amended, we see a major problem from the FPÖ in it, because it is precisely stated in this law that the milk quota scheme with 31. ==References== There is no replacement. Farmers, farmers who produce our healthy basic foods, stay on the road. Many farms in Austria have to survive economically, buy and build quotas and look through their fingers now. Mr Minister – unfortunately he is not here – please apologize! [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich: I'm here anyway!]] [[Abg. Bitch: Get in there!]] Mr Minister, I ask you and ask you to make an urgent replacement scheme so that more local farmers, in this case dairy farmers, do not have to leave their farms and no longer manage them. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, from the rural structure, our farms cannot keep up with the large dairy producers such as in Germany, France, Denmark. It is already difficult enough to find young people who are willing to take over a farm and also manage it. And if we withdraw them now, it will be even more difficult in the future to find young farmers who produce healthy basic foods. We from FPÖ do not, ladies and gentlemen, want our children and grandchildren to know farms only more from the stories. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e10673	Next speaker: Mr Eßl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e10695	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Doppler, I do not know what item you were talking about. Today, we are dealing with the Market Regulation Act 2007 and the Market Rules Transfer Act, which includes some minor changes such as a further step in decoupling. [[Abg. Doppler: Article 2 para. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank you for your support. Read exactly!]] Resources will be made available to those people who, for example, have agriculture in Bavaria and in Austria, who also receive the premiums for it. In return, of course, there is exactly the other thing, namely that those who are in Austria and have areas in Germany get the premiums there. This agreement also exists with other countries. It is also about the fact that data that go from the AMA to the Federal Ministry of Finance – this has been the case for a long time – is free of charge, the ground estimate by the Federal Office for Eich and Surveying and by the Ministry of Finance to the BMLUFW. Another point in this law, which we decide today, is that the reference areas to be determined in accordance with the agricultural parcel identification system should be adapted to the EU quality criteria for determining eligible land areas of land by means of a regulation. And of course, at least from my point of view, it is important to discuss whether the EU's rules and their implementation are really the way we want them to be. I am of the opinion that one must also look at the fact that one has practical solutions, and in the alpine area agriculture is just a little different than in the flat country. There are graves, bushes, there are tree groups, there are Heustadel. And there you should also talk about improvements, about simplifications. I therefore call critically the current digital recording of the landscape elements, which in the future will once again contain source of errors, where farmers can make some mistakes inadvertently and then face sanctions again. We really need to think about how we will come to a better system in the future. There is also another point in this law, namely that AMA's internet applications via the AMA's Internet Service Portal need appropriate terms of use, and these are to be regulated accordingly in a regulation. And in this law we create the basis for that. There are also a number of references to EU legal bases to be adapted, which are to be changed or partially ended, as the EU legal basis is also out of date. In total, however, these are not major changes that we are deciding on today. However, I have to say, of course, that we need a market order in the future, as overall liberalisation of markets cannot be the objective. A market needs rules and, of course, I hope that the new programme of the common agricultural policy for 2014 to 2020 will also contain provisions allowing such rules. And if there should no longer be any quantity control in the future, at least possibilities for controlling instruments should be included in the basics that are suitable for responding to production fluctuations to intervene in the event of market disturbances. I should like to take the opportunity to point out, on this item on the agenda, the many benefits of farmers who are provided every day in the interests of society. These benefits must be covered by agricultural prices, but also by public services. We need money in the budget for these public services. I am hopeful that we will be able to make this available in the future in the appropriate order. To sum up, I can say once again that we should, of course, support this change of law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e10731	Next speaker: Mr Huber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e10753	Federal Minister! Mr President. The Government template 1616 of the Supplements is clearly to be rejected. The main issue is that very, very many farmers, including cooperatives, have their cereals dried abroad. We from the BZÖ are in principle opposed to such a processing tourism, especially if it has to be subsidized by the EU in the first pillar and then re-fatted by the domestic budget, by domestic means. I ask the Federal Government to: Mr Federal Minister, we need to make a modern agricultural policy. As Minister of State, they have to ensure that the population is sufficiently supplied with food, but also with food that is sustainable. They have to ensure that the existence of farmers, that this profession is really protected, that the livelihoods are secured. We need to look at just a few examples of this new horror package that the Federal Government is sending out there. On mineral oil tax: 4.6 billion in 2008, the Federal Government took on mineral oil tax. 255.7 million of these have paid the farmers, which is 5.6 percent of the total income, but agriculture has consumed only 2.1 percent of this resource. And what does the Federal Government do? . Once again, it deteriorates the competitive conditions of farmers by deciding that there is no longer this small mineral oil tax refund. Other countries, many of our neighbours in the EU, have completely passed the mineral oil tax on agriculture. Austria is there, I think, on the wrong path. Again: Our task is to make modern agricultural policy, because the ÖVP is still responsible for the daily closure of holdings in Austria. In the end of the turnaround, we know that, for example, the basic food products – although the prices achieved by the farmer in Austria are lower than in Germany – still cost daily life in Austria a lot more. There should be price agreements and so on. I think it is really important for the Federal Minister to finally take action to stand up to agriculture and protect the population. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Bitch.]] [[Interference of Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich.]] [[Abg. Street: Lonely in the desert!]] The fact that Austria is no longer sedentary is seen. The next grayishness is to match the uniform values to the transport values. This is a dangerous threat. Let's just remember what's going on. What's going on? – This is justice, says the colleague of the SPÖ. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] This is justice, the justice that will then have such a massive effect in the form of basic tax that the rents will be incredibly expensive. And this redeployment tax is very far from the originally addressed model – that is not modern agricultural policy. This redeployment tax will have a one-to-one effect on the construction prices, on the house builders and on everyone. This is the modern agricultural policy of the ÖVP! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. That's right!]] This policy is responsible for the massive destruction of existences. Mr. Federal Minister, what do you want? Do you want a pure taxation of the substance as the SPÖ? Is that modern? Do you want all farmers to sell their substances so they can catch up on taxes? Or do you want the farmers to be expropriated according to the Tyrolean model? There you have to find clear words! We, the policy, are responsible for the income of farmers. It is quite clear that they are taxing this income, of course, but we must make it possible for farmers to generate income. Farmers also have nothing against keeping accounts and then, if they make a profit, taxing them. But let's just look at what's going on in the social insurance sector: There the farmers will be reduced, and the contributions will be greatly increased. There the profession of farmers is greatly reduced like no other in this society. I don't think you can just look at that as a Minister of Agriculture. Let's look at what the Austrian Chamber of Agriculture says about your horror package – I don't want to go into detail now, but if you just look at these gains of dedication and so on – I think, Mr. Federal Minister, you finally have a proof that even your own adversaries are going against you massively. I ask you to: When we finally think about it, we make a modern agricultural policy, we create conditions that the farmer can produce and the population can afford the products! That's not what we're for, and that's it.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e10832	Next speaker: Mrs Binder-Maier. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e10854	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We also have a clear commitment and appreciation for the farmers in Austria. However, we believe that, above all, the support system must be done justly and with an eye. This is necessary, Mr Huber, so that the survival of the farmers we are both talking about is guaranteed. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Huber: on expropriations!]] Back to the agenda: The amendment to the Market Regulation Act will include the processing aid for dried fodder in the amount of the aid so far in the single farm premium, which is new, for farmers whose feed has been dried and dried in other EU Member States. This EU law, ladies and gentlemen, also applies to farmers in neighbouring countries producing dried fodder on Austrian soils. The effort for this is € 550 000 a year. The Committee on Agriculture and Forestry also discussed the revision of the Market Regulation Act in the context of the necessary adjustment in the ongoing settlement of farm premiums. The free transmission of data from the soil estimate, which is needed for the ongoing updating of the mountain farm disaster, has already been agreed in the budget accompanying law and is now enshrined by the innovation law. For the Internet application of the agricultural market Austria it was necessary to make known certain usage provisions. This concerns, above all, the electronic use of the cattle database. With the amendment to the Market Regulation Act, EU funds amounting to €6 million are paid out to Austrian dairy farmers under the title Market Disorder Measures. While we agree to the payment of milk quotas, a benefit to those dairy farmers who have previously stabilised the system with respect to the supply quotas, as suggested by our agricultural spokesman Kurt Gaßner, has unfortunately been rejected by the coalition partner. A question to you, Mr Federal Minister: They promised us in the committee to send us the study on bee death. We are waiting for Mr Schönpass to ask for this. But overall we will agree to this revision.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e10896	Next speaker: Mr Linder. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e10918	Mr President. Minister! How seriously the ÖVP takes the agricultural issues, one sees that the Federal President is not here, that the Lower Austrian agricultural chamber president is not here, but I think one knows or feels how seriously the issue of agriculture is taken by these Members, by the farmers' representatives. [[Interference of Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich]] Mr Eßl, if you criticize and say to our colleagues Doppler, you do not know what he is talking about, I believe, this is the next example, which shows how superlative you are on the subject, because the Market Transfer Act also deals with the abandonment of milk quotas, the expiry of quotas, which reduces the ownership of farmers and, above all, that is much, much more saddened to me, which makes the farmers in remote areas the milk guarantee, the delivery guarantee. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Doppler]] [[Congratulations and Bravorufe at the FPÖ]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Eßl]] And that should make us think! Farmers who produce milk under the most difficult conditions, under the most difficult conditions that milk can still deliver to the dairy industry today, will in future, after 31. March 2015, no longer have a chance to sell their milk. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I believe, Mr President, that this shows how superlative you are in relation to these areas, because, so far, the milk quota has also been a purchase guarantee, and the farmers who have been living with the milk money will not have a chance in the future. Today, large dairies are trying to get large dairy companies in the central area in order to get milk out of the central area, and the mountain areas have to make an effort today and have no chance to get a delivery contract for the future after 2015. When we recall that it is always stressed how important the remote mountain area is that the farmers be kept in this area to maintain the landscape and, on the other hand, to supply high-quality milk, we must say, it is embarrassing how superficially it deals with this issue from the alleged farmers' representatives. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Street@item incidence access is by owner only]] [[Abg. Eßl: Which law do you refer to?]] Mr. Minister! If we are serious, if you are serious about keeping and supporting the farmers in this area, you will ensure that these farmers also after 31. March 2015 has the guarantee that they can deliver the milk at the same conditions as the farmers from the central area! Then something really has been done for rural areas.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e11027	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Pirklhuber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e11048	We voted against this amendment and amendment of the Market Regulation Act, the Greens, quite skeptical in the Committee. We shall vote in favour of this amendment, on the basis of two or three elements of hope. [[President Dr. Graf takes over the chairmanship.]] A useful step is the free transfer of data between the Ministry of Finance and Agriculture, et cetera. These things should be free, and this is an administrative simplification, which makes sense from my point of view. What Mr Eßl said about digital recording is interesting. This is why, Mr Eßl, this advance is: We agree with the expectation that in the design, especially with regard to the problems of digital recording – you have referred to it, not only with the almens, please – nails will finally be made with heads and the farmers will not be pushed with senseless shocks and with indifference. If a farmer mowing grass on an area, from it produces silo balls – everyone knows these roundballs – there these silo balls are stored on this surface, which is normal, because the meadow is possibly five kilometers away from the yard, which wraps the ones there, stores them on that surface, then the farmer currently has to digitize this area. He has to go to the Chamber of Agriculture, to his Chamber of District Farmers and say: Please take the area out of my mind, because if the AMA comes, I may be able to fall over all the funding! That's what it looks like right now! So there is a shock, an agricultural bureaucracy that is inconceivable and has the enormous impact. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] And therefore the advance to you: If you are willing to implement amendments here, Minister, you have our support, if not, we will continue to work consistently to ensure that this is not possible in this form. Now on some of the basic things that colleagues have also mentioned, namely on agricultural policy 2014 to 2020. I do not understand why the German Farmers' Federation argues with all its force against ecologisation in Europe. You, Minister of State, as well! I expect you, as an Austrian Minister for Agriculture, to give offensive support to Commissioner Ciolos, saying: Yes, we need an ecologisation in Europe, yes, we want it, and we also want to secure the funding for ecologisation in Europe! Rural development must therefore not be reduced at European level, but expanded. That's the challenge. To date, I have been waiting for this consistent approach that: They finally get up and say that Austrian agriculture is not only important, good and beautiful here in Parliament and that farmers do all they can, but that you are also willing and able to stand up for it in Europe and finally go into the offensive. I miss this clarity among the colleagues of the EIA, and I must say that. It is really incomprehensible why the Federal President of the Federal Republic of Germany no longer presents himself with an agricultural debate at all. The colleague Grillitsch is here, but he is no longer the chief, and he is no longer the chairman. Next point: Protein feed. We need self-sufficiency, a step in self-sufficiency and better supply of non-genotechnic protein feed. At least 15 per cent of Europe's land is a target that we demand from the Greens. There is also a need for clear confessions. On behalf of Mr Linder, as regards dairy farmers: I'm totally right, this danger you're describing is threatening. It is therefore all the more important that there are guidelines, framework conditions for the whole dairy sector. It is not enough to provide for instruments only for the crisis situation of the market. On this occasion I would like to renew my appeal to the agricultural speakers of the political groups. I would recommend and ask you to go to a political group meeting before the next plenary session, in which we jointly discuss what common elements we can find for agricultural reform, because the concerns are too important to replace them only in the party-political smack here in the house. It is, I think, correct and necessary to examine once: Are there common positions? If so, we should also actively represent them here as Parliament. In conclusion: Mr Federal Minister, if you want to shorten agricultural research and merge away the Federal Institute for Mining Questions, you do not understand all of Europe. 71 percent of our federal territory are mountain areas. There is hardly any research facilities for these specific areas across Europe. They want to destroy this institution. To that end, we say No, and we will do everything we can to follow all the steps consistently in order to stop this nonsense, I say here in all clarity. It is a shame if an Austrian Minister of Agriculture wants to merge away a parade institute of Austrian agricultural research. We can't do that! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e11125	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Nikolaus Berlakovich reported. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e11149	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! This amendment to the Market Regulation Act is under the title of debureaucratisation. It contains important things that previous speakers have already mentioned. Firstly, the Internet applications of the AMA, the agricultural market Austria, are about the transmission of the data, which is intended to bring more efficiency and debureaucratisation, for example in the cattle database. Or: Today, it is possible for the first time that the multiple application, the request made by farmers to trigger EU premiums, can be made online. A performance of the AMA, which is very important, is made possible by this law and will simplify bureaucracy. The next point: The data of the soil estimate are particularly important in order to support with the mountain farm disaster the miners you have conjured, which are important to us, so that we can update the mountain farm disaster. Another point: There is legal clearance through the Market Regulation Transfer Act, so that some regulations can be summarized and repealed in it. You see, we take debureaucratisation seriously and try to do it wherever it is possible, without having a quality loss in the matter. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: A very weak applause!]] –I am pleased that there are followers of debureaucratisation. I thought that was a general concern here. But now to the political things. First point: Market organization. The market regulation is also important after 2014. We are discussing them in the context of the reform of the common agricultural policy. There are many countries in the European Union that say: Away, we don't need a market order, completely free market. It is intended to be produced where it is favourable, i.e. in favours, not in the mountain area, but in other regions, and the food is to be purchased worldwide where the price is low. Austria has never represented this position. Our position is that we want to produce food everywhere in Austria, in the flat country and also in the mountain regions, that is, that the farmers not only care for the landscape there, but also produce high-quality food. “Regular region of Austria” is spoken literally. We have a high food standard here and more abroad. I was recently in the Arab Emirates at the largest food fair in the Middle East, where Austrian companies have also presented themselves and where we – which is increasing – sell food and processing products. Therefore, we are committed to the fact that there are market regulation instruments also in the new period of the common agricultural policy, that if there are structural surpluses, for example in the milk sector, one can help so that one can intervene. - That's the first point. The second point: Milk quota. Of course, Austria is working on successors for the milk quota. Already in 2007/2008, Europe has agreed that the milk quota will expire. Therefore, our aim is to achieve the objective of the Austrian agricultural policy, that we continue to ensure quantity management in the milk sector in Europe, so that dairy farmers can exist in more difficult situations as well as in the mountain area. The strategy is clear. We have a high-level working group at the European level, where we find what we have in Austria: Dairy farms, which are cooperatively structured and owned by farmers, do not make stock companies that do their own and fire – if the dairy farmer is not satisfied, then he does not have to deliver – but cooperatives, who are in the hands of farmers, who are supposed to guarantee that milk is delivered not only from a region next to the dairy, but also from a remote region, that the farmers there have a perspective. That is what we want, and you, honourable Member, know that. We want this, and that is what we are talking about designing the contracts, which are intended to guarantee that dairy farmers will also have a chance in the future. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: They guarantee that! But no ecologization!]] The next point: Member of the European Parliament, when you speak of modern agricultural policy: That is exactly what we are practicing, a modern agricultural policy. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Hardly a country still has a agriculturally structured agriculture like Austria. Look at the structures in Europe! There are far larger farms there and also mass animal husbandry, not in Austria. We want to maintain this rural agriculture, which produces sustainable food, in the future, so that people in Austria can also afford high-quality foods. That's our goal. At the same time, the landscape is to be maintained and maintained not only in the alpine region, but also in Austria as a whole, because this is the strongest trump for tourism. People also come to Austria because the landscape is unique. Right now in the ski season, we're going to experience it again. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But also the energy sector is gaining in importance. Mr Pirklhuber, you are here and you are saying that we should stop the political smacks, we should be mindful, and you are the first to start with them. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: I said this to my colleagues, not to you! That's impossible what you're presenting here!]] How can you seriously claim that the MEPs of the EIA or I am against the ecologicalisation of agriculture? I reject the strict! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: But not only energetic!]] I strongly reject this, because I support Ciolos in his efforts to ecologize agriculture throughout Europe, as we have been doing in Austria for 20 years. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: I haven't heard that publicly yet!]] We are going on an ecologically sustainable path in agriculture, whose effect is that we are bioworld champions. No state on Earth has as much organic farming as we do. And just as we do in Austria, so we want it to happen throughout Europe. So take note of this, then we can put the political sham caps in place. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Then do something for it! Don't just talk!]] That, while I turn to the agricultural policy in Europe, is the multiplying of bureaucracy. There I am against the Commissioner for Agriculture, because what he intends to do is to ecologize – that is positive – but with a bureaucracy that no one can afford. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: He doesn't want that!]] You know that very well. It's a shame you see this so wrong. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Do you know the Commission's paper? You don't know it! That's incredible!]] This also applies to the Bundesanstalt. It's not about destroying the federal institutions, it's about creating new structures. We have three federal institutions, and the aim is to have more efficiency, not to destroy something, but to build new structures that are more powerful. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: More efficiency? That's ridiculous!]] You know we have to save, and it's very nice to sit down and say: Not there, not there, not there, but make a suggestion where you can save. We'll do that. I have put in place a 100 million euro structural reform package, where we are saving in the agricultural bureaucracy, in the agricultural administration. That is what citizens expect. In any case, this is the more difficult work, because it is easier to remove financial resources somewhere than to create new structures – and that is what we do. In conclusion: Ladies and gentlemen, as you have discussed the study on bee problems, you have discussed the AGES MELISSA study: As soon as the results are available, we will present them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e11326	The next speaker was Mr Schopf. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e11347	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! This law will include the so-called processing aid for dried fodder in the single farm premium from the 2012 application year – and that is important and correct. Ladies and gentlemen! Europe is growing together, and I think it is important that Europe also grows together in terms of agriculture and farmers. In the future, this question will be of the utmost importance for many things. In the meantime, there are many farmers who process their residence, their farm that has their agriculture in Austria, but abroad, especially in the border regions, agricultural land and therefore also produce dried fodder abroad. However, there are not only Austrian farmers who work abroad but also, of course, foreign farmers who produce the headquarters of their agriculture, their farm abroad, but also in Austria. In the border regions in particular, there are a number of foreign farmers producing agricultural products and thus dried fodder in Austria. Ladies and gentlemen! This aid for dried fodder should be about the amount of the processing aid so far. In concrete terms – and this has already been said by some here – this group will receive an amount of approximately €550 000 from the European Union in the form of this premium in the future. I think that's a real and good step. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e11380	As the last speaker on this item on the agenda, Mr Sacher is speaking on behalf of the European Parliament. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e11402	Mr President. Estimated Minister of State! High house! Today's decision on this feed promotion is EUR 550 000. These are additional funds that flow into agriculture, and it is therefore appropriate to deal briefly with the income situation in the agricultural sector, which is a concern to all of us, of course also to us social democrats. Farmers can be pleased that in 2011 they had a 12.2 percent increase in income, an increase that is significantly above the Austrian average was clearly above what the employees in Austria have in terms of income growth. [[Intrusions of the Abg. Prince.]] We are pleased with the rural population, but we must also say that much of the agricultural income still comes from public funding, and we social democrats are constantly calling for a fairer distribution of public funding, because it is still the case that those who have better incomes also receive higher funding, and that those who have lower incomes, namely small farms, receive less resources. This is, in our opinion, very unfair, and it is proof that some things are going wrong and therefore have to be better designed. We must not make a policy for the agricultural industry and for large farms, but must try to support, so to speak, the broad farming and rural areas. Ladies and gentlemen! It is true that without employment in the private sector, there would no longer be many rural existences that many farmers would have to lock. One third of agricultural income comes from employment in farms of the environment. We therefore have a broad support for rural areas – beyond the area of farmers – which is a very important concern. As far as secondary employment is concerned, I should like to refer to the ORF report yesterday on a very recent occasion, and I hope that many have seen it. It is precisely because the farmers in this region – the Allentsteig area – depend on employment also outside their farms that I find this inconvenient procedure and the argument, which is mainly operated by the ÖVP side, to be completely inappropriate! For many decades there has been excellent cooperation, excellent cooperation between the German army and peasantry. Therefore: This good cooperation, from which both have benefited, is at stake now, through a political campaign, that is to say, to reject the most decisive! I am also saying this as a member of the forest district. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] It is totally counterproductive, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP and of the ÖAAB, also of the public service union, to act in such a partisan way. [[New calls to the ÖVP.]] If it is the case, as was said yesterday in this report, that the municipality of Allensteig dies, then this is probably due to an incompetent national, regional or local policy, but certainly not to Minister Darabos and the German army, which is a great employer and the largest investor in this region. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e11480	Mr Dr. Stummvoll, Member of the Commission. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, 1 minute speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e11512	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I was not on the speaker's list myself, but, dear Ewald Sacher, you have challenged me now; we are both mandates of the forest district. What I have always turned to, ladies and gentlemen, is that there is a concept that is never put on the table, but where all those involved – the military – are down from the head of general staff, the farmers, the economy, the works council, the union – are opposed. The only thing we want – I have just said this to Minister Darabos – is that he puts the cards on the table and says what he really wants, and then there is peace immediately. But: If people in this region – Mr Sacher, you know – are afraid of their job when people are concerned about their livelihood, then politics has to stand. [[Call the ÖVP:Genau!]] That is our view.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e11550	No one is reporting on this. I therefore conclude the debate. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 1616 of the supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an appropriate sign. – That too is the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[13:18:10]] 5. Point Report by the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry on Amendment No 1793/A(E) by Dr Wolfgang Spadiut, colleagues on compulsory fertility tests of male breeding animals before sale (1655d.b.) 6. Point Report by the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry on Amendment No 1810/A(E) by Mr Gerhard Huber, colleagues on the complete reform of the AMA and the resolution of the agricultural market Austria Marketing GesmbH “AMA marketing” (1656, e.g.) 7. Point Report by the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry on Amendment No 1617/A(E) by Mr Gerhard Huber, Members and colleagues, on the suspension of the decommissioning premium/Brachland aid (1569d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e11631	We now come to points 5 to 7 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. I call Mr Spadiut. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e11660	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to say first of all that I did not make this request in order to enable my fellow veterinarians to have a merit, but that is because farmers have asked me to accept this problem and to provide a solution there. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oils.]] I am of the opinion, Mr Oellinger, that every citizen has a right that, when he asks us to do so, we should, of course, deal with his problems – no matter how important it may appear to us at times. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Now to the request itself: This request concerns the sale of male breeding animals without having previously been studied for fertility. Then it often turns out after weeks or months – you have no idea, Mr. Cot! – that the animal is infertile. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Parent]] [[OBJECTIVES]] Of course, it is possible for the buyer to return the animal with the replacement of the purchase price, but the financial damages incurred will not be reimbursed to him. The farmers therefore rightly demand that the animals be examined for fertility prior to sale, which is not a witchcraft and can be carried out with little financial effort. Unfortunately, they encounter deaf ears in the associations, which is why the Minister's request calls for talks to be held in order to find a solution. The request was rejected in the Committee by all parties, although sometimes with very strange reasons. Mr Prehauser, for example, was of the opinion that I only make the request for a commitment to my fellow veterinarians, not knowing that these investigations are carried out by the ingathering bodies, which are mostly owned by the agricultural chambers, and have nothing to do with them at all. Furthermore, he could not determine which animals it is to be. Of course, it applies to male breeding animals of all agricultural animals, because a breeding animal that is not fertile is not a breeding animal but at most a slaughter animal. I therefore mention mainly the cattle, because it is the most common and the most economic damage. Mr Gaßner put this request in jeopardy anyway, saying that he did not know whether to investigate the seller or the animal for fertility. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Nice pass.]] Ladies and gentlemen, this shows once again how difficult it is to discuss such a request with someone who has no idea of agriculture and animal farming at all. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The ÖVP is far too unimportant and too little important for this problem at all. They believe that the farmers themselves should make up for each other. You from the ÖVP show again clearly that you have taken another step away from being representatives of the farmers. Mr Linder is of the opinion that he is against bureaucracy that the bureaucratic effort is far too high. He seems to believe that these fertility tests are done with the typewriter. But it's not, they're done with the microscope, and the bureaucratic effort. is limited to one sentence, namely: The animal is suitable for breeding, or it is not suitable for breeding. I take note of the rejection of this request, of course, but I hope that the Minister will hold discussions on his own initiative to solve this problem. On the other hand, the farmers are forced to go through a process which I absolutely wanted to prevent with this request.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e11766	Next speaker: Mr Eßl. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e11788	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! I should like to add two sentences to the previous item on the agenda. Mr Linder and Mr Doppler, what you have formulated, really has nothing to do with the discussed law, but you have dealt with the period after 2015. In the law it says literally: As a federal law, it remains in force until the 31st century. On 3 March 2015, the Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry (Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry) adopted the Regulation on the allocation of reference quantities. [[Abg. Dr. Hübner: Wrong item on the agenda!]] So, there is no superiority or superficiality of the peasantry, but we have been dealing with the forthcoming change in the law. The issues raised by you will be discussed in depth at a later stage. [[Abg. Grosz: On the matter!]] The topic of milk: Of course, the Farmers' Federation also believes that after 2015 all under equal conditions
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e11831	Mr President, may I ask you to say at least one introductory sentence on the matter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e11849	At the previous item on the agenda, the Members of the Liberals spoke exclusively on a subject which is not on the agenda, so I take the liberty to say a few sentences out of the way, but which are closely linked to agriculture. Back to “Milch”, my colleagues: Of course, we also believe that after 2015, everyone should be able to deliver on equal terms. The peasantry has a model, strong cooperatives, and how different it is how such groups act that are supported by different others, shows the current situation. [[Abg. Grosz: Mr Colleague, on the matter!]] Current payout price of Freie Milch AG: 29.2 cents – if that pleases you. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Singer.]] On the request of Mr Spadiut: I believe that this proposal is overwhelming. [[Abg. Markowitz: A good request!]] There is a guarantee obligation which goes far beyond the quality of sperm referred to in the motion for a resolution and which cannot be covered in this way by individual investigations. I also believe that there would also be higher costs – for distance, for time needs – probably a few hundred euros that would be additional costs. Neither the breeders nor the breeding organizations have ever been wished to do something. There are rarely any complaints in general, and they are almost exclusively regulated by mutual agreement between the seller and the buyer. The next request concerning AMA, tabled by Mr Huber: One may stand to the AMA as one wants, but we need this facility; even if some farmers do not always find praise for it. But I don't think anyone could imagine that at the District Headquarters or at the Financial Office, the handling of all events related to the EU would be better than it is now. The criticism points should, of course, be taken seriously, because improvements are always possible. However, total reforms are not appropriate in this context, I believe. For example, I would like to see practical cooperation within the meaning of farmers by working together with the agricultural market in Austria to draw up proposals on how we could change things in Brussels. We should work together intensively. The function as But I have no doubt about the point of payment. As far as AMA Marketing is concerned, I believe that it is not just a good job, but a very good one. And if Mr Huber wants to abolish this, he's, I think, on the wrong path. The products are known, I only call the AMA seal, which is recognized at a very high percentage. 98 percent of the population know it, and on a spontaneous request, which seal of quality on food, 51 percent say they know the AMA seal. I would also like to say a few words about the third request to abolish the decommissioning premium. Mr Huber, this premium has been abolished by the Health Check for a number of years now. What we could discuss is the 7 percent of the eligible area according to the regional model of environmental priority areas. If the land is to be decommissioned, then of course we are against it. We, the Federal Farmers' Association and the ÖVP, want a comprehensive management, we want a productive agriculture, and of course we want there to be farmers who can do this in the future. They are able to do so, but they need the corresponding reward.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e11917	Next speaker: Mrs Schönpass. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e11938	Mr President. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen in the gallery! I refer to item 6 of the Committee's report on the full reform of the AMA, and I should like to remind you briefly of the AMA's tasks. The AMA shall implement EU measures such as the management of support measures, milk quota management, import and export licences and marketing interventions. AMA acts as a paying agency for the implementation of EU measures, as my colleague Eßl has already said. In addition, the AMA will focus on market and price reporting and the collection of the agricultural marketing contribution. AMA Marketing GmbH is responsible for promoting agricultural marketing and measures to promote quality, for the AMA seal. In the present application, the BZÖ calls for the complete reform of the AMA and the replacement-free resolution of AMA Marketing GmbH. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Huber.]] It also calls for the marketing of farmers to be reduced by half and the marketing of an agency to be transferred. It is to be doubted, Mr Huber, that the call for marketing activities can reduce costs by 50 percent. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Huber.]] The We therefore believe that reducing resources would lead to a reduction in activities. By the way, individual advertising activities are already being advertised by AMA Marketing GmbH. A mandate of an agency with all marketing activities would also mean that the Court of Auditors would be unable to control the use of funds. The SPÖ therefore rejects this request with the reference to the lack of meaningful privatisation in this area. Mr Minister, I would like to remind you of the study on bee death and ask that, as soon as it has arrived with you, it be brought to our attention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e11995	Next speaker: Mr Linder. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e12017	Mr President. Minister! Dear Members! Dear colleagues! Ladies and gentlemen! Once again, Mr Eßl, I cannot help you because: If we in the House are not able to think out over the year 2015, then who? [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I think the Minister has given us the right to say that it will be high time. And he also agrees that we must think and work in this direction. I'm very glad. Dear colleague Spadiut, yes, everything that today concerns investigations, testimonies – he is no longer there, in his own request – and so on means extra effort. I believe that the issue of the fertility of paternal animals is precisely regulated in the law. We should not try to regulate everything by law, but also leave responsibility to farmers, leaving responsibility with the breeders. For, on the one hand, to abolish bureaucracy and, on the other hand, to do more and more work with new applications, I do not think it makes sense. On the topic “Reform of the Agricultural Market in Austria” or “Absition of AMA Marketing”, I believe that AMA Marketing really needs a reform. I do not believe that a complete abolition would be necessary, but a reform is absolutely necessary. Maybe a little detail: Each farmer holding direct marketing shall report to the AMA on a quarterly basis. And when he kills five animals of a genus, five pigs, five sheep, five cattle, he has to make the explanation with four forms and then has 70 cents per animal, that is 3,50 € to pay. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make it clear to you, which means that the administrative burden is to make a statement for 3,50 €, to be processed in the AMA, to have pre-order issued. I think that there should be reforms in order to address de-bureaucratisation a further step, to substantially raise the minor limits and not to set up an entire administrative system because of 3,50 €. On the topic of AMA itself: We have to take major measures – and this has already been done today – especially in view of the demands made to the mountain farmers for sanctions, where I believe they have been taken out of the air. If you keep in mind how difficult it is today to determine exactly what problems it means to determine exactly how much feeding area there is on alpine areas with 50, 100 hectares, you also come to the view that this is a problem. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: That's right! Right!]] But a problem is also the following sanctions. If, today, a commercial undertaking has a tax check and the examiner agrees with the taxpayer how high the private part of a building is, it can assume that this finding will last until the next review and that it will not have any sanctions and no penalty payments for the time between them. In the AMA, however, the world looks different. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: That's right! Right!]] If you have an alm control today and the examiner determines an area of – house number – 50 hectares and you have the next test next year and he comes to the conviction that it is not 50 but 45 hectares, you still have to pay the fines for that one year. That's not all right! [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Reactive up to seven years!]] [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich shakes his head.]] Acting retroactively until 2007 or even for seven years back. That, I think, can't be it! We have to take measures, we have to suspend the penalty payments, because if there are farmers who have up to €30 000 in return, we are risking the existence of these farmers. It is not all right for black sheep to be protected, but it cannot be that for problems we have made with laws, the farmers come to the handcushion! That's why I'm asking you all to: If we take action, we will suspend these penalties and try to reform the entire area of feed and put it on new feet!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e12101	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Pirklhuber. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e12122	Ladies and gentlemen! The proposals that exist have some aspects that I share, but we will still not give our approval to the requests. But the words are in our sense as well, keyword: AMA and control and AMA as an institution in this country. I always say, The AMA is the state in the state. There is no transparency in this organization! Ladies and gentlemen, the Minister just shook his head when I said there were up to seven years of repayment. He says: No, no, no, I'm taking this headshake, that's negative, it's not like that. The funding period runs from 2007 to 2013, which is seven years. And there is no security for the farmers in Austria. In 2013, when the AMA comes back and measures, it can be – and Mr Linder has fully explained how this is practically the case – that the farmer has to pay retroactively, retroactively seven years of funding. This is not excluded because there is no right to public payment because there is no public sanction catalogue. You have to imagine this: not a publicly accessible Sanctions Catalogue! Anyone who parks wrong in the city of Vienna knows about how much it costs. There is a regulation to this end, and he can look for it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. New builder.]] For a farmer, for a farmer, it is impossible to understand it. There are not one or two examples for it, there are hundreds of examples. [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich: That's not true!]] - It's not right, okay. The Minister says that it is understandable to a farmer. I think it's a protocol. The Minister says that it is comprehensible for farmers in Austria to see how much reduction they have to expect if, for example, they have five siloballs on an area. I spoke to my German colleagues who have found a different solution. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] There the farmer is not affected and does not have to repay subsidies. I can send you the broadcast of the Chamber of Agriculture Oberösterreich if you do not know them, in the last “The Bauer”. For two pages it was precisely explained how important it is for farmers to re-digit these areas in time, even before the annual report in May. Many farmers are currently sitting in the district farmer's chambers and allow these very small areas to be digitized. That's incredible red tape. Let us remember, Commissioner Ciolos made it clear: This is not a European law, it is Austrian self-indebtedness! – You have the responsibility, Minister, and nobody else in this country! [[Congratulation with greens, FPÖ and BZÖ.]] Who makes the agricultural policy? – Not the Greens, not the FPÖ, not the BZÖ and unfortunately not the SPÖ. [[Abg. Hoefinger: Well, thank God!]] Mr Gaßner is right. That's what the peasantry's doing, and that's what you're doing! Now I'm with the funding you can cut. That's where you can cut short. You said at your last speech that I should make a proposal. I'll make a proposal. I'll read to you: As Minister of Public Relations and Information, you will spend € 315,000 on the Eco-Social Forum Europe, € 312 500 on the Eco-Social Forum Austria. For information only: Who's the boss there? – Landesrat Pernkopf from Lower Austria, my knowledge of the Federal Farm Office and my knowledge of Lower Austrian government member. This is the president of the Eco-Social Forum. Who are the Vice-Presidents? – Among other things, Advocate General Konrad, including the President of the Chamber of Agriculture Wlodkowski, Styrian colleague, as we know, and the Federal Farm Office. - That's how it looks! Forum Country Austria: Who's the president there? – Former Federal Farmer Director Dr. Sixtus Lanner. Excuse me, miss, who's improving me? – With the daughter of the Farmers' Federation, Forum Land, Dr. Appellation, current Federal Farmer's Director, responsible. How much do they get? – €292 500. Who are the supporters? – Raiffeisen Ware Austria, Mr Buchleitner. Who's back there? – Mr. Konrad, also supporter of the Forum Land. We remember: Forum Land has invited the Sarrazin. Wasn't that the Forum Land? – Yes, it was the Forum Land. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Eßl.]] Austrian Farmers' Federation: 290 000 €. There he sits! A party organization gets €290,000 from your ministry – that's coming. [[Abg. What about the greens? How much do the greens get?]] – The Austrian young farmers: 40,000 € – a farmer's organisation. SPÖ farmers: 42 500 €. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: So little?]] The ARGE Rural Space, Dr. Sixtus Lanner: 12 750 €. The Austrian Mining Association Via Campesina: 5 000 €. Now we are coming to the agricultural opposition in Parliament, to the political groups. BZÖ farmers: 4 250 €, freedom of farming: 4 250 €, green farmers: 4 250 €. - Everything in 2011. [[Call at the FPÖ:When?]] [[Abg. Eßl: Yes, because you don't do anything!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] - Yes, my colleague, that's right. There was a parliamentary question to this effect, and the Minister answered it in this way. So in total: The agricultural opposition in Austria is receiving 1.24 per cent from your public relations and information department – and that is quite legitimate – and the farmer's government is more than 90 per cent. This kind of justice, as you construct it, as you imagine it, we don't share. If you want to save where, then there, but not in agricultural research in Austria. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e12289	Next speaker: Mrs Hellerer. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e12311	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! I now come back to the requests we are dealing with today, and I would like to focus on Mr Huber's motion for a resolution 1810/A(E) which is aimed at the agricultural market in Austria. Mr Schönpass has already explained the tasks of Austria's agricultural market. Of course, the development of quality directives is still needed. It also mentioned the promotion of agricultural marketing and, of course, the entire management and settlement of the common agricultural policy. I am right to give Mr Pirklhuber, in so far as, of course, there is a need for practical management of controls and control activities on the part of the AMA and, of course, for further work to be done in this direction. We also insist that de-bureaucratisation in this area would be safe against farmers. We also know, however, that this is about public funds in the whole area of the AMA and that control is absolutely necessary. If it were not that it would be controlled accordingly, then it would certainly be the issue here in the House and it would be vehemently required a corresponding control. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The application also calls for ‘annual timely monitoring and administration in accordance with EU legislation’. – So it is, ladies and gentlemen! They have all emphasized before how intensively controlled it is. If you deal exactly with this, you know that the last payment of the Single Farm Premium on 21 January. In December 2011, 120,500 establishments applied for this and 1 percent of the farms were unable to pay at that time because an audit had not been completed. An earlier disbursement would not have been possible either because of EU legal requirements, since a requirement for funding states that establishments will be able to operate until 31. It is necessary to monitor December and then the test report can only be returned. That means: Test until the end of each test year and after that, the payment can only be made at the end of the year. These businesses will get their money at the end of April. It also calls for the resolution of the agricultural market Austria Marketing GesmbH and the outsourcing of tasks in private agencies. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Huber.]] Mr Huber, the AMA is legally obliged to operate agricultural marketing. She does this perfectly with the project AMA seal. People are well informed about the origin, quality and, of course, also about the freshness of the food. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Huber.]] We have already heard that there is a high level of awareness. We have an Austrian quality seal, which is state-recognised, notified and approved by the EU Commission Once you have been dealing with brand development, you know that it is necessary to know that it takes a lot of money, that it takes time for a brand to find real recognition on the market. [[Abg. Huber: The seal of goodness is...! We don't need AMA to do that!]] [[Abg. Huber: What do I need an AMA for?]] With the seal of quality, we have a quality seal in our hands, which is far more than one brand: It has great confidence among consumers and also provides guidance. There's a value behind that, and you just want to question it that way with your request. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Huber.]] I am not talking about the successful external trade balance, which is due to the marketing work. We already export more Austrian food than we import food from abroad. The successful work of AMA Marketing could certainly not be better or, above all, more economically successful. That's exactly what you know, Mr. Deputies. That is exactly what you know, and that is why I do not take this request seriously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e12393	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e12415	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! With regard to Mr Spadiut's request: It is true that, in the case of the processing of farmed cattle sales via a breeding association, there are guarantees which also apply. They should give the buyer a higher level of security. That's a serious issue. It is a question of ensuring that the buyer also has security – he is perfectly right – but that is secured by these provisions. Moreover, in the case of purely private processing of a purchase, the contracting parties are free to make additional civil agreements that go beyond the normal level of the responsibility of the ABGB. That is, the possibilities exist, and they are also applied. The breeding associations themselves are very interested in the fact that the breeding material is in order. By the way, I can point out that Austria is at the top of the world in cattle farming. The effect of this is that we sell very many breeding cattle – in the Russian market, but in particular to an increasing extent on the Turkish market. Excellent relations with very good prices for Austrian cattle farmers – this performance and this high standard we want to maintain in the future. As regards the AMA, it is generally to be said that it is essential that we have a paying agency that handles all EU payments. This makes the AMA a paying agency and this is also necessary in accordance with EU legislation. If she's not called AMA, she's called different, but we need such a paying agency. Second point: If one dissolves the agricultural market Austria Marketing GesmbH, as here is planned, then it is a March to believe that by doing so I know how much cost saving. We need such marketing activities. It makes sense, especially in the agricultural sector, to say that Austrian quality is presented to the consumer. It is necessary that AMA marketing activities are carried out. There are also social-partnership councils, a body. It's supposed to ensure transparency. Furthermore, the AMA marketing is subject to audit by the Court of Auditors, so that this is also secured. Above all, it is important that we strengthen marketing activities in order to make Austria not only national but also internationally known. Austria sells more food to Italy than we import from Italy. Austria sells more food to Switzerland than we import from Switzerland. This does not come from anywhere, but it is the result of the consistent development work of the agricultural sector, including food processing, industry and the consistent processing of foreign markets. We work together – the Ministry of Food with the Chamber of Commerce, with the Chamber of Agriculture and the AMA – to ensure that these markets are more marketed and processed now and, above all, in the future. This brings value added in the country. That's what we're standing for. Mr Pirklhuber, I must also address this: Yes, the farmer knows there are rules. Farmers apply for the premiums and also receive them if they comply with everything correctly. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: There is no exact Sanctions Catalogue!]] The farmer knows the sanctions mechanism. There are tolerances. Look at it, please! There are tolerances in the surface. He knows exactly when he exceeds certain tolerance limits, he has to pay back, then there are sanctions. The point is that no one here in the house wants a farmer to be asked for the cash register unjustly. [[call to the FPÖ.]] – That’s not true! But if individual farmers specify an area of 100 hectares as a feeding area, and in the on-the-spot check it turns out that all this is a windfall, then something is wrong! [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: That's not the point! It's about the hiccups!]] You mustn't wonder that people in the EU are coming and saying: We're questioning the system. – We do not allow and I do not allow the whole system to tip because individual farmers do such things. That is why I have and we all have an interest in keeping the system safe and credible. Look at the cases in practice! One cannot compare this with the commercial sector, because the farmer receives the premiums for years. So if it turns out that one, when he made it sloppy, has received premiums for years, then he has to pay them back – not because someone is evil, but because there is a commitment to society. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Then talk to the farmers outside!]] - Yes, talk to the farmers outside! Who likes to pay back? – It is clear that no one likes to do that. But if someone makes it right, he doesn't have to pay back either. We defend all those who make it right. If a person happens to be in such a situation, there is a procedure in which he can prove that he was rightly held responsible by the AMA or by the control. It's all being reworked. Don't pretend it's an authority pushing farmers! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber.]] You have just asked for less bureaucracy through eco-logisation, and then you come here and say that we should accept the EU's bureaucracy. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: What did I say?]] We don't. We want to reduce debureaucratisation and that to a reasonable degree, so that farmers can have the guarantee that they can properly retain the funds they receive, and that they do not have to worry that they need to be repaid.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e12514	The next speaker was Mrs Königsberger-Ludwig. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e12536	Mr President. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I too would like to deal with the proposal concerning the complete reform of the AMA. It has already been said a lot about the AMA's tasks today. It has also been criticized that the AMA may not all be quite positive. Minister! I think one should hear criticism too, one should also take criticism seriously. It is not negative to criticism, either, if you deal with criticism. There are also always things from the SPÖ that can be criticized at the AMA, such as thinking about meaningful support controls. In fact, it must also be in the spirit of the Minister that there are sensible controls on support. It must also be in the spirit of the Minister that there are transparent controls. I think it must also be in the sense of the farmers' representatives of the ÖVP and in the sense of the Minister that there is also advice and support for farmers from the AMA. You should also talk about it. Perhaps it would be good if we were to visit the AMA together once by the Committee on Agriculture, so that we could all take a precise picture of how we are working there. I think that's a good proposal, and it would be nice if he were accepted. [[Call the ÖVP: There we are!]] I would also like to refer briefly to a chapter addressed by Mr Höllerer and Mr Eßl, namely the AMA seal: Of course, the AMA seal is a quality seal known. Of course, the AMA seal is a seal of quality that customers rely on. Nevertheless, due to the diversity of the AMA seal, it is always difficult, and consumers cannot be sure that they actually buy the best quality. [[Abg. Hellererer: That's not true!]] [[Abg. Eßl: There are only two! Bio and AMA!]] For example, I would just like to remind you of the lack of genetic engineering labelling. Although cultivation is prohibited, at the moment it is not the case that contaminated feed must be identified by genetic engineering. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Huber.]] You can also talk about it. I am of the opinion, as do my colleagues from SPÖ, that a uniform, state-certified mark should actually be introduced. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Eßl.]] [[Abg. Hellererer: That's exactly what we have!]] That must also be in the spirit of the Minister. This must also be in the sense of the farmers' representatives of the ÖVP, because it always means how important consumers are throughout the chain. This is even so far that the Minister has said in a quote that the consumer will decide with the handle to the shelf on the future of Austrian agriculture. That is why we are always in favour of resumption of the talks on a uniform, state-certified quality mark. This must simply be in the sense of consumers and also in the sense of farmers – also from the Ministry.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e12621	Mr Pirklhuber referred to an actual correction. I would remind you of the relevant provisions of the Rules of Procedure. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e12645	Mr President. In his speech, the Federal Minister said that I, Pirklhuber, had voted in favour of EU agricultural bureaucracy. I'm actually correcting: First of all, I have said that Commissioner Cioloş has made it clear that the EU cannot be held responsible for all bureaucratic shocks, but that the Member States themselves have caused this – to be read in “blick into the country” – and second, that the EU Commission proposal for agricultural reform after 2014 is also a part of the Commission’s proposals for less bureaucracy. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e12673	Next speaker: Mr Huber. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e12700	Federal Minister! Mr President. High house! The history of the AMA is a clear story. The AMA was founded because we had a dairy fund and a cereals farm fund, and so that we could continue to employ these officials, we founded the AMA. Of course, the AMA is doing tasks today, which are very important. In the marketing sector, however, the AMA is compulsorily levying € 18 million of marketing contributions from farmers each year. How much is spent on marketing? – Today we know that a maximum of one third is spent on marketing, the rest remains in the system, in the administration. If you praise the AMA seal, which is quite useful, then we need to talk about whether we do not make the AMA seal so that we really mark genetic engineering freedom. [[Abg. Eßl: AMA-Biozegel! That's it!]] But why can't we do the AMA seal in the agricultural chamber or in the ministry? Why does an AMA need to do that? [[Abg. Hellererer: Because the AMA has tasks!]] I think that the AMA must be reformed, everyone knows. The problem we have today in the AMA lies in every sector. The AMA works socially. It is purely dominated by the ÖVP – pure. [[Call the FPÖ:Grillich knows that!]] But now we have the opportunity: The managing director, who has been in office for 15 years, is now retired. You will be allowed to question the architecture of this AMA. The AMA already employs agencies today. Any advertising that was good did not make the AMA in-house, but it was made by agencies. It will be possible to demand that the AMA make the best possible marketing with its compulsory contributions. But you have to reform the AMA. The Court of Auditors cannot control all accounts because AMA Marketing is a distributed daughter who does not audit the Court of Auditors. [[Abg. Schönpass: That's not true!]] These are things that need to be questioned immediately. The personnel policy of our Minister of State is really excellent. Now we learn that innumerable officials from the ministry should return to the AMA. I wonder what a staff policy it is. Let's look at the meeting! I don't want to say now that she's being led dictatorically by the ÖVP, but she's certainly dominated by her. We would have to be able to check the handling of all the advertising money. No matter when I request, every time the Federal Minister says he has no influence, it's a distributed company. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Eßl.]] If the 100-million package is put together again, you already have to know that the AMA has twenty branches. Each division has its own CEO, its own manager – all ÖVP-dominated. The social partners fail to do so. [[Abg. Eßl: For example?]] If we don't go here and say, Yes, we are ready, we are reforming the AMA!, then we are making very bad policy. Again: All the farmers are really massively ate on the AMA. The AMA controls us today to an extent that is not possible in any other EU country. I think that's where we have to take steps. If you can't even talk about reforming the AMA today, it's really sad. You said today how great the AMA works, we export more than we import. The fact is: Thanks to this ÖVP government and this EDP agricultural policy, we are no longer self-evident today. We need to import food. If you don't believe it, look at the numbers! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] As you falsify the statistics: We import 2 million slaughter pigs annually, which we slaughter in Austria and then export to Italy – and then the ach so good AMA has performed a miracle because we have exports. Please, you have to be careful and stay on the floor with your legs. Austria is an import country today, the consumer can no longer afford daily life, and we only make politics for corporations and for the civil service, for the black civil service within the AMA. The Federal Minister is now reuniting a lot of officials into the AMA. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Eßl.]] Please, the complaints about the agricultural market in Austria are enormous and come not only from farmers but also from the AMA internal. Nobody says today that the AMA is an efficient service company. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Eßl.]] No one says that! For this reason, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e12844	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e12899	Next speaker: Mr Doppler. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e12923	Mr President. Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Eßl, the difference between us and you is of course that we operate agricultural policy beyond 2015 and perhaps you only until 2015. That's the difference. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, I come to item 7: Decommissioning premium/Brachland support. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Eßl.]] – Listen, maybe you'll learn something for the bees; you won't be hurt. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, what you have to consider in this case is that there are no bees without flowers and no bees. If there are less and less wild meadows, bees will find no food. – Only so far that you can follow to the Brachland promotion. Intensively managed fields, as far as the eye is concerned – often to see, ladies and gentlemen, in some regions of Germany. Honey bees, but also wild bees find less and less food in these vast landscapes. Hundreds of thousands of bees perish every winter, most of which die from the so-called Varroamilbe. Why this milbe has such a light game is, ladies and gentlemen, quite easy to explain: Flower shortage. And this lack of flowers weakens bees, you lack food, such as nectar and pollen. [[Abg. Eßl: Mr President, agenda!]] And this cause, Mr Eßl, is partly due to EU agricultural policy. [[Abg. Eßl: That means you're for the promotion of the break?]] For years, the EU has been promoting monocultures in fields, in 2007 Brussels abolished the set-aside premium, and in Germany alone, 400 000 hectares of flowering area were lost and therefore habitat for bees. This should also be borne in mind, Mr Eßl. In our opinion, it would be better to calm down the decommissioning premium. Thus, if you need it as a regular, it would still be there. [[Call of the Abg. Grosz towards the Abg. Eßl.]] – Mr Grosz, perhaps you listen too, because if you get a bee, it is very dangerous! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grosz.]] All that's gone is gone, ladies and gentlemen! We'd only owe it to the bees. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e13008	The next speaker was Mr Mayer. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e13029	Mr President. Estimated Minister of State! Ladies and gentlemen! Today we are dealing with three requests that will not receive our approval. Firstly, it is about the resolution of AMA Marketing, which, as I think, was very successful, only with the placement of the AMA seal, which is looking for the same in Europe. For me, this desire for resolution is incomprehensible. Secondly, we are dealing with the resolution of the decommissioning obligation – this request has actually overtaken itself. It would be far more important to discuss new set-aside in the common agricultural policy from 2014, where we know exactly – Mr Pirklhuber has also mentioned this – that we have tasks to fulfil, such as closing the protein gap in Europe or providing renewable energy areas. The third request concerns the mandatory fertility test for male breeding animals. Dr. Spadiut complained that there had been great rejection or lack of interest from the associations and ingathering stations in connection with his proposal. I would like to point out that I believe that this is already very well regulated. I can even report as a functionary of a collection station – by the way the most successful station in Austria, namely in Hohenzell, Ried District – that in Austria about 60 bulls are bought by the collection stations, and there are very, very few complaints. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: What?]] Especially the detailed guarantee provisions, when a bull is purchased at auction, guarantee that there are few disputes there. [[Abg. Grosz: What do you do privately then?]] There are intensive quarantine regulations, comprehensible investigations, and it is not only the sperm quality that makes up the quality of a bull, but it is also very crucial to jump joy. [[Abg. Mr Grosz: Mr Colleague, what does a staff member of a collection station do?]] And if you know how sperm is produced, that the breeding animal has to ride on a phantom, then you can understand that one or the other sometimes refuses. [[General hustle and bustle.]] All in all, I would like to maintain that our breeding organizations and ingathering stations do excellent work. We have produced top animals in the past, known names that you certainly know all, rumba, streller and now will, the new sales beater. These top animals are in demand internationally, and there is value added for agriculture, because our breeding associations and collection stations are in the hands of farmers, and I believe that this is certainly a future model. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e13112	As the last speaker on this item on the agenda, Mr Magistrate. Gäßner to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e13133	Mr President. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would like to welcome the main school of Schwerberg, which is listening to us now, and I can tell you that we are not always talking about the breeding animals. There are also important issues in this House. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Grosz: Are you also a functional of a collection station?]] I would like to congratulate the main school of Schwerberg on the title “Innovative School” which the Federal Minister has given her. [[General condolences.]] Mr. Committee President, Mr. President of the Federal Farmers' Federation, you have come at the right time. I urge you to put the issue of AMA on the agenda at the next meeting of the Committee on Agriculture, because it is so stupid that it is time to really have facts here. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Huber.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: And also a theme insemination station!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, there have also been some who have again complained of the bad situation of agriculture and so on and so on. Let me begin by bringing a quote from the “Blick into the Land” newspaper, where the Federal President of Germany and Europe, Gerd Sonnleitner, was interviewed. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Jakob Auer.]] Farmers' association president is called that there, not “farmer Federal President”. So your chief in Europe. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Jakob Auer.]] Yes, of course he is. So Gerd Sonnleitner has said – and that has already surprised me, or I support it – that he pleads for more honesty in agricultural promotions, he calls their redistributions into disadvantaged areas a fair act, and he generally advises agriculture to pay less on premiums. – I believe that this is an approach that we should all really represent together. He also said funny things, such as: The question was: “What is paradisiac about Austria’s agriculture?” and he meant: the legislation. He says here that the farmers in their size – he has a 100 hectar operation – almost do not pay any taxes in Austria, and that is what he calls “paradisaic”. So it is not so bad for farmers in Austria, but there are enough problems, ladies and gentlemen, with whom we should deal. Mr. Federal Minister, you have announced it at a press conference in Berlin and now it is done – it is not yet done, it is only when it is decided – it is now included in this consolidation package that you want to resolve the Bundesanstalt für Miningnfragen or want to interact with the Bundesanstalt für Agrowirtschaft. Mr Federal Minister, if we take seriously the problems that exist in the countryside in the mountain regions of the farmers in the less-favoured areas, then we cannot do so. Being serious, an institute, a scientific institute that is recognized throughout Europe, which is in demand internationally, simply dissolve and join somewhere. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the Greens.]] This cannot be done if we take these problems seriously. I really have the suspicion after that every two years, I'd almost say, come back: Time and again, the Ministry of Agriculture – and who is still behind it – begins to talk about whether the Mining Institute is still needed, and you should include it. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Where does he want to save 400 000 €?]] The savings are zero – but we give up a very important research institute! We need this urgently, and the Republic of Austria, I believe, cannot afford to do so. I really ask you to reconsider this. We will have an opportunity to talk about it. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e13242	Mr Fichtenbauer, Member of the Commission. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e13279	So, if Mr Grosz has a need to discuss the matter, he can express it himself. I feel called to speak through the statements made here by Mr Sacher in connection with agriculture, because in the form of the Federal Minister Darabos a new attack on the Allentsteig area is planned. I can remind you that in the previous budget accompanying law, we were able to bring down Article 95 by happy addition, because at that time it was planned to move the Forestry company Allensteig almost across, namely to the Federal Forests. The background is that a certain gentleman, who is responsible for the Federal Forest of the Forest District in Krems, has been eager for years and decades to gain access to the Forest Allensteig because it is an excellent forest – and, no one says, with magnificent wildlife. One can act as a hunting prince. There are the best deer, best red game, mufflons and so on and so on.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e13305	Mr Fichtenbauer, I am very sorry to interrupt you, but I called on Mr Eßl after 30 seconds after 1 minute, when he spoke about the previous item on the agenda, and I would also like to ask you to establish the factual link with the areas or the AMA and to continue with your remarks in this direction. [[Abg. Grosz: Insemination – Deer, then it goes!]] [[Abg. Grosz: Besamung – Deer – Allentsteig, then it goes!]] [[Abg. Singer: The Eßl has also talked!]] - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e13358	Thanks a lot. Of course, I respect the requirements of the Rules of Procedure. It is a call, in particular to the colleagues of the ÖVP, to prevent the current intention of the farmers' leases in Allensteig from getting away cheaply and using them better, and to put a feather on the budget of the Darabos. This is an injustice of enormous proportions, and this is no better because of Mr Sacher's comments. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e13395	No one is reporting on this. I'll close the debate. Is there a final word on the part of the report? - That's not the case. We shall proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First of all, we shall vote on the request of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry to take note of its report 1655 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall vote on the request of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry to take note of its report 1656 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This too is largely accepted. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Huber, fellow Members, on complete reform of the AMA. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. Finally, we are voting on the request from the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry to take note of its report 1569 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. [[14:15:33]] 8. Point Report of the Committee on Internal Affairs on the Government Template (1520, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Act amending the Security Police Act, the Police Cooperation Act and the Federal Law on the Establishment and Organization of the Federal Office for Corruption Prevention and Corruption (SPG-Novelle 2011) (1657 d.b.) 9. Point Report by the Committee on Internal Affairs on amendment 1812/A(E) by Mr Josef Bucher, colleagues and colleagues on the holding of a summit on ‘How far can civil rights still be softened?’ (1660, e.g.)
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e13489	We now come to points 8 and 9 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. Mr Vilimsky spoke. 7 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e13516	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I find it a pity that the very important debate on a sensitive question, namely the novel of the Security Police Act, has been put behind me quite interesting and partly humorous debate on springing and insulating techniques and has tried to push them a little out of the public light. First of all, I note that for my group, which holds very high the fundamental and freedom rights and citizens' rights, approval of this novel is not in question and we are in good company with the Austrian Bar Association, with the Austrian Journalists' Union, but also with organisations such as Greenpeace, who are all concerned, have serious concerns that fundamental and freedom rights can suffer massive damage with this novelle. [[Complaints with FPÖ and BZÖ.]] I would also like to say that, as a liberal, for my group, the best possible support for the police is one of our central goals. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And this best possible support from the police primarily refers to the inspector on the street to support them as best as possible – and not to provide political surveillance authorities with more and more dubious instruments. Better support for the executive, for example, when it comes to ensuring the best possible remuneration for our executives – not to remove the overtime, but to provide for a space allowance for the very difficult tasks that security forces carry into the agglomerations in order to pay them accordingly. Or: ensure the best possible equipment for police inspections so that police work can be carried out in an environment that is really up to date. The best possible support for the executive then, when it comes to an incident between the police and a criminal, that politics does not immediately give the policeman an advance of distrust and begins to hack around on him, but that the policy behind our police is up to the point where perhaps another issue shows that there has been some misbehavior. But up to this point, the executive on the part of politics deserves the best possible restraint we can give it. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] With this amendment to the Security Police Act, we have touched a very sensitive question, and that is not the first point, but a link in a very long chain of events that have led to massive discussions on fundamental, freedom and civil rights. The first was the storage of data on stocks, where the SPÖ of the chairman of the Maier Data Protection Council even left the vote away, because he had a bad conscience and could not or did not agree there – however. I should just like to remind you that at the time, with a similar argument as today, we were tried to click on the best possible way of dealing with terrorism and child abuse. Yeah, that's right, no question. It is also fundamental consensus in society and certainly also in the policy of combating terrorism, terrorism and child abuse as best possible. But – and now I am in the But – if you require the telecom operators not only in Austria, but across Europe, to store and document the communication data, the phone data, the text data, the Internet data of every citizen over six months, then you certainly do not catch one, and those are those who may have terrorist intentions and who may be involved in child abuse networks. Faith Are you really saying that someone who is a jihadist, someone who is a radical Islamist terrorist, who goes to A1, to T-Mobile, to Orange, 3 or wherever he goes, lays down his ID and then begins to surf around with his identification, to sit down in anti-state activities or to drift around in any child pornography networks? Don't do that! He'll take a value card, make a phone call, or surf the Internet with a value card. If you are caught due to a storage of data, that is certainly not that person, but you archive and document the telecommunication behaviour of every Austrian who goes back six months. That's indecent! This has nothing to do with fundamental and freedom rights. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We have the SWIFT agreement, which, after some resistance, has found the way through the European Parliament. This SWIFT Agreement makes it possible for the United States to store data where suspicious moments are or which are being constructed, where account movements pass through the pond to the United States. I say that this is not all right, especially since the opportunities of those concerned to oppose it are against zero. In a few weeks' time, we have the Passengers Directive in the European Parliament for decision-making, where there are also very serious concerns from a basic and freedom-based point of view. This passenger directive, where data are to be transmitted to the European Union again, is based on the fact that the relevant Committee of the European Parliament now also has discussions on national air traffic and the presentation is already under discussion. Now we have the Security Police Act, which is the title of the extended risk investigation, where it is made possible for the authority to conduct investigations against anyone where suspicions arise or where they may be designed, where the authority will be able to identify location data via the mobile phone, but not only against those persons where investigations have taken place or these reasons have been constructed to further observe observations, but it can also cover the accompanying environment. I say that for every journalist, for every opposition politician also active in the investigative field, a situation can arise very quickly for every critical blogger, where the authority begins to sniff, a legal protection officer who, from my point of view, is completely inadequately equipped, who is bent off, will not be informed in further consequence of the investigation. This is for me the central point and also the concern of the Bar Association, the concern of the Journalists' Union, that observations can take place here and that the one who has been observed is not even informed about it afterwards. This opens the door to abuse. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We are moving in a European Union composed of countries based on the principles of freedom, human rights, but also on civil rights, and which has its strengths there, and in a Union where precisely these areas are currently increasingly coming under the wheels, not only in Austria. We are following up on what is being done in Brussels and then, unfortunately, the government groups are all too often cornered down here. This is a Europe that is increasingly distant from people. I claim that a state and a European Union must have confidence in their population. In Austria, the government and the interior sector should also have sufficient confidence in the population, without allowing the archiving of telecommunications data, Internet data, SMS or here also the possibility of an extended risk investigation of a political surveillance authority such as the BAT to initiate investigations against everyone. And that can also affect any of you from the opposition parties. You only need to construct a suspicion in your environment, and you are already in the surveillance grid with your cell phone. You will be informed in the wake of no one. What the journalists' union, what the Austrian Bar Association, and what many fundamental and freedom lawyers demand is no more and no less than to evaluate the status quo of the current possibilities, to re-evaluate, where appropriate, in the area of legal protection, and also to take into account the need to inform observatories in retrospect. That's exactly the argumentation gear I'm trying to use on the side of the government factions, perhaps to think again, to get on the brake today, to install a surveillance brake if you want to, and to give preference to the fundamental and freedom rights in this state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e13632	Next speaker: Mr Kößl. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e13653	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Before responding to the comments made by my previous speaker, I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! Our main objective is and our responsibility is, of course, to ensure the safety of the population as best as possible. And if crime changes in all its manifestations, it is Parliament's task to create the legal basis for police to work efficiently. So it's now the Security Police Act again. Since the manifestations in the area of terrorism have changed, it is necessary that we make adjustments here. These adjustments will be adopted today. Your objections have been very hysterical, Mr Vilimsky. If crime changes when, in the past, group formation has come to bear in terrorism, while today, in various areas of the individual perpetrators, we think of Erfurt, we think of Liège, we think of Norway, then, I believe, it is necessary that we break down on the individual perpetrators what we had so far in the areas of the groups, in the approach to the fight against terrorism and in the extended investigation. Of course we must be: It was also in Liège and Erfurt that the population drew the attention of the police to various activities of these people. The police, however, did not have the opportunity to intervene accordingly. It cannot be in our sense that we are only operational if something like this has already happened, but I believe that we must contribute accordingly to prevention. This is, and in itself, a stronger direction towards prevention. The legal protection officer has, as I believe, proved himself in the last ten years. If we see that last year ten requests were made by the police to the law enforcement officers, then, I mean, with a lot of attention, then there will be done on and on and on, with a lot of feeling and with a lot of sense of responsibility. In my opinion, it is quite right and important that we bring this legal provision to our decision in the manner that we have here, and I call on the opposition to go along with it.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e13737	The amendment just tabled is sufficiently supported. After I have checked him in detail, I establish the subject matter. The application is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e13818	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Steinhauser. 7 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e13839	Ladies and gentlemen! The National Council needs to know that it is issuing the license today. That is how we must summarize the law, even if Mr Kößl has tried to weigh us gently into sleep with his amendment. Be assured, Mr Kößl, that the opposition will not fall asleep and will criticize this law. With the introduction of extended risk research for individuals, monitoring will be massively extended, without judicial control, and in the future it will be possible for unsuspected citizens to come to the sight of the security authorities through unsuspected outages and to face massive surveillance measures, with observation, with hidden investigations, and all without judicial control. There is neither a need nor a prospect of success for this law. There is also no legal protection, but there is a high risk of abuse, ladies and gentlemen. I also tell you why there is no need: There, where criminal offences are committed, it is now sufficient to identify them under the rules of criminal proceedings. That's clear, too. We have here in Parliament, not with our agreement, but is a fact that is being punished by the so-called hate-sprayers. That is, for the announcement of any hate crimes, as the Minister of the Interior has to say, there is already a criminal paragraph anyway. So anywhere there you can theoretically already determine according to the criminal procedure order. You've already made an extension anyway. Even where there is no crime, it is already possible to find out under the Security Police Act, because, in the context of preventive protection, the police may already determine if a dangerous attack is likely. That means there's no need for a criminal offence so you can't find out about the security police law for a long time. I wonder, Who or what does the Ministry of the Interior have in the visor with this novelle? All known cases of individual perpetrators will also not be prevented by the new law. Franz Fuchs: Who believes Franz Fuchs would have been able to prevent with today's law novel? That's completely naïve. Franz Fuchs was completely inconspicuous until his first crime, even after that. He didn't appear to be public. You'd never have come to that. The second prominent example is the so-called Breivik of Traun. This has not been particularly observed in the Austrian public debate. The background: On the day that Breivik in Norway etched dozens of people, in Traun in Upper Austria, an Austrian, Mr. Johann N., dressed his hunting suit, armed himself and shot a Romanian family, with the balance sheet one dead and two seriously injured. He's given this reason. They, obviously the foreigners, all dance around us on their noses. I mean the foreigners from the lower layer. We already have too many of them, and not all are like me and can resist them. After that, all who have been concerned with this case asked themselves: Yeah, you couldn't have stopped that? And unisono was the answer: No, no, no, This person has behaved completely inconspicuously in public. This was a ticking time bomb that retreated and developed fantasies in her crazy world, which she then put into reality. Because of this novel, you'd never have caught this single culprit. Then Breivik himself. The BVT chief says that even because of the new novel, one could probably not have prevented a Breivik, because it is realistic because Breivik, as a single perpetrator, was a ticking time bomb, which, without it being foreseeable, finally unloaded itself in this terrible form. Or is the novelle in the following case, namely the case of a SPÖ-communal politician from the Weinviertel? He wrote on Facebook: "In blue-black I stand as a terrorist in the newspaper. That's where I blow Parliament. Samt the inmates.” In any case, regardless of all criticism of black and blue, this is an inadmissible statement. That is out of question. The crucial question, however, is: Do you need the law to do that? Is the law made in this case: Yes or no? That's my question. If so, I'll tell you the following: The Clou is against this local politician is already being determined. That is, if this statement is already being determined against this local politician, then I do not see who you want to see with the extended risk research for individuals. They have all the legal handling, and enlargement is simple and simply unarguable, Mrs Innenminister. The Security Police Act suffers from a massive lack of legal protection, and the twin brother or twin sister of the law deficit is abuse, the risk of abuse. Ladies and gentlemen, when I pointed out the risk of abuse in the Committee on the Interior, this was the following reaction. That's what they said: No, you shouldn't always assume that the police are misapplying the laws. – This is not access. There is also an appeal at a criminal court in the first instance. No one assumes that a criminal is in principle misapplying the law. This is the essential feature of a developed rule of law, and this characteristic is lacking in the Security Police Act. Legal protection is largely underdeveloped. An example, again an intensification in this law: The mobile location is expanded, i.e. the identification of location data. So far, this was possible if the suspicion of suicide had been given. In the future, the query will be possible even if there is a suspicion of suicide risk, plus the location data of accompanying persons may also be determined. And now the jumping point is the following: It is always argued that these are important points so that in this case one knows where the people are staying. But I ask you: Why does the law not provide for an obligation to communicate with those concerned? If the persons were located and found, why not inform them that their location data has been retrieved afterwards? This is classical legal protection so that the person concerned can determine whether the law is misused or not. All of this doesn't know the law. And that's not an individual case. All surveillance measures lack the possibilities for legal protection and the obligation to communicate. I remember the animal protection case, where also hidden investigators were used. The persons concerned have not been informed. They have never experienced this, let alone be able to check the legality. By chance they have come up in the process, but that is not the quality of a developed rule of law. And these shortcomings will not be solved, but they will be intensified by the extension of the Security Police Act, because there are more and more possibilities, but the legal protection of this law will not be extended. The most important point in this law, if extended risk research is expanded, is the question: How is legal care given to the situation in which the person concerned does not know that he is being monitored? This in turn is completely underdeveloped by us. There is the legal protection officer who has once had the deficit that he is institutionally attached to the Ministry of the Interior. We really need a much more modern legal protection regime. That is why we are also proposing a resolution if this law is already being strengthened, which we reject being extended to include at least legal protection in the Security Police Act. Our proposal is: Where there is a hidden investigation – and this also calls for our request – there will also be a hidden defense in the future. What does that mean? – In all cases where surveillance measures are provided for under the Security Police Act, lawyers who are appointed on their own behalf should respect their rights in the absence of the person concerned. In other words, if there is an application, the lawyer should claim opposition and appeal opportunities for the person concerned. Second point. It needs judicial control, not a legal guardian who says yes or no – he always says yes anyway – but it needs judicial control, judicial approval. And we have the advantage that we are now expanding administrative jurisdiction in the constitutional area by creating national courts. Why do we not implement these in such a way that, in the case of surveillance measures under the Security Police Act, we provide for the consent of the Regional Administrative Courts? – Then we would have a comprehensive representation by a lawyer in the absence of the person concerned plus a judicial approval. The most important thing would be the understanding of the person concerned after termination of the monitoring measures which are not intended to be implemented consistently so that the person concerned can at least ex post, i.e. afterwards verify whether the monitoring was lawful. You don't see all that. Interestingly, BAT chief Gridling has said in the hearing in the Committee on the Interior that he is not against more control, and he should not fail. - But you don't take that up. It's a one-way runway in one direction. There is always more surveillance, but legal protection does not develop. That is why we reject this law. You can't justify it, you can't argue it. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Wheeler.]] - They laugh. Mr Kößl has brought out some good examples which are not suitable. The case in Liège was completely inconspicuous. That was dramatic. That was the case where at the... – No, it was completely inconspicuous, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. That's not true! - Oh, my God!]] And that is the crucial point. They want to expand the law, have no arguments about it, and do not extend legal protection. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e13893	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and has been presented in its main points. According to § 53 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure he has already been distributed to all Members in the Chamber and is thus under negotiation. The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e14003	Next speaker: Mr Fazekas. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e14024	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen, Perhaps one should also tell listeners at the outset that, despite all the legitimate criticism that has come today, it is partly incomprehensible to me, it is also to be noted that what is ultimately to be decided today is almost no longer recognizable and is no longer in agreement with what has been introduced as a government template. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: That's not true! That's not true! 21/3! Nothing has been changed at all!]] This is true, Mr Westenthaler, and we have worked very much into it and have not made it easy for us at all on this very essential and important question, which we raise today. On the contrary! All these things, which have been incorporated into the review process, have also been taken into account to a great extent. Of course, some have not been taken into account, because if you change a security police law, it must be clear that there will also be interventions. We must not forget, however, ladies and gentlemen, that until 1993, the executive has always built this important, but also very difficult, and complicated, preliminary work on transfer rules, on constitutional transmission rules that were 50 or 60 years old, and has not had a regulatory basis for how police work can be organized and structured. That is why the Security Police Act came into force in 1993. In the end, however, it must also be noted that the Security Police Act is a law that reflects to a great extent the change of society and crime and therefore must be changed and evaluated very often, because it must take account of the circumstances. One simply notices this with the many innovations, my dear ones Ladies and gentlemen of the House, because we should also take our responsibility not to frighten citizens because of such a situation, Law is sharpened or anything else happens, but to make it clear to them that this law is created to protect them. This is a very important task for Parliament and for us too. We are required to decide accordingly. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] This is not a common point of view, it is not a question of limiting the editorial work of the individual newspapers – for example in the review process – but it is a question of being able to offer Paroli this far-reaching facet and further development of the dimension of international terrorism. I agree with Mr Steinhauser, who says that certain cases cannot be prevented. – Yes, that’s right, you won’t be able to prevent them. But in many and also essential areas, preparatory work is very important in order to prevent such cases. And that will work. I can just remind you of the case of Franz Fuchs. Franz Fuchs was such a special case where, when it was about the Rasterfährung, there were major discussions and the least likely would have liked to agree to a Rasterfändung after the time. In the end, however, the Raster Enforcement has also succeeded in making the perpetrator Franz Fuchs dingfest. That is, ladies and gentlemen, we have taken care to really improve in all areas where it was important and to ensure that citizens do not have to worry. And the Ministry of the Interior's Legal Protection Commissioner is a subject that is constantly being addressed. Here again, I would like to consider: This is an instance to be reported in detail in the Subcommittee on this investigation. This gives parliamentary control. This ensures that Parliament, the House, is also informed and that we will act accordingly if we believe that it has not been done properly. That is why I should like to ask you once again to consider this, and to ask for your consent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e14069	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Westenthaler. 7 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e14090	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Colleague of the SPÖ, Mr Mayor! - I know, I'm speaking to you with the title of office. [[Abg. Fazekas: Fazekas!]] Mr Fazekas, you can repeat it so often and say that it has changed so much from the beginning to the end, it has been depleted so much. [[Abg. Fazekas: Is that right or not?]] - I got it there. I'd like to show you again. I have here the ministerial draft, then the government proposal and, lastly, the committee report to be adopted. [[The speaker shall keep the above documents up to date.]] In all three documents is this famous § 21 para. 3 completely unchanged. You didn't change anything! And that is the central point of criticism. That is the central point of criticism! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Fazekas.]] This section makes it possible for people who do not even have a crime in mind, but only to be conspicuous, to make a political, religious statement that, when it comes to it, these people can come to the crosshairs of the investigators. And we reject that, honourable Member. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] That's always the same thing. This concerns non-streamline people in this country, oppositionists, journalists, people who may be opposed to government politics. These are relatively rapid in this so-called extended risk research. That's quite interesting. This is so harmlessly called “enhanced risk research. ” But what is hidden behind it, what kind of state of surveillance and the state-regulated leadership, that is not said. What is this extended risk research? – Monitoring, mobile phone monitoring, analysis and evaluation of personal data, and ultimately to special methods of investigation. And all of this in the future without any judicial approval. There's no need for judicial approval anymore. [[Abg. Grosz: This is a fool!]] If an investigator doesn't like the nose of Gerald Grosz and he thinks he has said anything, then he can take these investigation steps. - And that can't be it. This is against the rule of law, which is a fading out of civil rights, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. That can't be it, you open the door and the gate here. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Mr Kößl, you are out here and you are imagining the opposition – what did you say? – that would be a hysterical representation we make here. Not us, Mr Kößl. There has been a hearing here in Parliament, where the Bank has used all the experts to practice massive criticism, quite massive criticism. There are comments from the Federal Chamber of Labour. [[Abg. That's not true!]] Do you know what the Federal Chamber of Labour said? – That the principles of a liberal rule of law are at risk with this bill. [[Abg. Fazekas: This has been changed!]] The board of attorneys warns. The journalists warn. Can I quote what the Federal Chamber of Labour says? – And that has not been changed, it still stands to this day. – The Federal Chamber of Labour says in its opinion: “The proposed scheme” – and it refers very precisely to § 21 para. 3 – ‘would therefore be directed against individuals who have become ‘remarkable’ in any way, but without ‘criminal’ action. The provisions could be interpreted in such a way that already ‘harmless’ statements justify extended risk research.’ I'll tell you something. If any citizen, any one who has a rage on this government, is right, sitting at his main table in the inn and saying there, I am actually of the opinion that this Federal Chancellor is finally belonging away – clamping up: thinking through democratic elections, but not saying it – then he would already be a case for advanced risk research, can be observed, the mobile phone can be heard, he can be bullied. This is a scandal that you decide here today! It has nothing to do with democracy. [[He proposed that the Court should reply as follows: Tadler.]] Not us, the opposition alone, even the journalists say that. I can quote you with tons of criticism from journalists, such as the Journalists' Union, which, of course, is in the process of being criminalized, because not only people who are publicly critical, but also people who are at risk of being criminalised because of some expression, but in the second place. Paragraph – and this is especially perfide – also because someone can become a victim of advanced risk research, which can only obtain information about it in writing or through computers. These are all journalists in this country. All journalists are being criminalized. Therefore, the Chairman of the Journalist Union also said in the "Standard" on 27 July. January – it hasn't been that long – is quite clear: “The changes that we are considering are making our profession into the market.” – The profession of journalists. I continue to quote – Bauer says: “It is in the nature of the profession of journalists to inform themselves, if necessary, of criminal matters when calculating, such as political radical groups. This can be done as a single person – and could, according to SPG-Novelle, be taken into the thread cross of the constitutional protection.” – with observation measures The danger of limiting journalistic freedom is given by this novel. “This novelle is a climate of fear,” also says “Reporters Without Borders”, journalists’ groups say. If you don't believe us, you'll see these people who are afraid of their work in this country and don't trust to reveal things. This is also an effect of this law, ladies and gentlemen. [[In the case of the BZÖ, as well as the members of the FPÖ.]] That is why I believe that this restriction of civil rights, this violation of the principles of the liberal rule of law, and this intervention in personal rights, will have to be carried out on a massive basis. I am very glad that this item on the agenda also deals with the request made by the BZÖ, namely Mr Bucher. Mrs Minister, in the light of the decisions taken in recent months, I urgently appeal to you – Mr Vilimsky has listed them: from the data collection to today's SPG novelle, to the flight data et cetera: Please, Mrs Minister, take our request seriously and finally convene a summit on the evasion of citizens' rights in that country! Only your self-proclaimed experts always say everything is fine. I'll tell you something. That's what I'm counting on your legal protection officer. That's probably a joke he's doing. It is dependent on the Ministry of the Interior and now has to be controlled as a sacrosanct institution. [[Abg. That's not true! They deliberately say the untruth!]] Do you know how the reason why you're allowed to listen to cell phones without judicial approval, just like that? Do you know how he made that up? He said that we must do this, because with it we can find companions of people who are at risk of suicide and thus prevent suicide. Then we asked you in the hearing: Mrs Minister, once you discuss how many people who are at risk of suicide or who actually commit suicide are actually accompanying us!Unknown term type: "%s".? Who's accompanying someone in the suicide? How often does that happen? And then we've figured out that there's been a single case in the last few years. One case! As a result of this single case, therefore, Mr. Rechtsschutzanwort comes and wants such a comprehensive SPG amendment that every mobile phone, no matter which one, can be monitored in the future? That's not a measure, Mrs. Minister. You have to admit that this is overwhelming, superfluous, therefore not to be answerable, either. [[Congratulations with BZÖ and FPÖ as well as by Mr Ing. Lugar and Tadler.]] I call on you very quickly to start the debate on citizens' rights in this country and to have a really broad discussion by means of a survey, whatever the case, by means of a summit, so that we do not run the risk that in future we will in fact continue to pardon and defend this state-approved surveillance state. [[Abg. Grosz: This is like the Metternich!]] In any case, as far as we can, we will be massively fighting this method of persuasion.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e14260	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Maier. [[Abg.: (on the way to the speaker's desk) Actual correction!]] – For an actual correction. I would remind you of the relevant provisions of the Rules of Procedure. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e14324	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! My predecessor, Mr. Abge-ordner Ing. Westenthaler, has claimed in his speech, § 21 para. 3 would not have been changed. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Isn't he anyway!]] – This statement is proven to be wrong. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Where has he been changed?]] Rather, it is true that § 21 para. 3 has been substantially changed, which has been restricted to crimes that are worldlyly or religiously motivated. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: That's not true!]] And this is a massive change, Mr Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e14400	Mrs Bundesminister Mag spoke. Mikl leader reported. I would draw attention to the need to interrupt in 4 minutes because of the call for urgent request. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e14438	High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Today we have a very important and sensitive matter on the agenda, the previous speakers have already demonstrated this, but I think none of us can say here that the world has not changed in recent years and decades and that modern technology has, of course, changed the kind of crime. As crime has changed, this is a new challenge for the police – a new challenge where we simply need answers. It is therefore important and necessary to implement the revision of this Security Police Act. Do everything in a short time to get along with the speaking time. In particular, it is important to me to ensure, above all, that we give our security authorities the tools that they need in the end to clarify not only crime, but above all, to avoid terrorist dangers. But, of course, it is important to me to maintain high levels of data protection, to continue to guarantee privacy and, above all, to protect the population from terrorist dangers. In the case of all the instruments we have introduced – I recall the extended risk research for individual perpetrators, because in recent years the trend has simply shown that the number of individual perpetrators is increasing, or the data cutting that is simply important and necessary – the legal protection officer plays a very important role because he has to give the OK to advanced risk research because he also needs to be informed in the case of a data overlap and has a three-day deadline. That is, the legal protection officer, who is independent and wise, plays a very important and crucial role here. They all know that the Constitution states that we need a legal protection officer that we cannot order a judge to do so. And, of course, the legal protection officer is always obliged to submit an activity report. This is ultimately done on a regular basis year after year. Don't we pretend that this innovation would be exaggerating, as if it were somehow far-reaching! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no! It is not in any way a blaze, it is a question of averting terrorist dangers, it is ultimately a question of protecting the population. [[Abg. May. Stefan: Where's that?]] I am telling you quite frankly and honestly that this criticism is much preferable to me today than if our police could not prevent an attack and we would have twenty dead. In this sense, I ask for your consent.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e14475	I am now interrupting the negotiations on this item on the agenda so that the required procedure for urgent procedure can take place at 3 p.m. in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. [[14:59:50]] [[Request for urgent procedure]] Mr Bucher, colleagues and colleagues, to the Federal Minister for Economic Affairs, Family and Youth concerning “Funct pay – stop unspoiled disposal at the fuel stations’ taps immediately!” (1839/A)(E)
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e14508	We arrive at urgent treatment of the self-employed application 1839/A(E). As he has now approached all the Members, there is a lack of reading by the writer. The urgent application has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e14655	I give the floor to Mr Klubobmann Bucher as an applicant for the reasons for the urgent request. According to § 74a para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure shall not exceed 20 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e14687	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Today we want to put the essentials under the theme “current fuel price development”. I think there's no one in your circle who didn't mention the record price development at the gas stations. [[President Mag. Prammer is taking over the presidency again.]] Of course, you ask yourself all over the country: What can politics do? What is the policy for if it does not take action in the event of exorbitant price developments, as they are currently taking place at the spray prices? This is the most important task of politics: not only to increase taxes in the sense of tax and invent new taxes, but also to control people's living conditions in such a way that they can still spend their lives in a viable country, and above all that those who are currently affected by the enormous price developments at the gas stations can still live. That is why we have chosen this initiative from the BZÖ today to raise your awareness of how people who depend on the car every day when they want to drive to work think about it. Because I think that many of the reds and blacks want to dispel this and not to see what people actually feel and what trouble they feel every day when they have to drive to a gas station. We say that it is not only high time to take action at last, but also to think creatively about whether we want to accept what is going on, namely that the oil multitis are increasingly cashing and increasing their profits. The newspaper “Today” is entitled “The Oil Multis on Record Course”. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of red and black! Take a look at the dream gains currently recorded by this oil surplus: Shell: 30,9 billion dollars, a profit development up with a plus of 54 percent; Chevron: 27 billion dollars, plus 42 percent profit development – we are not talking about sales here, ladies and gentlemen, but we are talking about profit here! – but also Austrian companies like the OMV: modest €1.4 billion profit, but also an increase in profits of around 16 percent. In the meantime, ladies and gentlemen, the people no longer understand this: that politics allows politics, such as the government policy in Austria, to develop itself as a price driver in terms of fuel in our country. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! What, then, do people hear as an argument from the responsible Minister for Economic Affairs? Go to the neighbouring country, to Italy or go to the Federal Republic of Germany! There they pay even more at the gas stations. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Strutz.]] Yes, this is a great argument, Minister of Finance. But then please also say – because otherwise you will not only be disbelievable, but at the same time make fun of yourself – that people in Germany and also in Italy earn net more, on average, because the Austrians live in a “High Tax National Park”, my dear friends [[OBJECTIVES]] Ladies and gentlemen, and have a tax burden of 45 percent to suffer! That is your favorite EIA policy, which you have been in debt for 25 years, Mr. Federal Minister for Economic Affairs! If you analyse this exactly, you will conclude that the oil multitis is in any case at least uncertain – no matter where it takes place: whether the natural disaster is, whether the wars are, whether the crash or the unrest or whether the accidents are – these incidents are used as an argument to move the prices up. But then, when these crises are eliminated and planned, there is no price trend down – no, prices remain at this level. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dolinschek.]] And what do the gentlemen and ladies of the Federal Government do? – You will then also put one on it, namely, with a mineral oil tax increase like last year, in January 2011. People do not understand this at all: as they have to suffer, in view of enormous price developments, enormous inflation, where they already do not know how to deal with the money, then they also have to suffer, namely a further taxation of the vital fuel, because many cannot help but drive to work by car. – Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! This is an immoral and unscrupulous approach and not a responsible approach. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] There is, of course, also the suspicion that the oil multitis will take advantage of all these situations in order to make a price agreement with each other probably. This accusation does not come from me, Minister of State. Look Once loosely in the left ranks of your coalition partner: The Chamber of Workers suspects that! Where are the workers? Mr Maier, I would like to hear from you today something out here! [[Abg.: (keeping a note in height) I have it there!]] The Chamber of Labour says that the presumption is that the oil companies form a cartel among themselves, that there are price agreements. [[Abg. Grosz: Where is the Federal Competition Authority?]] Now, Mr Maier and Mr Bundesminister, why does the Federal Government not mind? Why Makes Your coalition partner, the SPÖ, nothing against it? Because if the Chamber of Labour here puts a suspicion into the world and the European initiative also assumes that price agreements are under way here, we wonder why nothing is happening, why there are no initiatives by the Federal Government to put an end to this. The only thing that the Federal Minister for Economic Affairs, Mr Mitterlehner, says behind me, is – literally –: ‘official’ means the whole ‘not taxable’. [[Abg. Dr. Strutz: That's not true! That's not right!]] This is the only thing that comes to your mind for this accusation: You're almost powerless. Then many people also wonder: If politics is so powerless, what are they going to have to do with this policy and these government politicians in their functions if they are unable to take action in such situations as the existence of many people and families in our country? But They also make this even worse by raising the mineral oil tax and thereby chiefly shrinking the commuters and the drivers overall. [[Abg. Dolinschek:... right, the mileage too!]] The diesel alone: Look You're going to the diesel price! On the diesel price, 29 percent of the oil tax is on it. Then the Austrian unique is added – there is nowhere else: the tax on the tax – then the tax on mineral oil is added to the tax, which is another 17 percent, so that only the diesel is 46 percent tax on it. That's what Mrs. Finanzminister filed. At Super: 34 percent mineral oil tax plus 17 percent VAT, so we are already at over 50 percent, namely 51 percent pure tax burden. We want to address this issue now, because it is not only the mineral oil companies that can be blamed for the fact that prices are so exorbitantly developing up, but because price drivers number one is, of course, the Federal Government. Why? Because, if you move up the mineral oil tax, of course, the pumping column prices are even more expensive. Clearly, because this is used as an argument in order to hit another one, and that is why at the end of the day this enormous price will also come out. Especially in times of high inflation, I am blaming you because, for example, according to the consumer price index, the price has been 25 percent since 2000 – since 2000, the cost of living of people has increased by 25 percent! – while the car costs, and these are not our figures, they are the figures of the black ÖAMTC – for something the ÖAMTC has to be good, because it also costs a lot of money – since the year 2000 has increased by 30 percent. [[Abg. Clickovits: Exactly! That means, not black, he thinks right!]] That means that you must also include this in your calculation and your considerations if you use the control screw there all the time. I would also like to give you an information, Mr Minister of Economic Affairs, because at the same time it is always argued that the Federal Government is investing alternatively in public transport so that the changeover to public transport becomes more attractive. Local transport has become more expensive by 33 percent, and long-term public transport tickets have been expensive by 38 percent. That means everything has become expensive for the people! In the end, there are no alternatives for many people, especially in rural areas, by abandoning the car and otherwise finding the way to work. This government not only benefits from taxes - mineral oil tax and VAT - but also benefits a third time, namely through the profits and dividends of the OMV. That is to say, the Federal Government is holding its hands everywhere in order to scrape the driver and make people in our country as expensive as possible, and we criticize this from the BZÖ. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] That is why I would also like to make a few proposals to you. You should then discuss these with those concerned in your area of responsibility and not just organize coffee wrench, where you invite the oil mules and chat with them a nice afternoon, but you should discuss with them constructive changes and think about what you can do so that the competition takes place downward as regards price developments, and not up, as it has been driven in recent months and years. With our BZÖ demand package, which is ultimately reflected in this urgent request, we call for a reduction in the last increase in mineral oil tax, especially in view of the enormous price increases that are now falling due to this load package, this scrapping package on the Austrians, ladies and gentlemen. That would be a start, namely to relieve the drivers. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Secondly, Get more competition! Finally, make more competition! That's okay, and we've seen that too. Only the national filling stations or the opening of additional Federal filling stations ensure that the price development at the tap columns moves downwards. [[Abg. Clickovits: There are no local gas stations!]] Well, we have one in Friesach, in my hometown. We also have the cheapest fuel price throughout Austria. [[Abg. Head: And what does that mean in the final effect? Nationalisation of the gas stations?]] And that's why I can tell from my private experiences, because I'm one that, unlike many others in here, is self-tankers and because I don't have a service car with a chauffeur because you don't trust yourself in the gas station anymore. I'm going to drink myself every time and therefore I know how hard it is to pay these bills. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] A third proposal: Luxembourg shows us that there is a possibility to cover the price. The Luxembourg model is an example of how to keep the price stable on the market by setting a price margin. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] – No, not state regulations, but by setting a price margin. Within the price range, the prices can then develop, but not exorbitantly, not unrestrainedly upwards, just as you are currently doing. That would be the third thought-provoking thing. Fourthly, a mile-dependent pendulum fee or better a pendulum deposit, because many commuters – and this is also addressed to the address of the SPÖ, which always represents the small man and, above all, the workers – many small income recipients have nothing to do with this credit rating, because they can't take advantage of it. Therefore, a negative tax component would be the only alternative. The fifth proposal that we want to make is a price-fixing of the spray prices only with two points, the sixth of which is EU-wide support, that price-fixing be prohibited in the future, and that we really look at the oil surplus. Because if they do not feel observed and no monitoring is taking place at European level, and if politics does not at last give a sign, ladies and gentlemen, then price developments will go towards €2 in the next future, and we must prevent that from happening. We owe this to drivers in Austria! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Why should I put it? Don't you finally join the Federal Competition Authority, Mr. Federal Minister? And why does this Federal Competition Authority not even ensure that these huge price differences finally end before the weekend and before the holidays or before the holidays? No one sees this anymore, that whenever the driver needs the car, the prices at the gas stations are always going up. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Completely right!]] No one sees it! This is, in most cases, an anti-cyclical approach to crude oil price developments at European level: The fuel is becoming cheaper at European level, but it is becoming more expensive at the gas stations. The promotion of the crude oil is getting cheaper and the price at the gas stations is getting more expensive. No one understands this, Mr Federal Minister, and that is why today we are offering you the opportunity to finally explain to people at home what is your intention, what you are thinking now, to do business, so that one day we can end up with this withdrawal, which is being operated by the oil surplus. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] We want to make a contribution from the BZÖ – a modest contribution, but nevertheless a contribution, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Jewel beaters: Fill up the tank today!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek.]] We'll call for tomorrow, the 1. March, to a gas station boycott on, to a gas station boycott, which is to be a warning against the oil mult, to show solidarity to the people who need the car cannot give up on it, and to at least put a sign. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] We will be able to stop this price spiral and we will not be able to prevent this price trend upward, but at least a small contribution, to make a warring contribution so that this dropout finally has an end. [[Abg. Jewellery: Drink today!]] [[further calls to the ÖVP]] We say: Enough paid!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e14949	On the issue of an opinion, Mr. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please. [[Abg. Rädler: Now it's called watch!]] The speaking time should not exceed 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e14994	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Bucher, yes, I think it was a modest contribution that you have now made to solving a really important problem in itself, because many television viewers and others are following with concern the development of the spray price. [[Abg. Dolinschek: Arrogance comes before the case!]] The question, however, is: How can you solve the problem? [[Abg. Grosz: Since 1999 you have a decree authority!]] I would have expected us to enter into a constructive dialogue, but what I find here is... – Wonderful, Tankboycott, 1. ==References== [[Under intermediate calls, members of the BZÖ have a transparency with the following title: BZÖ; Tankboykott; 1. March 2012; enough paid]] We've been tracking it. What I'm aware of is that you're making a urgent request. Now you have to say, the parliamentarians know of course, a urgent request is something other than a urgent request, and somewhere you can see when you read it through, the content of this request is actually relatively thin and goes relatively strongly towards the Ministry of Finance. [[Abg. Bucher: Explain this to the drivers!]] The fact that you somehow did not fully understand the situation of competence can be concluded from the fact that I believe you have heard me say to me “Mr. Finanzminister”. There are more dishonest comparisons, but there is already a sense that the content is somehow somewhat thin, precisely – for the second – because there is no single question in it. [[Abg. Scheibner: Yes, there are no questions in an application!]] [[Abg. Dolinschek: This is a request, not a request!]] But this has a different category than before in the whole discussion, because so far You have been in the Federal Government before, and today you have increased this by one step: Yes, we are even responsible for the withdrawal, we are responsible for tax ceilings, and we are also responsible for international developments. [[Abg. Grosz: With 50 percent, you are the price driver!]] [[Abg. Grosz: Trailers are you!]] – Lager, Mr Grosz, in your division, which is always very adapted. I would like to address the subject a little more appropriately and ask the first question: What are we talking about? [[Abg. Dolinschek: From the spray price!]] Are we talking about a market that is Austrian – or are we talking about something else when we are talking about petrol and diesel? We have a situation in this market where 90 percent of products are imported – 90 percent of products! So 10 percent come from Austria, the rest from abroad. Secondly, we have 73 companies that import. You in your application bring it about as if it were a company, that is, OMV, and that makes huge profits and has led huge dividends to the state. [[Abg. Bucher: Just one example!]] Read your own application! I say to you: Look You are developing internationally! In all other countries there is a corresponding price trend in this market. Because of the Iran crisis, because of the situation in the Arab and African states last year, but also because of the stronger demand in the United States, because of the dollar-strengthening, because of the development of emerging economies, demand and partly not only demand, but also a particular problem, namely: You could have too little oil as a whole. All this is driving the price up – possibly, you say antitrust, but it's a fact that you have to stand around the world. Your request continues: “Every one still so little uncertainty in world policy and every small upward movement on the international fuel exchanges is transformed into a ringing coin at the domestic gas stations already hours later.” [[Abg. Grosz: That's it!]] Then I would recommend a comparison to you, especially since no calculation reform has yet taken place. Look at how raw materials prices have developed since January! Since January, Brent's raw material has developed by a total of 16 percent to the top, and in this period the prices for diesel have increased by 5 percent, for super gasoline by 6 percent. If you interpret this to mean that every small movement is converted into sounding coin, then this is the division of the BZÖ, but the truth is certainly not that. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] They really want to change political change on the back of other parties, but I think the voters too can understand: This is an unloving development, but the reasons for this are not in Austria. You also say in your presentation: “Specially affected by the wrong game of the Federal Government are the commuters and all those who are dependent on the car in their profession.” There's something true in there. Pendlers and those who need the car to be mobile actually need cheap prices. And what are the current Austrian fuel prices? – The current Austrian spray prices – even today! – are significantly below the EU average. [[Abg. New builder: Is that the same with income?]] [[Inter-calls at the BZÖ.]] You mentioned earlier, Italians come to us, Germans come to us. But there is also the per capita gross national product below ours. [[Abg. Grosz: And the Slovenians also drink with us!]] That is, in principle, they have an even cheaper constellation. If you compare in this context, then you have to ask the question: Do they also have all of this dark system like us? Do they have only cartels and federal governments that are just sinking, or could there be any international trend? Furthermore, your wording – and this is very interesting – states that “the ceiling for taxes and taxes in Austria is reached”. – Mr Collegue, where did you get it? You're something like that? If you look at country comparisons, before and with the corresponding tax, so also with the increase we made last year – I will then give you this graph, you see it a little bad – also with the corresponding inclusion of mineral oil tax, Austria is among the four best countries, which is the tax approach. [[the speaker keeps them up to date]] In other words: We have a very low tax burden. [[Inter-calls at the BZÖ.]] This is probably unpleasant to you, and, Mr Bucher, it does not help if you laugh. Just look at the facts, and they're I think you still haven't realized that the mineral oil tax is a quantity-related tax and none aimed at how high the price is. [[New calls to the BZÖ.]] [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] Therefore, the share of this tax has also fallen in the price as a whole. In 2003, the super-fuel share of the mineral oil tax was 44.29, at present it is 27.92, and the same is true for the diesel share, of 33.68 a corresponding reduction is also reported. So if you compare the figures from 2003 with those of today, you see that the share of mineral oil tax has dropped overall. [[Abg. Ursula Haubner: It's getting cheaper!]] – It will not be cheaper at all because the price of the raw product is rising. But from that the argument is that everyone, and in particular the state, just sinks there, is just funny. Next point, and now we really come to something interesting. Mr Bucher, you have addressed the competition, you are always acting as a representative of the market economy, who knows exactly what the market is doing, who says the mineral oil companies write record profits, and as an example the OMV cites. [[Abg. Bucher: Yes!]] [[Abg. Dr. Strutz: Yes, but at a maximum price!]] Mr President, I would like to tell you the following: If you drive through the area like this, have you ever noticed that 200 gas stations in Austria have locked up? Have you ever received a study that deals with how Europe's margins are, what the gas stations are about to do? As far as the margins are concerned, Austria is in the fourth worst position. It's easy to explain. We have a pretty strong competition. Norway has a different constellation, it is more remote and can impose higher prices. With us, a swivel, the competition is very strong, the margins are very low. By the way, you have – the OMC balance sheet report was on 23. February on the net – also misquoted the profits. These are 2.5 billion and not below. The interesting thing about this is: Only around 10 percent come from the gas station business, tending to fall! Faith Do you really want the OMC to switch to automatic filling stations if there is great profit and the big discount possible? Faith You really think the gas station owners, who all have very small margins, are being pushed only by the big ones? [[Abg. Bucher: Are you the interest of the oil mult or the Minister of Economic Affairs?]] Or do you not think that our problem could be that we are partly a mountain-like region and that there the network is relatively expensive? I would also like to mention the other problems you face as a market economyr with the special dividend, because this is really particularly embarrassing for a representative of a political party who is acting for the market economy and therefore, I assume, should have certain knowledge of share law. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] We are immediately coming to that point which I hear from you, but unfortunately partly also from representatives of the Freedom Party again and again: You must now officially arrange the prices! International development is meated. You can arrange this in Austria, set the prices! Someone even threatened me with an advertisement at the corruption prosecutor's office. Now look at this! First of all, we used this instrument in the post-war period because demand had to be covered and distribution carried out accordingly. But read – you can imagine that for everyone – just read the price law! – you and others always demand, now you have just said it again, the official price fixing. [[Abg. Bookbooker: Luxembourg model!]] [[Abg. Bucher: Luxembourg model, I told you!]] § 5a Price Act states: “(1) With regard to oil and its derivatives, on the basis of certain verifiable facts, there is reason to believe that the price or price increase required by one or more companies is now coming! The Federal Minister for Economic Affairs has to examine, on its own initiative, whether the price or price increase requested is due to an unjustified price policy of one or more companies. In addition, the second paragraph states: If the unwarranted price policy is established, it will have to set an official price for the duration of six months, i.e. an officially regulated price. - Quote. I'm telling you, that's quite simple, this story. Just compare it with the other countries – we do it on our own with the Federal Competition Authority – and if you find that the price constellation is cheaper somewhere, we can talk about this story! Skill You don't, then let's say, save us these proposals, because they're actually not very practical. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Head: illegal!]] Mr Bucher, let us come to the proposals you mentioned. One you called modest, the other I would honestly consider whether they are so feasible. Point 1: Remove the tax increase? – To be honest, unlike other countries, we have not now had to increase taxes on the savings package. That is not foreseen. [[Abg. Scheibner: Because we already have her!]] I have already explained to you that we have not raised the mineral oil tax since 2007. We did this marginally. [[Abg. Bucher: What do you have?]] On the other hand, I also have to tell you that after the crisis – around 5 cents and 4 cents – or even in the crisis, you did not worry that VAT revenue was not as budgeted but went down. [[Abg. Bucher: In 2011 you raised them the last time!]] The same applies to mineral oil tax. The consumption was lower – the mineral oil tax is consumption-related – so the development was also lower. They didn't do any floats or anything else suggested to replace that. I believe that we are going exactly the right way: a difference that we still deserve tanks, but in international comparison quite in the better field. It's unpleasant to say, but we're not bad at tax.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e15384	Ladies and gentlemen, rallys on the gallery are strictly forbidden! I interrupt the meeting until peace and quiet are restored to the gallery.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e15415	At the gallery there is rest again, so I will resume the interrupted session. Please, Minister of State, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e15439	Ladies and gentlemen at the gallery, you have our sympathy, but probably not long when you are trying to win sympathy in this way! Mr Bucher, I almost have the impression that you have ordered these calls. I would really take back your proposal concerning a special dividend. Why? – We have a stock constellation at the OMV, according to which the federal government has 31 percent. It is a listed company. Faith You really think the state can prescribe a special dividend in this context? We probably even have the majority there with the IPIC, but do you think that the IPIC would call it positive for itself, if not it, but the Austrian state has a success? Do you know what the OMV dividend paid for? – Mr Bucher, hello! – Mr Bucher, the OMV paid a dividend of €93 million and last year the same. [[Abg. Bucher talks to Abg. Ing. Westenthaler.]] How do you take the word “record dividends ”? Where do you get this? There has also been a need for significant dividend benefits. Do you know what to do with this in recent years? – The debt the ÖIAG has had has been partially covered. So the state has nowhere created a basket money, but the state has partly needed it. [[Abg. Bucher: On the back of the pendlers!]] You also need to see the relationships. Let's say we make a special dividend in the order of 100 million €. Do you think that we can influence the whole proceeds from the mineral oil tax, which is 4 billion or 4.2 billion, in such a way that the problem is solved? I would strongly recommend that you withdraw this proposal. He is, in fact, unworthy of a party that intervenes in the market economy and thus has legal knowledge. Unfortunately, your second proposal goes in the same direction. Is the problem that, as far as they are at all available, or can't open federal gas stations so easily, you didn't notice? [[Abg. Dr. Strutz: But it works in Carinthia!]] In this context, it is also necessary to take into account the staff who take into account the localities. [[Abg. Dr. Strutz: It works in Carinthia!]] – We could discuss Carinthia separately, Mr colleague, there is a lot not working as you would have liked. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Strutz: We have a lower price because of the competition!]] [[Abg. Grosz: Burgenland!]] – Yes, Mr Grosz, Burgenland, everything. Just a short while, I'll be ready. – This proposal is simply anticompetitive. You will lose any complaint if we recommend it. The state recommends that the country's gas stations open, without taking into account what personnel costs are going to be, that local costs are reached, that they simply compete with the other market – as you will have a problem. [[Abg. Bucher talks to Abg the other day. Ing. Westenthaler.]] Mr Bucher, I know it is kind of upsetting you that the question is not quite going on. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the ÖVP.]] A country has done this, namely Indonesia, and the disadvantages were then corresponding competition problems. [[Abg. Grosz: This is a urgent request, not a request!]] – Nevertheless, you will be allowed to comment on the content. I also have a few minutes of speaking time to my knowledge. I come to the next proposal, to the example of Luxembourg's model. – This is not a market-economy proposal, which is a model that can only be implemented in a very small country with a rather rich background. In Luxembourg there are 200 gas stations, 15 importers – 73 in Austria – and these 15 importers have entered into a contract with the State. There is really a kind of floating and also a constellation that the tax is also taken back there and there if the price evolution is designed accordingly. Do you think we can take this into a market that is relatively versatile? Look You're looking at the differences with us: You're marginal! That means I wouldn't necessarily recommend you to implement this model. They also mentioned Slovenia. In Slovenia there are price regulations – but the price is marginally cheaper with us. I'm just asking you one thing: Why, ladies and gentlemen, has no other country in Europe adopted the Luxembourg model? And why does no other country except Slovenia have an official or even price regulation? - Because this has not proved to be the case. I come to something that sounds more positive, but not to They are compatible, but to represent my objectivity: the introduction of a kilometre-dependent pendulum deposit with a negative tax component instead of a pendulum fee. – I think this is an interesting proposal. One has to discuss this because, of course, the one who is socially improved has more advantages. Fifth proposal: the price of fuel prices at the gas stations is only higher at two point points. – Did you really think about it? I know that, this is a proposal from the ARBÖ. The problem is: If this third point is lost, then what is going to happen in practice? To rounds or rounds? [[Abg. New builder: To round up!]] - Right, to rounds. And roundings are exactly the wrong way, so we want to stay at three positions. That's an advantage. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Now, Mr Bucher, if your interest in the subject is really so great, I come to some positive proposals, as I believe. An international problem can only be solved internationally. Therefore, it is positive that the G 20 also dealt with the subject at the last conference and also the EU. It is only where market abuse is detected where antitrust procedures are detected that, if one documents before, one can also counter them accordingly. However, I believe that this has also been slow at EU level. This is about certain elements, such as databases such as EMIR and other directives on derivative schemes. I think that is an important point. That is why I come to the level you did not want to hear from, because you have not asked a question about this. What's in Austria? . I believe that in Austria we have already made quite clear proposals with competition law, which also work. We've developed the stand rules. Prices are changed up once a day, otherwise not. This has been a good thing for the market. Secondly, we have first and foremost introduced the spray price database, and in this respect I also hear: Yes, yes, is good for the consumer, but it also looks at the market, competition, like prices. – This is wrong, for the following reason, in my opinion: If you ask, the nearest ten gas stations and the five cheapest are called. That doesn't help a chain, you have to do more to benefit from it. That's what it used to be: We have seen how prices are competitive. In the final effect, this measure helps consumers in particular. Next point: We have developed a new constellation in competition law with much stronger information requirements, which the competition authority you mentioned has reached. I believe that is also the right thing to do and that we can solve the problem with more competition and not with more price regulation. Finally, and with that I am at the end of my presentation today, I should like to say that I think we have actually discussed the wrong thing. It's unpleasant when prices go up, it's unpleasant if we don't have the right thing in our hands – it's an illusion to believe the state could do that – but, ladies and gentlemen, I think it's a utopian idea if we believe that fuel prices will sink again. Therefore, our entire orientation must go in a different direction. We need to see that we reduce the dependence on fossil raw materials, that we go towards modern drive systems such as e-mobility, that we reduce consumption accordingly, that we – as I agree with you – increase the public network cost-effectively and promote other modalities in the area. That'll be the right countercontrol, I'm on your side. I think that this issue is too serious to be debated here, who is to blame, who is controlling, and who is taking off. The State plays its role, the VAT is regulated by a directive. You cannot simply change the 20 percent rule at any time. That's a directive, it's got to be 20 percent. I therefore believe that we are taking serious action in this area, that we are doing everything we can to stimulate competition, that the real solution will be in the area of energy efficiency and alternative systems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e15594	We are going into the debate. I would draw attention to the fact that the speaking time of all the following speakers must not exceed 10 minutes and that the overall speaking time per group is 25 minutes. First of all, Mr Ing. Westenthaler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e15629	Madam President. Mr. Mineral Oil Minister! Now you have taken 20 minutes to explain to us – really to explain – what everything is not going on, and you have forgotten that not only are people in front of the screens, but at all throughout Austria, who no longer know because of the height of the spray prices – perhaps you have the goodness and grace to listen to me; I have also listened very attentively to you, Mr. Minister. [[Call the ÖVP:Excellent! And you didn't understand!]] [[Call the BZÖ – towards the Federal Minister Dr. Mitterlehner –:You can't even listen now! Minister, listen]] [[New calls to the BZÖ.]] You have now explained to people for 20 minutes how something does not work, and as a minister of a federal government responsible for the people, you have actually had the obligation to explain how we finally get these seed prices down. That would have been your job, Minister. [[BZÖ and Abg. Dr. Strutz.]] You always pick it up. In the meantime, the roles are quite clear: Now, with Mrs Fekter, we have a banking minister representing the interests of the banks in this government; now we also have a declared mineral oil mutilation minister representing the interests of the multis, the billionaire, the Abcasher, the multiboni-mediated manager. [[Interoperability call at the BZÖ]] That's a wonderful announcement, Minister. This is not your job, you should represent the interests of the damaged drivers! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] That would be your job, Minister! And you would have the opportunity. Don't pretend you don't have the opportunity! Push You don't have the responsibility away all the time! People can't hear it again, Mr. Minister! The other ones are always to blame: The price of crude oil in any country is due, the biodiesel and the bio-sprit are due to the increase in cereal prices and Japan to the increase in energy prices. – Everything and everyone in this world is to blame, not just the government, knowing for themselves that it takes half of the price for a liter of petrol from taxes and collects taxes from the drivers when tanking. You know that, and you can't discuss that away, Minister. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Then, Minister, come here and say: The opening of the national gas stations – how did you say? – be not at all possible under competition law, that is not at all possible. – Mr Minister, I can remind you that this House was on 12 November. September 2008 with the voice of the SPÖ, the ÖVP, the Free and the BZÖ, against the votes of the Greens, has already decided – I have taken it here – that the Land Tanks Offices will be opened? [[Interference of Federal Minister Dr. Mitterlehner.]] Do not spread sand to Parliament here! Her own party has once decided, namely not so long ago, in 2008. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grosz.]] Then, Minister, say this with the official price arrangement. You always have the same arguments. They don't know how to get down with the fuel prices, but they come up with death-beat arguments like: Wuhu, you are an economic-liberal party; yes, how is it that you are demanding an official price scheme? Mr Minister, I tell you the following: At the current level of the spray prices of €1.6 – the trend is rising to €2; this already stands out – it is going to be the attitude of the liberal market economy, as you understand it, to exploit the people and to look away as politicians and to put their hands in the lap three times! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I am very clear to you, because as a politician, we are not there to look away, to seek out statements that lie abroad, but we have been elected to solve the problems of the people. And one of the most important problems is at the moment this overly high spray price, which is simply unacceptable. I don't know, maybe that's a statement. Don't be angry with me, but this has already come over quite a bit like you from the government bank towards the people. Have delivered your explanations! [[Interference of Federal Minister Dr. Mitterlehner.]] I can only explain this to myself, Mr Minister, that you probably don't have to experience the tank boycott tomorrow, because your driver is drinking with the van anyway and therefore you don't have the problem that you have to pay €1.6 per litre of petrol, and you don't have the problem that you don't get a penalty. [[Federal Minister Dr. Mitterlehner: This is quite a polemic!]] You do not have the problem, Mr Minister, because you do not have to pay for it. [[New interim remark by Federal Minister Dr. Mitterlehner.]] I suggest you: Take three cameras, drive to a gas station and don't refuel tomorrow! This would also save the taxpayer money. That might be a possibility. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Federal Minister Dr. Mitterlehner: This is so polemic!]] Mr Minister, why don't you say anything – and now I look at the SPÖ – about social justice? What about the 1.8 million counterparts? You didn't say anything about this, Mr. Minister. 1.8 million Pendlers! Do you know, Mr. Minister, that every second donor does not get to enjoy the shuttle fee – and that for years? Many do not benefit from the penalty because, as you know, the shuttle fee is charged over the tax and simply cannot claim it if those who have the least of the €11 000 limit are not entitled to a penalty. [[Interference of Federal Minister Dr. Mitterlehner.]] That is why the system in force in the Pendler Pauschale is unfair, unsocial and changing, Mr Minister. You should have said that today! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Federal Minister Dr. Mitterlehner: just don't listen, because I didn't!]] You should have made yourself here today and said: Yes, this system is unfair, and I will submit a draft to you within the next few days, where this unjust system of the pendulum deposit, in which every second pendulum looks through your fingers, is replaced by a real kilometre money for every drive to and from work! – That would have been a good solution! That is what we are calling for, and we would support it, Mr Minister. [[BZÖ and Abg. Bitch.]] But you would not have solved all the problems either, for what is socially just by the following example – again SPÖ, social justice –: A mother has to bring her children to school, she also has to drive to the doctor, and she depends on the car because she lives in the country and has to return some kilometers because she has to go shopping because she may get away from one of the close-up suppliers through the savings package, perhaps the post has been closed or a district court is no longer present in the future. Since you delete the people's supply, but if they then need more mobility, then cut in massively, then don't help them if they depend on the car. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Worm.]] [[Abg. Grosz: The rural area!]] – This is an injustice that affects the socially weak, the families and the women in particular, and that is why we firmly reject the fact that this is the wrong place to be saved! [[BZÖ and Abg. Bitch.]] One last aspect, Mr Minister: heating, this is also about energy. 250 000 households have not been able to afford heating this winter. Do you know how these people house? – They sit in their apartment with gloves, with winter coats, with hoods, because they don’t have enough money to afford the heating at all. [[Interoperability call at the BZÖ]] 250,000 households! You have to imagine that! [[Call the ÖVP: Please!]] – That is not what we are saying, the Chamber of Labour has announced, Mr. Colleague, and it has raised it. [[Call the ÖVP: Please!]] And that's where you just pass, you know that there, too, the energy price increases are massive. We looked at this: Energy costs for electricity, mobility and, ultimately, heating have increased by an average of € 5 000 per year over the last seven years. 5 000 € in addition! [[Inter-call at BZÖ.]] Now let me tell you who is actually going to do this in this country! But you say: We do not have to lay the craftsmanship for the oil and energy crops! I say: They're supposed to deliver! The joys of winnings each year. In the last six years alone, the OMV has gained €8 billion in profit – €8 billion in six years – and you say that they don't have to help, although you as a state are involved with over 30 percent, and you say that a dividend is not possible?- Oh, my God! They should finally contribute to the savings package! This is also a contribution to the culture so that you can not only abcassate, but at last also put money on the table and help people, Minister! – That would have been the task you have here! [[I should like to congratulate Mr Strache and Mr Strutz.]] Mr Minister, we are not going to do this, and we are going to be very much opposed to it. We will fight this system of sluggishing in the spray quite massively. You can decide whether you are on the side of the people or on the side of the mineral oil mafia, which in part carries out criminal pricing that is unacceptable. You have the choice, you can choose it. We invite you to go the way with us, to implement the demands we have made. Stop saying all the time: I can't, I don't know how it is, or I can't! We want to know from you how it is. Take up the demands of the BZÖ, Mr Bucher! Then we also manage to force the mineral oil mafia to the knees and lower the spray price for the people, so that it is just and easy to wear.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e15928	Mr Matznetter has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e15952	Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! Mr Federal Minister, you are lucky that the opposition does not also require you to guarantee the beautiful weather by decree. [[Interim calls at BZÖ and FPÖ.]] This would also have savings, because whenever the sun shines, we need less energy. That is about at the level of such applications. Let's go to the individual points! They deny the facts, refuse to deal with them. You can only try through repetition to make it clear to you. The Federal Minister has pointed out that we already have on average lower fuel costs than the EU average. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Strutz.]] For decades it has been said that our fuel prices must be higher than the others because of the so-called Alpine surcharge. In particular, the measures taken by the Federal Government have resulted in the net price of diesel fuel being below the EU average by 3.65 cents per litre today, and in the case of Eurodiesel it is 4.76 cents. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bucher.]] The fact is: We have calculated cheaper spray prices – without taxes, net – than in the rest of Europe. Why? – Because we have taken very reasonable measures. [[Abg. Strache: You said it: without taxes!]] - Without taxes. Klubobmann Strache also wants to know with taxes: At the gross price, we are – no, no, no, wrong, wrong – €0,667 per litre for the diesel at the gross price below the average of the European Union. [[Further calls to the FPÖ]] Under the average! After: But that's 67 cents that we're cheaper than the cut in Europe. [[Interim calls at BZÖ and FPÖ.]] Why do we have these successes? First of all: As the Federal Minister has already said, we have decided on a very reasonable measure in this House that increases may only take place at 12 noon. This enables the consumer to be safe: If he sees a price at five after twelve, then the price applies until the next day. [[call to the FPÖ.]] That means he can be sure that the price can only be lower and not higher at this gas station. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Strutz.]] We just made a new regulation: In the E-Control, there is a database in which the consumer can access the cheapest gas stations at any time – with the help of ÖAMTC and ARBÖ also online. And that's what people do. This ensures appropriate competition. [[call to the FPÖ.]] So now our polit commissioner, Bucher, is coming and wants to introduce a price arrangement à la Soviet Union with us. [[Abg. Bookbooker: Luxembourg! Luxembourg! Luxembourg!]] [[Further calls to the BZÖ.]] What's it supposed to be? What is he supposed to do? Well, what would be appropriate for the BZÖ? Please make suggestions! – 1 € per litre of diesel, or, 5a-price-law? – Yes, Mr Westenthaler, please, how much? - 1 €? [[Interlocutory calls from Members Bucher and Ing. Westenthaler.]] How much? 1 € or 80 cents, what should it be? – 80 cents, Bucher offers 80 cents, good. [[New calls from Members Bucher and Ing. Westenthaler.]] [[Further calls to the BZÖ.]] Mr. Federal Minister, you order that a maximum of 80 cents be paid for each gas station for a litre of diesel from now on. This will really be a savings for the commuters. You know why? – Then there is no more diesel to sell, because no mineral oil company will fill you with 80 cents of diesel in the car! Very cheap, you then have an empty column. [[Abg. Grosz: Mr. Tax Advisor! How high is the mineral oil tax?]] This leads to the same effect that the planned economy in the Soviet Union has led to the end that people have an orderly benefit, but the problem is as follows: [[Abg. Grosz: How high is the mineral oil tax?]] [[Abg. Grosz: How high is the mineral oil tax?]] Unfortunately, the shelves and the taps are empty. – Super proposal from BZÖ! I don't know if there's another Muhri board at the KPÖ; Mr. Klubobmann Bucher would be a candidate for such a one. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bitch.]] [[Abg. Grosz: What is a Muhri?]] But now back to what you really can do. The main problem we have – and I think Mitterlehner has given the right clue – is: We have an international price development that is just – Na, a long-standing KPÖ party leader! [[Call: Muhri]] Aha, the Grosz wants the plaque! Please: a small Communist Plan Economic Award for the Grosz Member, here the request, and the Bucher Member He's already got her! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grosz.]] Bravo, colleague Bucher already wears the KPÖ medal. Congratulations on these approaches of a liberal party and their implementation into reality. Come back to what we could really do. [[Abg. Grosz: The Victor Adler Plaket!]] – Look, look, look, the Grosz is preoccupied with the booker, the competition for this is getting more! In this sense: Let's get to the point of what we really could do instead of going to the government, you could be involved in those measures that would really bring something. [[Abg. Grosz: I'm just saying, belt tighter!]] [[Abg. Grosz: Use 40 days of fasting!]] We have an international speculation on raw materials, not just oil, but on a number of goods. With oil it is so that the main beneficiaries are all those who have oil in the ground, that is, the oil sheikhs of this world. The €2.5 billion profit of the OMV – I think you have already pointed this out – is actually the profit of that share of our OMV, which is reasonably oil sheikh. Then: In fact, through good purchases, especially in Romania, it has ensured a substantial access to oil stocks that make them profitable today – also in the interest of our taxpayers, because 31 percent of the wealth belongs to us as the state of Austria and thus all Austrians. But this added value – because 100 dollars and 120 dollars per barrel can be paid – is not regulated by Mid-leashers. And even if he makes a head position: The price won't fall! If you wear your Taferl with “genuity paid!” – the KPÖ’s Muhri Prize – that doesn’t change this. You would then have to end speculation in the world, you would have to implement alternatives to fossil fuel – we will have to talk about it too – and only then will there be no such huge speculation. The contribution may be: Financial transaction tax, regulation of financial markets, restriction of the possibilities to speculate globally – but we will discuss this once the Financial Committee has been presented. Finally, I congratulate the new Plan Economic Prize for the BZÖ. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e16197	The next item is the speech by Mr Haubner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e16218	Madam President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, Dear ladies and gentlemen! It is certain that the price trend at the spray prices is not necessarily satisfactory. Consumers suffer and, of course, the economy is suffering, but we cannot act as if we could decouple ourselves from international developments. Austria is not the island of the Blessed Ones, on which we can simply set a spring price that is acceptable to us. We must therefore make sure that we also have the relevant framework conditions in this international competition. Ladies and gentlemen, we have heard it today; the Minister has explained it in a very competent and detailed manner what it is all about. I think that's exactly where we have economic competence on the one hand and populist competence on the other – we have to distinguish very clearly! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Let's take a look at the topic from the other side! – We have 2 600 gas stations in Austria. One third of them are family-owned; these are real family entrepreneurs, who pay heavy taxes on the one hand, and on the other hand, 7 000 people are employed, creating 7 000 jobs. It does not help if we are insecure these companies, but it is about supporting them. With the BZÖ proposal that we should make a boycott of the gas stations tomorrow, we certainly do not support these companies, but risk the jobs in these companies, ladies and gentlemen! We should be a little careful. [[Interlocutory calls from Deputies Ing. Westenthaler and Dolinschek.]] Mr Bucher, because the BZÖ is always playing as a savior of SMEs and in this respect is always in favour of SMEs, I would ask you not to call out such anti-SMEs measures as a gas station boycott! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Inter-call at BZÖ.]] Actually, I have to ask you: What is the policy for Are you? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dolinschek.]] In your party program – if I read it there, I see that – it says: the liberal economic party. But today you are talking about price regulation – and I think that is exactly the opposite. In this sense, therefore, the question: What do you stand for: Plan economy, economic policy, liberal? – You have to decide at some point, I think, because somehow this reminds me a little of the cheerful professional advice at Robert Lembke. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ursula Haubner]] He always asked: Which piggy would S'denn like? And so is the policy at BZÖ: once social justice, once a plan economy, once a liberal economic policy – I think that does not work in this respect. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But you have to decide for yourself what you stand for. Unfortunately, I can't serve you with this. Back to policy! Minister Mitterlehner has already done this: 15 countries in Europe have a higher spray price. This should not satisfy us, quite the contrary, it is a really demanding situation before which we stand, but as a small country Austria we have a world market share of 0.3 percent, since can we do not expect to set the prices now. That's not in the sense of the whole thing. We have international framework conditions such as the crude oil market price on the world market in conjunction with the weak euro/dollar price. We have international crises. Eir have the oil embargo against Iran. These are all conditions which lead to this high spray price in the final analysis. Ladies and gentlemen! I think we should be careful with such a boycott call, because it is also directed against the entrepreneurs, against the gas station operators who are really fighting with all their efforts on a hard market and who are really trying to care for the customers and secure the jobs of their employees in these companies. I think we have to make sure we don't completely spill the whole water. Ladies and gentlemen, we need to discuss the issue of high fuels at EU level and at international level and work towards EU-wide measures. And the Minister said it: We will not be able to frustrate the spray consumption if we always talk about spray and fossil energy, but we need alternative new technologies. That's where the road has to lead. I think we agree that we can also find a partnership here in Parliament for this path. Let's see that we're going new ways, and let's see that we don't hinder our gas station owners in their daily work!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e16333	Mr Dr. Strutz has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e16355	Madam President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! What we have experienced here in the last minutes was really the arrogance of power that has spoken here in the person of Mr Mitterlehner's Minister of Economic Affairs and in the person of Mr Matznetter, who has just made fun of the legitimate concerns of the opposition parties, the legitimate concerns and concerns of the Austrians that they can no longer deal with this tax burden on Austrian drivers via the mineral oil tax. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It is quite unacceptable to go out here, Minister of Economic Affairs, and to put forward an argument for every action we have called for, which we can easily disprove you, and to talk about international development. Yes, of course, every excuse of the mineral oil companies is valid in order to raise the spray price and write plenty of profits. Once it is the Libya crisis that had to stand for a price increase because it was said that the oil in Libya is currently not available. – Yes, the oil sources have been bubbling for weeks! For weeks and months, Libya's oil has been available to European companies, for which OMV is available again! Yes, have you heard that there has been a reduction in prices? Of course not! When it comes to sinking, the mineral oil companies are in the same position, then it is international development – when it comes to mitigating the price burden, but it is not passed on. When you get out and say: We are proud, we are at the European average!, then I can only say: That means that half of the European countries have lower petrol prices and pay less than we do in Austria! They say simply to open the land filling stations, that was not a problem. Colleagues from Carinthia! We have opened the national gas stations in Carinthia, because we do not need to implement the personnel costs. And what happened? – Competition, Mr Minister, has taken place, and in the area of the Land gas stations the spray price has gone down! – That’s the truth! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] What we have lived here in Carinthia, what the Burgenland has taken over, we can do for all of Austria! One thing I do not quite understand, because I have seen my colleagues from Carinthia who have applauded the Minister for Economic Affairs: He defends the system of desulphurization, he defends the robbery at the gas stations, he does not realize that we need acute action – and the SPÖ Carinthia, colleague köfer, she claps in this defense and at the same time says that the federal government should control the spray prices!Unknown term type: "%s".? Last night's broadcast, I'll read to you: SPÖ calls on the Federal Government to act on high fuel prices. Because the high spray prices of Carinthia's workers and counterparts were increasing, the SPÖ party board called for a temporary limited official spray price control yesterday. - Quote. I am now very excited to see the representatives of the SPÖ Carinthia, the woman who is sitting on the board of directors, as you will vote on the initiative of the BZÖ, which will bring in the liberals, where we demand nothing but that the law be implemented! Minister of Economic Affairs, I need to correct you. You have quoted the Price Act, but you have left something very important in your quote of § 5a. That's what it says: ‘If an investigation () shows that the price or price increase is due to an unjustified price policy, and has adverse effects on the economy, the Federal Minister for Economic Affairs shall determine a maximum price for the duration of six months.’ And now I'm telling you: With these daily rising prices of petrol, yes to this price increase, which takes place daily at the taps, I can only say: That is where the economic disadvantage has been demonstrated! Apparently you're the only one who can't understand that. [[Complaints with FPÖ and BZÖ.]] I've already quoted the famous Semmel today, and I can tell you: It is a rigorous economic damage, because every product transported in Austria in the car, in the truck, is affected by it. Of course, the spray price directly affects the semi-cooks, on the pastries, on the transport goods. That is why we need an acute action here, Mr Minister. And that is why we ask you to finally have this price stop for the law, which is in the constitutional rank, or finally to act on the semi-stated OMV. These are the headlines of today The oil multitis on record course. [[The speaker keeps newspaper clippings up]] Up to 54 percent more profits. – Do you know what that means? While all Austrians must tighten the belt, while the small pensioners do not know how to pay the fuel oil, the profits of the companies are 54 percent more than in recent years. Or: The most expensive chiefs approve of the OMV. – The Federal Government is responsible for this! 12.2 million €, 2.3 million per head, 19 percent more than in Year 2009! These are the managers who disassemble, the managers who benefit from this system, which you make the wall. That must be done! Support the measures of the opposition, and finally stand on the side of the Austrians!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e16464	Mr Bundesminister Dr. Mitterlehner spoke. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e16496	Mr Commissioner, he is reporting because I do not like to simply leave false facts in the room. [[Abg. Booker: You have to leave false facts!]] I would like to say the following: You now have this § 5a para. 2 quoted and said: If there are economic effects, I have to do so. I'll read to you: ‘An investigation in accordance with paragraph (b) of this Article shall be carried out: 1 that the price or price increase is due to an unjustified price policy and” – and! – ‘this has a negative impact on the economy ()’. Mr President, both aspects must be taken into account, namely the fact that there must be a price trend above the European average in the first paragraph, and the second aspect of the need to identify a negative trend in the economy. [[Abg. Dr. Strutz: But this is here, Minister!]] The first factor has not been established! [[Abg. Dr. Strutz: Please, don't defend this system, Minister!]] Second. I know you don't like it if you're not right. I didn't mean to say it, but because you repeated it, I have to say it. Mr Westenthaler said that we would have voted by a large majority in favour of opening the gas stations. There may be another request, but what we have here is a request from September 2008: The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Bucher, Mr Kuzdas, Mr Kuzdas, on the subject of examination – that is a difference! – the legal possibility for the opening of ASFINAG gas stations by the Federal Minister for Transport, Innovation and Technology. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: What did the exam do?]] The test has shown that it has not been opened because it is not permitted. [[Abg. Grosz: Bravo! You haven't checked at all! You've taken the request and put it in the dunk! That's your policy!]] Mr Grosz, listen to something else. You can read what I mentioned before. [[Abg. Grosz: What you call exam, other papers say about it!]] [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] Can you listen?Unknown term type: "%s".? Then maybe some of the words would not be spoken. But listen properly! It's not heard, it's not understood. I can quote you from an OGH judgment, from an OGH judgment concerning the opening of the Land gas stations in Burgenland. The OGH notes – I quote – that: “The Senate prohibited this” – i.e. the sale under the price of income – “because the use of the infrastructure dedicated to public use without any public service advantage and exclusively for the purposes of price undercutting is a (disadvantaged) distortion of competition vis-à-vis providers who do not have this possibility at their disposal.” Ladies and gentlemen, in this case it is not about who is right and who is wrong, but about: What has been found here? And if you read this, then I would simply ask you to make it clear that this proposal is probably not a more comfortable and not an appropriate implementation proposal to move down the price trend. [[Abg. Dr. Strutz: But why does it work in Carinthia and Burgenland? Why does it work there?]] I am happy to be ready for a dialogue in a further direction. But not always! I hope that doesn't bring the next one back. Not always the wrong one!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e16639	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Kogler.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e16700	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! This is a good opportunity to reflect a few basic things. My God, the current fuel price – yesterday, tomorrow! Look, everyone who claims that the oil will get cheaper sometime again is either a complete stupid head or a charlatan, which is by no means non-branch, or simply and gripping a simple liar. [[Abg. Grosz: Were you drinking today?]] That's possible, too. [[Abg. Grosz: Which gas station were you at, Mr Kogler?]] Yes, and the fuel price will be on the whole and on the average not to decouple from the crude oil price, on the contrary: By continuing to rise exorbitantly – I will still predict why this has to be so – the share of the raw material in the final product will be increasing. That'll be it. That means, in fact, it's really something else. For whole economies, it is about getting out of the dependence on the drug oil, getting out of the mobility system, and, of course, it is about offering alternatives – and that is the task of economic and transport policy. After all, politics is there to shape things and not to let them drift. But those who claim that the Austrian Federal Government will influence the price of crude oil in the long term are really at home on any other planet. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Strache: However, we have an influence on the mineral oil tax! That's what it's all about! We have an influence on our taxes!]] Mr Strache. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, for his excellent report. [[Abg. Strache: We have an influence on the tax burden that is exerted by the citizens!]] It must be clear to her first. Of course, the tax component also plays a role, but it will play an ever smaller role because the raw product is becoming increasingly expensive. It must even enter into a not quite so intelligent head. That's essential, and that's why you can't start taking care of the alternatives in time. And this has been a great deal of success for the people. [[Abg. Strache: The Federal Minister is pleased when prices rise because he has more tax revenue!]] [[Federal Minister Dr. Mitterlehner: The tax is quantity-related; it does not rise, it remains the same, even if the price is high!]] Mr. Federal Minister, this is pointless. As far as this is concerned, you should not continue to have black and blue dreams, because at least in the areas where economic policy reason is required, you will find no customers there. That's what you argued earlier. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Strache: The Greens finally enforced their demand for a litre of petrol in the direction of 25 Schilling! That's crazy!]] On the question of this price trend, which can only logically go in one direction: I would like to say once again what this is for a national economic damage to us, which is caused by non-politics, but elsewhere, not by turning at the control screw, at the wrong place, but because the alternatives are too little persecuted, too little offered and the systems are too little changed. Of course, we need a conversion of the industry and the mobility society, and we need to relocate in the area. Status quo is, depending on year and economic development: Between € 12 billion and € 15 billion, as we will soon be, we have pure import costs for fossil energy sources in Austria. There is, of course, oil in there. And these costs will continue to rise. In just a few years per capita in Austria, we will spend €2,000 on importing this air conditioner, which is still being burned to the climate. This is what the economy is doing here for alternatives. In a few years, it will be €3 000 per capita, because this will produce price developments if we do not counter them – and that is tax policy. Well, that's the best sense of the term. So: Reducing dependencies. Just, how do you do that? Of course, we have to offer alternatives here, and these are primarily in public transport, which are, in the second place, quite reasonable spatial planning, which is, of course, longer-term, and can also be found in a regional labour market policy. And thirdly, one must also say the truth that we cannot maintain the full infrastructure in every last valley as in a large center. These are truths that you will have to speak. It is not always everyone's claim to be traded to and from every second at every corner in Austria as cheaply as possible. This is neither possible nor useful. And that should be said once, and then there is something done where politics can be a little meaningful. And there is indeed enough. Let's start with the wrong investments! As before – we have already had it elsewhere today – many billions are still being put into motorway construction in quite a few years. This is wrong because it promotes the wrong transport system. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It is quite clear that those who are constantly sowing motorway kilometres will reap stinking traffic. This is a logical wisdom. Apart from the fact that Austria is Europe and the world's top in terms of motorway kilometres per head. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steibl.]] - Yeah, I'll be right there. We have a lot of investment in areas where we wonder if this is happening, but where we would need it, we can look for it with the magnifying glass. If I look at how the railway expansion in Austria is going to take place, then you can only observe it on the West Railway until now – and there are a few local transport centres that work quite well, such as Vorarlberg and a few large spaces. But big modo, if you take Switzerland as a model, we are here very, very far back. But at the motorway kilometres, we're the world's top. There is a single country in Europe – I think we already have it today – which has a few kilometres more per nose: That's Greece. To congratulations! So, the completely wrong infrastructure comes before the economic case. This is not even so far from the point of view. We need the billions somewhere else. No one says that we should not invest – quite the contrary! – it needs to be invested more and in the right systems. Furthermore, motorized individual traffic in the area outside will still have sufficient importance. That's not a question at all. We only need to get him on the road better, in the truest sense of the word, with combustion engines with much less consumption. It's technical, it would be much more possible. But at the moment we really have the oil mult, which still block the breakthrough of those technologies, in a large style, which allows you to travel the routes with three, four liters or perhaps even less, but with the same high performance. There would be much more inside. But other drive systems will of course come. No question! Only: The sooner we get into this system, the better it will be because it saves billions of people in Russian space and the Middle East. We have these dependencies, and they belong. That is why an investment decision that meets ecological and social criteria is so important – social criteria because it brings people out of dependence. In this regard, there is a complete misunderstanding where we differ from a Mr. Westenthaler, for: We cannot organise social policy at the tap, not even at the socket, but we need fair and reasonable prices! But they only come about by reflecting on environmental costs. But we need, if we are already talking about tax reduction – and now we are exactly on the chapter, and we are very much in favour of it – a tax reduction where we are the world's peak. This is the case with labour costs, and this is also true of income in the professional and commercial sectors. There is Austria World Summit – not at the mineral oil tax! We need to get down there. This is the task of a large ecological, and in this sense also economic recontrol. We shouldn't be turning around where we're actually back anyway. What do you think, why do all of you come to Austria? – Austria is also a transit country. The trucks, which donate across Europe, have a goal: to refuel in Austria. In any case, this is included because it is cheaper for us than elsewhere. Stop fogging that all the time in this way! But I am not talking about the need to change our tax system. Only: In what place? – Where exactly economic damage and gross damage arise?- Oh, my God! Where labour costs are too high?- Oh, my God! But that we will have to take any taxes, even you will have to see with your “genuity!” at some point, because constantly saying that everything in the tax area always has to be reduced, but keeping back relative to the expenditure proposals will not go to the long term either. You have forgotten this in your list, Minister of Economic Affairs, when you wanted to demonstrate the BZÖ's economic competence. I do not want to agree, but that would have been an argument that this voodoo economy from somewhere, from the Wörthersee or from elsewhere would simply be rejected: that fewer and fewer taxes would automatically lead to an ever better life in this country! You have to say at last how you want to do this, and not get yourself into the foglight. So also an opposition has the task of saying something reasonable from time to time.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e16860	Mr Scheibner is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e16882	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Kogler, it is right, even the opposition can, should and may say something reasonable. The problem is that we should already be aware of who we have to represent here. And one realizes that the population in Austria has enough of theories and failed speeches, which is all good for this country and for the environment, but it always has to pay for it. [[OBJECTIVES]] Where are the experts? That reminded me now, and I have to say: Much of what you said here is perfectly right: Errors in space planning, the disunity of living, work, shopping, leisure, which has led to more and more traffic need, closure of secondary stations et cetera. You can discuss all of this, that's all right. We know all the studies of experts who first talked to the people: Turns from petrol to diesel, because this is more environmentally friendly and cheaper! Now that people have done it, they have bought the more expensive vehicles. But a few years later, it said: Well, the diesel is a burden on the environment much more than petrol! We're going to tax this higher now. But those who have trusted what the experts have said must pay. Biosprit: All of us still in the ear! – Yes, important, reduce the dependence on the oil multis! Very important: Mixing bioprite is good for the environment and also for the economy! – Value added, yes! [[Abg. Bayer: Value added!]] But the customers, the drivers, have to pay it because the fuel price has, of course, been raised by it. Now you're saying, After such nonsense with the bioprite, a disaster worldwide, because now only more oil seeds are being grown instead of growing food! [[Abg. That's how it is!]] It must go completely in the other direction! And everything will get even more expensive. Ladies and gentlemen, all the possible experts come and talk well, they eventually rebutt their opinions themselves, but in the end all this pays for the people, paying all this to the population. And she's got enough of it now. That would also be important, ladies and gentlemen, and also Mr Federal Minister. You're a little blatant today, I think, but somehow you could say something about it. Maybe you can't, it's okay, but you don't need to break down the opposition if we at least try to influence this price spiral in the other direction. It must also be your interest that people pay less for the sprit and no more. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. That's the way it should be!]] Mr Haubner, because of our statement that we should not be getting drunk, is concerned that the gas station owners will be asked to cash. – One has to support the gas station owners, but there is another where it is about the margins they get dictated by the oil multis, because they make the profit with the spray and not the gas station tenants, who earn only more with the by-products, with the food et cetera. We all go to the gas stations tomorrow to buy food and not to drink. This is good for the gas station owners and is also a clear signal to the oil multis. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] But it was quite exciting what has been said here. The colleague Matznetter – where is he?; he's gone again, sorry! Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, your colleague Matznetter has accused us of asking us, including the FPÖ, for a price check and has said that reminds him of the old KPÖ slogans. Muhri quoted here: Where are the Muhris? Mr Matznetter, in case you might see me on the TV screen because you asked where the Muhris are, who demand such a price fixing and control! - I'll tell you. There was a urgent request here at the Hohes Haus on the 12th. September 2008 on ‘The failure of Minister of Economic Affairs Bartenstein in the fight against inflation’. The most serious accusations have been made there, and there was the demand that the Minister of the prices should finally do something against the cost of food and energy, namely the fuel prices. This urgent question was raised by Mr Jarolim to the then Minister for Economic Affairs Bartenstein. [[Abg. Street: Jarolim, the Muhri of the SPÖ!]] Is that what you brought in, according to your colleague Matznetter von Muhri? But it's much better: In this debate, there was also a motion for a resolution – Muhri, look at that, would say Matznetter – and this motion for a resolution reads as follows: “The Federal Minister for Economic Affairs and Labour is invited to comply immediately with his constitutional obligation and to set maximum prices for fuels.” [[Oh, call at BZÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Look here!]] Ladies and gentlemen, a constitutional obligation for maximum price fixing! – Muhri, look at oba!, back to Matznetter. Who has tabled this motion for a resolution? – And I mean, you have to let that go, because that’s really interesting. – The petitioners were Deputies Ing. Westenthaler and Dr. Jarolim. [[Abg. The Muhris of Parliament!]] – A very interesting combination: Jarolim and Westenthaler for price fixing. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] But Mr Matznetter thinks it's Muhri Communism, what we're doing. Perhaps you should look into the archive, what your own group has asked for, and here not because the coalition is another and you are now in the corset, otherwise argue. Mr Minister, you said that was not the case, and you mentioned the price policy et cetera. But one thing is clear: that the drivers 30 billion €, ladies and gentlemen – a total of 30 billion €! – to contribute to the tax revenue. And these aren't always people who can choose whether they're using the car. We know that car traffic cannot always be replaced by public transport. And of course it's convenient to control it accordingly via mass taxes. If I take the extra wage costs, the income tax plus the taxes on mineral oils, then I come to a total of 80 percent tax if I want to drink a litre of spray at the tip. But one more argument, and that is what I am saying now as a foreign-political speaker, because you, Mr Minister of Economic Affairs, also referred to the international situation by saying: What can we do to ensure, for example, that there are crises in the Arab region and that the speculators, of course, screw up the oil price? [[Interference of Federal Minister Dr. Mitterlehner.]] - I'll give you the right thing. We can't do that alone! It would be interesting – and this would be more interesting for all colleagues, for foreign policy than for discussions on diplomat passports, so if one looked beyond the border of the plate here – to also work on energy strategy, to consider what is happening in some crises, why an Iraq crisis has begun, then by the Americans. Not because Mr Saddam Hussein had nuclear weapons or poison weapons – it turned out that it was wrong – but because one simply had economic interests, even oil interests. And the situation is worse today than before. The question is also why one has supported the uprising in Libya. No one is crying to Mr Saddam Hussein and to Gaddafi only a tear. But it should be like this: If one fights for human rights, then the situation should be better than before! But if you look at the situation in Libya today, there are still human rights violations: People are being driven out, tortured and murdered, only because they are different political opinions. But the oil companies – in this case the European, that is French – have again received their licenses which they would have lost because Mr Gaddafi wanted to grant them to China. They laugh, Mrs Colleague, but this is strategic energy policy and foreign policy, where we do not have a role to play. But within the European Union, we might be able to think a little bit of that sanctions, such as those against Iran, do nothing at all, except that the people there are being affected and that we have to pay higher fuel prices and the Chinese are happy to get cheaper fuel from the Iranians. This might also be a small contribution to a meaningful strategic energy policy.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e17029	Mrs Hakel's next speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e17050	Madam President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! You can't say it often enough, and that's why I say it again with all the clarity: No mass taxes are raised at this consolidation package! There is a need for effective measures, such as the removal of the speculation period for real estate, in order to mention only one example of the measures to ensure a fairer distribution in the long term. [[Inter-calls at the BZÖ.]] Rising spray costs are a theme that burns people under the nails. For people in rural regions in particular, the Sprit is one of the goods of daily needs. They all have no choice but to drive by car on a daily basis, as the offer of public transport is hardly available. I believe, ladies and gentlemen of the BZÖ, that these people would buy a price increase in the long-term public transport ticket, because compared to the fuel costs, it would be much cheaper and, above all, more manageable. Yeah, I'm also of the opinion that the spray price is too high. [[Ah-run at BZÖ.]] There are now two ways of politically trying to change or improve something in the sense of the many people who are unfortunately professional and family dependent on the car. The one would be the populist and unthinkable variant of how it has chosen the BZÖ, namely the demand for a reduction in the mineral oil tax. [[Abg. Grosz: What's the right thing?]] – I am not worried about that, Mr Grosz. Let me explain to you the following: In addition to the loss of revenue, this measure would in the long term do absolutely nothing to reduce the spray price. Price-forming for the spray price – and I am just counting a few key points now, Mr Grosz – are the developments on the raw material markets, the profits of oil multis, speculations and many other factors that we certainly cannot control with the reduction of mineral oil tax. So if your slogan is “genuinely paid! ” then stop demanding such things that ultimately cost taxpayers more than they bring them. And to hope that they won't understand anyway, but that they sound all the better for it, it really can't be. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: If you lower the tax, is that less for people?]] [[Further calls to the BZÖ.]] Mr Grosz, I now come to the second version: A sensible and serious measure would be the increase and ecologisation of the pendler and pendler payrolls. This, in turn, is contrary to your demand for a mile-dependent penalty amount, as deductions in tax law do not reduce the tax base, but are deducted directly from the calculated income or wage tax. More meaningful would therefore be a more reasonable form of environmental component, in order not to forget this, investment in public transport. And here I do not mean the construction of motorways in Lower Austria with the parallel closure of the secondary railways. Money must be used to keep every ÖBB line open, expand and make greater use of it. A discussion on the increase in the tax on mineral oil could then save us all. Again, for Mr Grosz: Mineral oil tax is not responsible for high fuel prices. Such argumentation would be simple and simply shortened. I do not want to dispute at all the problem of the development of fuel prices. But we have to admit that it depends on international developments and is not applicable to us. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bitch.]] Mr Strache, I do not want to abstain from a small example of the trade union vida: Public transport has an annual financial requirement of about €2.5 billion in Austria, which is covered on the one hand by tickets and on the other hand by state subsidies. One kilometer will be when you convert this amount to about 23 billion kilometers, 11 cents. With a car the bill would look different, because one kilometer comes on average to 32 cents by dividing the official mileage through the average capacity of a car. A departure from public transport to private cars would therefore mean a threefold reduction of costs for individuals and the state. That is why we continue to call for further expansion of public transport and, in addition, for those who depend on the car, for an ecologisation and an increase in the rate of commuting.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e17142	Mr Maij-Weggen (PPE). — (NL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur on his excellent report. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e17163	Madam President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! High house! The previous debate on this certainly exciting and exciting subject also shows the wide range of needs of measures, but also, of course, the wrong presentation of what is actually not. And what the BZÖ has made as a urgent request today, Mr Mitterlehner, the Federal Minister of the Interior, has been able to disprove and illustrate very impressively. The fact that we are constantly trying in Austria to achieve our goals of ecologicalisation on the one hand and on the other hand to obtain cheap spray prices for the many commuters on the other is, Mr Strache, obvious. There is nothing to do with yelling around and the arguments that the Federal Minister has tried to make to the Ing. Getting closer to Westenthal seems still not to have fruited. If you look at it objectively, you have to say: It is indeed true that current Austrian spray prices are below the EU average and the tax burden is also below the EU average. Now no one here says that they are not high, that is no question at all, and that everyone is trying to minimize these high spray prices, which are naturally burdened by our thousands of commuters in the country and that in-the-work driving in addition, with countermeasures. We should also bear in mind that, as Mr Kogler rightly said, these spray prices will not be reduced with high probability and we should consider, even in the light of the scarcity of these raw materials, investing in better immobility in the future and in much of what already exists. The Land gas stations have also been addressed. The Minister has rightly pointed out this, and, as Burgenländer, I know of course also about the land filling stations and the trick behind them, which unfortunately only led to the fact that the gas stations have brought an increase for the country, but unfortunately, overall the spray prices around these land filling stations did not fall to the desired extent. And I do not want to list the many problems that workers have had there – in terms of employment law, employment time and so on. But that's another subject. Who's this about? – It’s really about the many commuters. We are, of course, very affected, especially as Burgenländer. If I think that in Burgenland there are a total of 130 000 employees, 82,000 work in the country itself, and 48 000 commuting from the country, and most of them also depend on their own transport, namely the car and have to contend with the corresponding additional costs due to these high fuel prices. It is necessary – to that end I also recognise and to this we also confess – that we will in future be careful in a tax reform that we may replace the previous penalty by fiscal measures that take account of the actual mileage. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: And the low income!]] That's all right, and you can discuss it. It is necessary that we increase e-mobility and that we also put in place measures here. But what is certainly not possible is the implementation of those measures that have been remembered on the part of the BZÖ, because they simply do not bring anything like that and the idea of the principle is also wrong. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we will not, of course, give our consent to this urgent request, but we can assure that at least the Austrian People's Party will continue to do everything possible to ensure that there are future fuel prices that are manageable and, on the other hand, if they mean for people that they are also supported accordingly by conflicting and accompanying measures.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e17200	Mr Venier has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e17221	Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! Mobility is one of the basic needs of people. It is one of the essential conditions for the economy, for the development of independent life and daily life. I mean not only footpath, bicycle and public transport, but also, above all, motorised individual and professional transport, which – like some ladies and gentlemen in this House – will neither reduce nor disintegrate in air. It is simply the fact that many people, but also companies in our country, depend on motor vehicles. In the past, they have always been massively required to swallow these costs and to carry them out as much as possible, which is very difficult for them. Of course, the economy is also very difficult to cope with, assuming that the economy has passed on these costs to the final consumers. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In addition, a rather intense economic damage has also arisen, as you have strangled the lucrative tank tourism with the greatest success. With the price level now reached, with which, according to my fear, the ceiling still does not seem to be reached, at least the limit of the reasonable is finally over-- Steps to be taken. And you, ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government, are today required to do something about it. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I am already aware that neither against stock exchange speculation nor the policy of OPEC, nor the massively negative Iran policy of the USA and the EU, can or can change its policy towards other potential suppliers. But we can certainly put in place measures here and today in our own country, such as a significant reduction in mineral oil tax. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The fact that such a reduction in mineral oil tax would also have a positive impact on tank tourism and thus provide additional millions to the budget without burdening its own population is clear and was also supported by research results of the Vienna University of Economics from last year. I have to tell you quite honestly, I'd rather we earn from tankers than our own citizens. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Another measure, which concerns countries, would be meant to reduce the burden of tourism on fuels. Every citizen who tankes in Austria in different federal states pays a tourist tax, which, of course, also leads to a higher price. A particularly important point, however, is the exit from the entirely useless Kyoto Protocol, because air pollution is not known to be at the border, and it is not to be seen that we are suffering economic damage due to these obligations. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Other countries, such as the Canadians, who have preserved their common sense, have long recognized this and are now saving billions by the Kyoto exit. We should also do so, especially in the sense of those who are being reduced by these fuel prices. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hornek.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I know that with a broad majority of you – divided into tax drivers and eco-freaks – I am going to encounter rejection, but today I invite you to act in the interests of the citizen and to ensure that discharge is urgently needed in this important area. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In this context, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e17355	The request just submitted is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e17425	Next speaker: Mrs Dr. Moser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e17446	Madam President. Dear Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, the reform of the Pendlerenpauschale is certainly consistent in this house. We heard it from the SPÖ side. We've heard it from the FPÖ. We Greens have always been in favour of reforming the flat rate rate in favour of those who benefit from public transport, and especially those who deserve little – because they suffer from this pressure, especially the rising fuel prices. I think it is also possible with the ÖVP to form an alliance, to make an alliance towards finite reform of this penalty. This would be a positive result of today's discussion on this urgent request – because all other discussions on the part of the BZÖ and also on the part of the FPÖ are more than unnecessary. Let me briefly keep a few realities in mind. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ing. Höbart.]] Excuse me, Mr Höbart, you know the same thing as I do: Oil is finally. They also know that part of the price increase is due to the fact that the “Peak Oil” has been achieved and that we simply have higher prices with less offer. They also know that demand for oil will also increase due to certain global economic developments. Yes, and the price increase in oil is predictable on the one hand by the lower future promotion – as the Amen will come in prayer – and on the other hand, of course, is even worsened by the speculative processes in the markets – no question. Against this background, I can only recommend one thing you sometimes suggest: Be independent! Independent of fossil fuels, of oil, of what the Sheikhs and the Mullahs deliver to us! Just a small footnote: What do you think the country most subsidized the fuels, just as you suggest? - That's Iran. Iran, an oil producing country, the country where the “Mullahs” – under quotation marks – still rule, subsidizes most. Do we want to have the Mullah course in Austria? – I say: No, no, no, So that's weird to me. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Ing. Höbart: It's about turning a little on the control screw! A little bit!]] I would like to show you another fact. Of course, the price increase in the fuel is now clearly noticeable, but compare that! Compare this with vital goods – I've got a table here –: Price increase in petrol – fifties and now –: to the 400 percent price increase; milk over 453 percent; beer 782 percent price increase in comparison to the fifties; bread price plus 848 percent – yes, it is! –; [[Abg. Ing. Höbart: Is the beer vital? – For some, perhaps!]] Potato plus 880 percent price increase. What about the movie card? – You can consider this briefly, how much more expensive it is than in the 1950s; I don't think you're gonna guess. – Price increase for movie cards: 2 354 percent! [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Is incredible!]] These are the realities in price increases. In this dimension, the fuel price increase is in the middle field or in the lower field. And in this dimension, I cannot discuss a reduction in the tax on mineral oil. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Ing. Höbart: How much percent have the salaries increased?]] I can very well and have to discuss the following: First, how do I solve the dependence on oil? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] Secondly, how can I change the system, including tax policy? We have long been in favour of ecologizing the tax system, in order to reduce labour taxation. This is urgently necessary in the context, and in order to reduce dependence on oil, we must also tax the fossil sector more – not a question – but always in social compensation and income-neutral. [[Abg. Ing. Höbart: It's not happening anymore, that's the problem!]] And what I still need to discuss is, as I said, also this question of the Pendlerenpauschale: This is really an extreme social imbalance. And what I need to discuss is certainly a social policy accompanying package on what is now on the table on savings measures. But what I do not want to discuss is the question of mineral oil tax in Austria, because we are still, compared to other countries that are cheap Jacob. . I say: compared to other countries in Europe. This tax discussion leads us completely to the dependence on oil sheikhs, on multis, on speculators. And that's why: Let us take a step below it and start constructively with the ecologicalisation of the tax system, with the reform of the Pendlerenpauschale and finally with a proper expansion of public transport. Every cent is urgently needed to improve the supply, because then we have what the donors need: safe transport. Then we have what the donors need: cheaper oil – this costs up to a maximum of a quarter of what individual traffic costs a person monthly. And then we also have what we ultimately need, namely a socially balanced, soft mobility policy with future dimensions, which we can also afford if there is no drop of oil. And that's where the greens want it. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e17573	Mrs Schenk. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to make a point of order. – I draw attention to this: I wish to put the clock at 4 minutes; the total rest time of your group is 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e17595	Madam President. Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Caring is almost out of control. The then utopian demands of the Greens in Germany, which demanded a petrol price of 20 s per litre, have now been exceeded by reality – and this is sad. Today we have with 1.60 € a petrol price of 22 s, my dear ladies and gentlemen. And the experts' forecasts speak of 2 € per litre. That is 28 s in real currency, ladies and gentlemen. This must be kept in mind, and all of us here must be internalized, especially you, ladies and gentlemen of the government. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. Oillinger: Shorter cars driving!]] The spray prices are rising to the immeasurable, the drivers are shut down and worn down, the mineral oil companies write record profits. Something's going wrong. The Federal Government does not mind. This was discussed in today's debate by the previous speakers of our group and also by the other opposition party, the FPÖ. The Federal Government is not doing anything, and the MEPs are even making fun of it, especially the SPÖ delegates. I remember the special meeting last week, where my colleague Gerald Groszhier reported from this speaker's desk that he paid 1,60 € at a gas station in Wiener Neustadt. [[Abg. Grosz: That's where everyone laughed!]] How was the reaction from the SPÖ? In between, Mr Riepl cried: ‘Selver debt!’ And Mr. Krainer made himself even more ridiculous as he went here to the speaker's desk and said – I quote from the Stenographical Protocol –: “I think it’s time to come back to reality here at the speaker’s desk. I can only say that in Vienna Ottakring has cost the Sprit 1.39 € today. I do not know where you are drinking, Mr Grosz, but perhaps you should choose another gas station to save something.” – This is pure cynicism, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Grosz: That's a week ago!]] [[BZÖ's condolences.]] And this cynicism is symptomatic of the SPÖ's policy, and it's like a red thread. Mineral oil tax is increased. Mrs Hakel, who is not in the room now, has already noted at least that the petrol price is too high, but she has a very strange access: She said that reducing the mineral oil tax would be a disadvantage for the population. – Now I'm wondering: Where is there the disadvantage for the population if the mineral tax is reduced, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ? [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Since we are just at the SPÖ, let's take a look at Vienna: ==References== March, the drivers are especially wretched and punished here, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Promising punishment: The penalty for false parking is increased from 21 € to 36 €. [[Abg. Ing. I know what you're thinking. That's a prank!]] Parking fees are increased. The price of the short parking ticket will be increased by 67 percent. While you have paid 60 cents for half an hour, you will pay 1 € from tomorrow, my dear ladies and gentlemen. I have here – I don't know, maybe someone else knows it or anyone else can recognize it – a parking ticket from 2001 with a double award in Schilling and in Euro. Do you know what a parking ticket cost in 2001? Does anyone know? – It was 6 S or 44 Cent, my dear ladies and gentlemen. What do we have today, 2012? – An increase of 129 percent for parking tickets in Vienna. That's a pick-up, my dear. Ladies and gentlemen, that must be done! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Call: That's Vienna! For the parking tickets is Vienna]] That's Vienna? – This is not only Vienna, it is also the Federal Government, especially with regard to the petrol price. We call on the Federal Government to ask the Minister to take action here at last. And I would also like to ask you in this context what it looks like with the monitoring group, which is located in your ministry: It was set up in 2008 and was not called up. ÖAMTC, ARBÖ, the Federal Competition Authority, the Chamber of Workers, all have criticized this, all have made proposals – proposals that can also be found in our urgent request. They're not responding. They say there's nothing to do here. – But there are examples of the opposite. Perhaps you can say something about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e17710	Mr Mag. Maier is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e17732	Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Bucher: What does the Chamber of Workers say now? – The cartel hunter number one in Europe!]] I will, of course, comment very concretely on the positions of the Chamber of Labour, Mr Bucher. [[Abg. Booker: Jacky! Cartel hunter number 1! “FBI”! - Always a big blow!]] Only one thing I noticed again, when there are demands from the Chamber of Workers: that you read only half – even half – and forget all other demands and move away. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Big fuck!]] But I'd like to say something else now. It's me, High House, something in the stomach. [[Abg. Bucher: Big tones spit and put great in the Chamber of Workers – and then don't do anything!]] Then the Lord Bucher goes out and speaks of an immoral course. – Now I think, as a member of the investigative committee for the detection of corruption crimes: Why can the word “moral ” still be spoken by Mr Bucher? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Go, stop!]] [[Abg. Bucher: Are you still with senses? – You are not accountable! – That’s incredible!]] High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! We are confronted in the investigation committee with a party financing by Telekom for the BZÖ. [[Abg. Bucher: The biggest criminals can be found in SPÖ! You have the greatest criminals in your ranks! – There has never been one locked in with us!]] And then the Lord Bucher comes here and speaks of an immoral course. But not only Mr Bucher, Mr Hohes Haus, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Grosz: What about Mr. Gartlehner?]] There was another speaker of the BZÖ today. [[Call at BZÖ:A criminal party is the SPÖ!]] He has said one thing, and I have missed the call here in this House, namely that foreign policy towards Iran would be responsible for the high prices of petrol. [[Abg. Bucher: That's a red skull!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: The fattest MP with the worst toupet!]] And Mr Scheibner has also explained something like that to us here. Ladies and gentlemen! What is Iran? – Iran is a terrorist regime, a regime that suppresses the peoples of Iran, where there is Sharia and where a nuclear bomb is currently being bombed. And now the BZÖ is going here – this is very important for the television viewers – but I would like one thing: Never put the word ‘human rights’ into the mouth again, if you think that, for economic reasons, the European Union should not take action against Iran! [[Abg. Booker: This is inconceivable!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Awesome!]] [[continuing calls to the BZÖ]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Bucher: A Moral! That's great!]] – Let’s get to morale, Mr. Bucher! [[Abg. Bucher: You are the biggest criminal party that exists at all!]] [[Abg. Grosz: How did you get the toupet?]] I believe that the biggest problem with fuel prices is currently on the markets. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler:, called “Hasenfoot”!]] The markets are sinking with raw materials, with the oil price, and the speculators are driving fuel prices up. [[President Neugebauer shall take over the chairmanship.]] There are four aspects for this enormous development. On the one hand, it is the high rosility journey, which the Federal Minister has already mentioned, on the other hand the weak euro price, the lack of competition and the soccer industry on the international stock exchanges. If we want to deal with these problems, we cannot regulate them nationally, Mr Bucher, we can only regulate them at international level. [[Abg. Bucher: Again a big shut, but don't solve anything! Big proverbs knock, but don't do anything!]] And now the paper of the Chamber of Workers. The Chamber of Labour, which regularly conducts price surveys, also points out how difficult a uniform price in Austria is due to geographical conditions, for example in my federal state, in Salzburg, in Carinthia and in Tyrol. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: If they have such officials as you!]] The Chamber of Labour, Mr. Collegate Bucher, does not require a price arrangement under § 5a – which would not be possible by the way. I would also like to correct the honourable Members. According to § 5a, the Federal Minister cannot apply a price scheme; an investigation according to § 5a para. 1 desire. [[Abg. Bucher: Jarolim has requested this!]] Please read exactly the text of the law! [[Abg. Grosz: No, read the request from Comrade Jarolim!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You are unable to read!]] The Chamber of Labour does not require any price fixing, the Chamber of Labour requires quite something else – I quote –: Suggest speculators bars: “The government must be committed at EU level to measures against speculation in the commodity markets, especially on the oil market.” – This is already happening. The second point: Study of spray price formation. ‘The EU Commission must examine price formation in crude oil and fuel,’ as well as in the oil market. – Passing already. The third point: The Federal Competition Authority must take a close look at the Austrian fuel market. – That’s what the Chamber of Labour said, colleague Bucher! And now we're in the cartel procedure. I am grateful for the excellent work done by the Federal Competition Authority, which regularly examines the fuel market in Austria, and I recommend to colleagues from BZÖ to look at the website of the Federal Competition Authority, in particular with regard to the studies already carried out. [[Abg. Scheibner: Well, we need you with your teachings!]] Why are the antitrust authorities in Europe actually successful, colleague Bucher? Why? - Because there's a leniency arrangement. [[Abg. Grosz: I am saving you to tell you what the Herbert Haupt thought about you!]] With a crowning arrangement, the elevator cartel could be smashed, the cosmetic cartel could be broken, and they were committed to extremely high payments. Mr Bucher, we have now also taken over in the field of criminal law. There is already a chandelier, and he has clearly confirmed the party financing of the BZÖ by Telekom. I would like to highlight this with all clarity. The procedural regulation is excellent, and a request from me: Do you know a leniency witness on the Austrian market that could say about anticompetitive behaviour at the Federal Cartel Authority or at the Federal Competition Authority? If we had a crown witness, then a cartel could be smashed.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e18113	Next speaker: Mr Scheibner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e18134	Mr Maier, in addition to other false claims, has made the assumption that I would sacrifice human rights to economic interests and would therefore be opposed to sanctions against Iran. – This claim is incorrect like some others! On the contrary: I have said that, of course, the fight for human rights is important, and I have criticised the fact that many powers, great powers in the world – unfortunately also with the support of the European Union – are intervening from economic interests in this region and not looking at human rights in the foreground. Finally, the bill also has to pay the civilian population in the event of sanctions – and also the taxpayer in Austria because he has to catch the higher fuel price. So don't claim the untruth in such a sensitive question, but better learn what really is important for the people there!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e18171	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Schools. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e18229	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Appreciate High House! The colleagues from the BZÖ once again have a big empty subject and have looked into the calendar and seen: Ah yes, look at that – the fuel prices fit, we can do something again! Congratulations on “creativity ”! That's not the first time. Are you actually writing off your own speeches? Do you already write down your own applications? It's really fat. I'm surprised that my colleague Bucher's coming out with this troop at all. You yourself are one who occasionally has good ideas, but if you look at the background, you don't wonder that such things must be. Well, it's the way it is. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Grosz: For the protocol: weak applause at the ÖVP!]] It's the way it is. If we really want to talk about the question of market economy, then we just talk about it and ask what it is like when something gets tight. If something gets tight, it'll be expensive. If it gets expensive, you have to react to it. [[Abg. Grosz: This is how the small Maxl introduces fuel regulation!]] You usually turn to something that is not so expensive, and actually it works in this area too. Dear colleagues! At the moment Diesel is expensive, at the moment heating oil is expensive, which is the same, just coloured, at the moment petrol is expensive. [[Abg. Grosz: Well, don't do anything! Take our 8 600 € Gage from Parliament! – Commissioner, you too are expensive!]] The driver can avoid the diesel badly, but all can avoid each other in the question of heating oil. Let us remember that we are not at all concerned with looking for alternatives to reduce mineral oil consumption at all. Very soon, we would have a good topic to discuss. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: 8 600 € per month!]] It is about adding from the fossil energy sources away and to alternative energy sources that we have and can use. [[Subsequent calls by Mr Grosz and Mr Ing. Westenthaler.]] - Watch out a little, dear friends! For example, we have the possibility to replace diesel with biodiesel, we have the opportunity to replace fuel oil in the basement with wood and pellets, and we have the opportunity to replace it with bioethanol petrol – and all of this at competitive and comparable prices at the moment! The point is: Why don't you support this anymore? Why are you all opposed to us going on in these issues? You're all housemasters in trouble! [[Abg. Markowitz: Who is against it? That's incredible!]] There are some topics where we could move on, but precisely in these questions we hear nothing from you! [[Abg. Markowitz: Tell me who is against it!]] Your request does not contain a single sentence on alternatives, nothing has come to your mind! [[Abg. Markowitz makes the wiper movement.]] And you don't need foxes and skulls, and we don't show the bird in there either! [[Abg. Grosz: Is this the Ashandi Wednesday address from the Lower Austrian Chamber of Agriculture?]] [[Abg. Markowitz: Tell me who is against it!]] You can get quiet loud, but bird shows, we don't do that – not yet – in this house! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen, fact is, there are alternatives and alternative possibilities, in the wood, at the pellets. With this we displace heating oil, and we displace heating oil, the scarcity becomes less. And if the Danube is frozen, it's not as close as it is, because we're easier to get to other sources ourselves. We also have similar possibilities in the gas. Biogas is produced in Germany. Big theater, big scream! The fact is that now biogas is produced in Germany, six times as much as Austria consumes natural gas at all. All those who have once made fun of it must note that this is now a topic. Another topic: We're so happy to talk about biofuel, we're talking about bioethanol and fuels. Brazil has found an alternative: Brazil is now winning half its fuel from sugar cane. There one now consumes more ethanol than petrol, because one has come up with the fact that the dependence is the worst that dependency is the biggest cost factor. So: If we want cheaper fuels, we have to get away from fossil energy sources. This is the bitter truth. And if we still don't have prices that we like, we just have to drive more economical cars. And this is a special topic for the friends of the Wwwwufff Group – "Wuff" is difficult to write for the stenographs – for the BZÖ friends who like to travel PS-strongly. [[Rejoicing]] [[Abg. Grosz: Does the colleague have blowings?]] So I'd recommend: A little more thinking, a little under control of the gas foot and a little less of it when driving. This relaxes and saves a lot of fuel. Thank you, gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e18429	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Höbart. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e18466	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Just a few words about the Greens. I always wonder, What do you want? Are you actually doing this with about six million vehicles registered in this Republic? Do you just want to spell them out? Do you just want to see how some people in this country can afford less and less to be able to handle the taps accordingly? Please let us have a concept! Six million registered vehicles cannot be easily enchanted away. I don't want to deal with you much more. To Mr Schultes. – You are President of the Lower Austrian Chamber of Agriculture. I have the impression, Mr Schultes, that you are simply not interested in the concerns of the people in this country. You probably get into your van every day, so you don't care what you're doing every day in the taps. That's my impression I won when I heard your speech. It's just meat for you, and that's very disappointing, I have to tell you. [[In the case of the FPÖ, as well as the BZÖ Members.]] I have looked at the figures of the last, I would like to say almost decades of the price trend. For example, in 1980 the price for diesel – converted into euro – was 0.6, 1990 at 0.64 €. In other words, we have had a 7 percent increase in this area. Interestingly, from 1990 to 1995, there was a price reduction of about 10 percent, i.e. €0.58 per litre of diesel. From 1995 to 2000, there was a huge increase, i.e. a 35 per cent increase in prices for diesel, to just under €0.78 per litre. At that time we all thought about the proposal of the Greens, but the price for a litre of petrol may grow on more than 20 schillings. All of them are actually just grumbling about this austere proposal of the Greens – it is now reality. From the year 2000 to 2012, we had a huge increase in seed costs of over 80 percent! I ask quite openly: What about the salaries of the Austrians? Was there also an 80 percent increase that you can just hide it so loosely? I do not want to go into inflation at all. So here's a lot of things already happened: The drivers as a milk cow of this state! Mr Minister, you know there are possibilities, though not serious, but you would have the opportunity to move something here in a power act. I'll come to these things later. I would like to give you the latest spray prices of Gran Canaria on the way: Diesel 0,9 € and 95er super gasoline 1 €. So I wonder how Gran Canaria manages. Okay, they might have a slightly different tax situation, but still I don't want to be satisfied with just saying: My name is Hase, I don't know anything, I don't care, and the Austrians like to bleed. In this context, I would also like to refer to the burden-laws that have been applying in recent months and years to the Austrians – as far as federal taxes are concerned, cuts by pensioners, the 13. Family aid has been removed, construction savings are expected to be halved in the near future, and the national and local taxes are actually exploding. You must not ignore that either. People today wonder: Why should I pay 30 percent more for channel usage fees? Why should I pay more for waste, water charges, hort costs 30, 40, 50 percent? And finally, this horror on the tanks! This overall tax package is simply not tolerable for the people of Austria. And we hear every day that people say: I can't afford a decent life here anymore. On the other hand, the Federal Government is sinking billions in the European Union, in the Greek Aegean – we can assume it is – for social abuse and immigration and asylum abuse. And the Austrians have no understanding of this! We therefore call for an immediate state intervention to reduce the spray price – it has already been said several times today – and we demand a reduction in mineral oil tax – that is possible; You can turn on this screw, Minister, you know it very well – we demand that the kilometre money be adjusted accordingly – a corresponding request was made before – at 0.73 € per kilometre – long ago! – and we demand that the penalty be adjusted. There are possibilities here, and I ask you, Minister of State Mitterlehner, to work together with Minister of Finance Fekter on these possibilities. It has become unbearable today to fill a motor vehicle with the taps.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e18534	Next speaker: Mrs. Dr. Lichtenecker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e18555	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Mitterlehner and I, we have at least one common ground: We both come from the Mühlviertel, a region in which there are many counterparts who are very often dependent on using their own vehicle. And I – and I suppose, Mr. Mitterlehner, too – experience in many conversations with the people, with the commuters, that people are not looking forward to commuting to Linz every day, for example, to stand in front of Linz, from the district of Rohrbach in front of Ottensheim, from the district of Freistadt across the motorway, and here a lot of money, a lot of time, a lot of quality of life. No, people don't. They want a high quality job, and if possible in the region. I know that this is a medium-term, longer-term approach, but I think it is necessary for a long time to start working on economic promotion right here, and, Mr Minister, I would also like to give it to you in this form. I believe that it is long ago when we are raising the funding jungle in Austria, when we focus on where we should create jobs. It is important to strengthen the regional economy. Since the commuters have no desire for congestion and the corresponding costs and the waste of life, of course a second point is also to find forms of sustainable mobility, and that is to say, the expansion of public transport to a very strong extent. And, of course, it is also called conductive mobility in the sense of modern, innovative drive techniques, mobility, which is much cheaper in this form. Who of you, ladies and gentlemen, can not recall the debate about the one-litre car, the reports that there is this? It is the question why it has not found the breakthrough in the market. These are areas where I believe there is still huge investment needs, even if this is now medium-term and does not help in the short term. And that will also be difficult in this price increase context for oil. But here I come to an issue – e.g. electromobility – which will surely, all experts, experts, experience an upturn. If in fact a part of the new mobility forms will be e-mobility, then you need to remember to create the infrastructure. And the modern infrastructure in this area also means adapting the new buildings to this requirement area – from charging stations to network lines and so on. But in the end, all of this will not be able to replace it. Finally, we need a consistent conversion, a consistent conversion of the economic and, of course, the transport system. And that means nothing but, of course, an eco-social tax reform. My colleague Gabi Moser did this. It is urgently necessary to reduce labour costs and to provide an appropriate incentive to create jobs. Yeah, and the oil price made it for itself. He's gone up. It will continue to rise and, without major fiscal measures, there will also be further increases. Ladies and gentlemen, it is fact that the forecasts are based on the fact that 200 to 300 dollars will be charged per barrel. This must be seen, one must understand, one must develop the concepts and put in place appropriate measures. [[Abg. Rädler: What do you want to tell us?]] I think it is long since it is precisely up to you to respond to the promises, the words, the modernisation, the ecologisation of the transport system, from a modern spatial order to the fact that you are really implementing a consistent plan of action to relieve commuting the commuters in Austria, so that mobility can continue to be run down in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e18595	Next speaker: Mr Grosz. 3 minutes remaining speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e18618	So with what an acribie, energy and, above all, self-revelation has been tried by the speaker's desk today to find arguments against the BZÖ's request for the release of fuel prices and to create them here too, that is sensational. Parliamentary Mayer – not here now, probably again at Bundy and Bundy – today states that the Chamber of Labour has never demanded a maximum price cover. [[Sadness at the BZÖ]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig.]] Mr Maier, posthumous, in the absence or whatever: ==References== In September 2011, the Styrian Chamber of Workers, Rotschädl – he is likely to be a term, comrade Rotschädl with the Victor Adler board proud of the chest – demanded that, if necessary, a maximum limit be set for spray prices, as provided for in the Price Act – says Chamber President Walter Rotschädl. [[Abg. Bookbooker: This is the credibility of the SPÖ!]] And then today – Mr Matznetter is now also coming in from the buffet – and said that all the communists are inside, there is the Muhri, the old CCP representative, in the demands of the FPÖ and the BZÖ the the Muhris of the Republic, and then he becomes aware that his own colleague Jarolim, who, if he was not just outside, is sitting a bank in front of him, has put this request here in plenary with the colleague Westenthaler a few years ago. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] Today, however, every argument is taken to prevent the long-term price reduction in Austria, and that is the actual declaration of bankruptcy of this policy. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] A Minister for Economic Affairs, which covers the large industry instead of focusing on small and medium-sized enterprises, a Minister of Consumer Protection, who does not participate in the debate at all, although consumers in that country are being cut off every day, by this price policy, and a minister who calls a maximum price cover a Communism, although he knows very well that in Luxembourg – and I do not remember that Luxembourg is ruling communistally – a price system applies and Europe is talking about this Luxembourg model when it comes to finally easing drivers. [[Between calls at SPÖ and Abg. Clickovits.]] Multiple points: Opening of the federal and state gas stations, maximum price cover, financing a reduction of the mineral oil tax by a special dividend that you have to use from your national OMV – that is what at this time would be a command of the hour, and not the argument with the travels of rosilence. I have looked at the development of the Rohelp's journey: In 2009 we had a similar crude oil price on the international market as we have now in 2011. In 2009, however, at the beginning of the year, the Liter Diesel cost €0.90 and now at the same international crude oil price, i.e. 2011, a few years later, €1.22. So forget your voodoo and your humbug with the crises! Every time a crisis appears worldwide, the spray price goes up when the crisis is over, it does not sink, but you stop your pockets full of taxpayers' money, and that is a shame to this country.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e18696	Mr Grosz, in your well-known zeal for various issues, I would like to hear a lot about this, but one thing is certainly not going to happen: that you are doing something almost posthumously to a non-present Member. [[Rejoicing at the ÖVP]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: He didn't die!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: But that's logical!]] I would advise you that you go to my colleague, Mr Maier, and say that you did not want his death! I think that's a terrible thing. [[Abg. Grosz: I have a lot more fun when he...!]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Next speaker: Mr Lausch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e18768	Mr President. Mr Sozialminister! Minister for Economic Affairs! High house! It is really a bit sad and embarrassing that such an important topic that really moves the population – a spring price – is really not without it at the moment – in times like this one is actually being discussed with one's own sensibilities, with abuses and already suffers a little. Of course, as one of the last speakers, you can do a bit of a replication. Mr Hakel, I don't quite understand your example of calculation, but maybe you're more connected to the OMV and know that, but if 46 percent tax on fuel and you're going to lower the tax wherever that goes, I don't quite understand that the spit is going to be cheaper. Mr Minister for Economic Affairs, do you know what bothers the people a little and is already very excited at the gas stations? – The free competition is quite natural and logical, but that the companies are already a little bit, I say, at the gas stations, that is already undisputed, for one thing is clear: In the agglomeration centres, citizens usually earn more. In the Federal Capital of Vienna, for example, one is more often blessed with a higher merit than in the rural areas. Especially where a tighter gas station network is, the fuel prices are cheaper than in the rural area, and of course it cannot be that you pay 1,411 € for the litre and the same Avanti service station in Vienna 1,379 at an Avanti station in Hollabrunn, my district. Do you want to see yourself in the future, which is certainly very good for the environment, the cheapest gas station in the radius of 30, 40 kilometers and is gasing there? - It can't be. So there is a certain classification, and you can see that it is not bad for the gas station companies, quite the contrary, even very, very good, and of course it is at the expense of the citizens. And if you talk to the citizens outside today, keep in touch – in the council, basic politicians – I'll tell you: Talk to the people, and the people will tell you, these spray prices are crazy, and you don't understand the silence of the Minister of Economic Affairs. For 25 years, it can be said that the Minister of Economic Affairs has come from a number of the ÖVP, but I must say, as silently as you, Mr. Federal Minister, was not yet one of your predecessors from the ÖVP-Rieges – neither were they freedom-wing economic ministers. So you're already closing up a little bit of this problem, of course, also the problems of the citizen. [[Interference of Federal Minister Dr. Mitterlehner.]] If you talk to the people, then you'll really notice that's a problem for the people. And do you know what you see it's too expensive for people? – If people start to convert into Schilling again today, and if today someone says this 75 € at the gas station, full tank, that would be far more than 1,000 schilling, and I could not have done that earlier, then you must already see an alarm sign somewhere – or you already have leaving the base, leaving the citizen and you only come in here to heat up the mood and to question each other and to argue here at the speaker's desk. But I don't think that's what the population wants. Today, if you follow this debate, you want to have a solution, of course, and then you want to be very sure that something might change in the fuel prices, in some direction, either tax or otherwise, but at the final price, that you can afford the fuel again. And what you certainly don't want is for you to calculate each other and see a colleague Maier from SPÖ who defends the Minister of Economic Affairs Mitterlehner on bending and breaking and with a heart's brunch. I must honestly say to you that I know God thank God in my district of the Chamber of Workers other officials who are still accepting the concerns and fears of the citizens, and that is a bit very, very strange as you here defend the Federal Minister Mitterlehner of the ÖVP. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] But yes, that's how Coalition Love is, you're not the first time with the ÖVP in the coalition bed. - Good, thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e18841	Next speaker: Member of the jury. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e18863	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Welcome to our Carinthian guest group with a warm applause! [[General condolences.]] To conclude, I would like to say: It is already illustrious to hear the members of the government here on the stage defending them with claws, acts and claws of this system, this European economic system. [[Federal Minister Dr. Mitterlehner: What?]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, it is not only about spray prices, which are, of course, far too high and which are, of course, state-made with more than 50 percent of the tax share, but also about our corporations, starting with the banks that cash up to 18 percent, my dear ladies and gentlemen, up to 18 percent interest from our citizens, from the small people. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, this is the renunciation of the European Union's economic policy, and ladies and gentlemen, from the Chamber of Labour and consumer protection organisations, where are you? Where are you? Where is the VKI, where is the Chamber of Workers? It's all covered by you, this people's discount, whether that's at the spray price, whether it's with the banks, or whether it's in the food sector. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Shopf.]] Ladies and gentlemen, today in the “Small Newspaper” Razzia in the headquarters of the REWE. [[The honourable Member shall keep them up to date.]] The REWE Group includes many businesses with Billa, Mercury and Penny and other consumer businesses that people need for daily life. [[Call:ADEG]] That's where the competition guards go out and in. This is the departure of economic policy in the European Union with its international links. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not want to have this – the foreign politicians will understand me – Yugoslavia syndrome: rich north, poor south, and eventually it crushes this European Union. We see the fires for young people in England, we see the fires in France, we see the fires in Greece. [[Abg. Oillinger: What does REWE have to do with?]] We want to return to a national economic policy, where people are again at the heart of politics and where people are going well again.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e18946	No one is reporting on this. I'll close the debate. We come to the votes. Vote on the self-employed motion for a resolution 1839/A(E) by Mrs Bucher, fellow Members, on ‘Feed-for-genuity – stop unfavorable offspockets at the fillings of the gas stations immediately!’ Whoever is in favour of this request, I ask him for a sign. – It does not find a majority. The application is rejected. vote on the motion for a resolution by Mrs Mathias Venier, ladies and gentlemen, on the package of measures for the discharge of drivers. If you support this motion for a resolution, I would ask for a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. [[17:34:17]] Short debate on the response to the question 9937/AB
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e19004	We now come to the brief debate on the question answered by the Federal Minister for Education, Art and Culture with the order number 9937/AB. The above-mentioned answer has already been distributed, so that a reading by the writer is not necessary. We are going into the debate. The first speaker has a speaking time of 10 minutes, the more speakers each 5 minutes. Opinions from members of the Federal Government should not last more than 10 minutes. The debate opens up to Mr. Dr. Fichtenbauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e19038	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Mrs. Schmied, the matter is unfortunately yours because, as the highest organ, you bear the responsibility, although the cause of the evil that is undoubtedly present is not yours. That's what I want to say at the beginning. Yesterday, by the way, I looked at the “Report. ” They were prominently represented, talked about the future of the overall matura, leaving an interesting word to fall or put into space. It was called “the culture of reason. ” [[Federal Minister Dr. Schmied nodds.]] So the subject of matura education is new, among other things, culture of justification. This is actually the key word that leads me to this speaker's seat today. I should like to say that the culture of the explanatory statement is inadequate, in view of the answer that has been given to us in relation to the question. The main focus of the question is the action and lassen, which is concentrated around a certain woman named Linda Ronniger, her sign of national school inspector in Lower Austria. It has become 60 years, we give it to her from the heart, and her disciple circle has on the 2nd day. ==References====External links== What it has in itself with the feast and the orientation and use of resources, my friend and colleague Rosenkranz will explain even more. A key point of this festival at the “Zauberberg” was our special attention, in a line of invitation. This is: “Please don’t bring any gifts or vouchers! The birthday child bought a ‘Nitsch’ – and it was very expensive ” As a result, we have asked if this is not a request for money gifts, and the State School Council of Lower Austria will explain to you – and this is expressed in your answer to the question: ‘The documents available to the National Schools Council for Lower Austria do not allow for the registration of cash gifts.’ So please, I would say that we all pay together, a free ticket from Krems or St. Pölten here to the investigative committee that deals with corruption, can't be so expensive because we're talking about Telekom, we have 200 000 emails that are owned by ‘NEWS’, we have a huge list of transactions relating to money gift, demand, payment there, and that shouldn't be a request of money gifts?- Oh, my God! I brought with me the code on criminal law with care. We can now begin to read, it starts from § 304 bribery, § 305 advantage acceptance, § 306 preparation for bribery and benefit acceptance, § 307 bribery itself, § 307a advantage grant, then preparation of bribery § 307b, and so on. Unfortunately, we did not arrive in the event of active repentance. So now we can choose from which flower bouquet we win the spell. “We wind up the Jungfernkranz”, it says in the opera, but the Jungfernkranz is characterized by wretched thistles. The answer you give in your reply comes from the corner of Mr Helm, President of the State School Council of Lower Austria. The person of the President Helm manifests the inability to be incarnate, the refusal of proper supervision of the service, and the coverage of a firm defeat that has been striking in the person of Mrs Ronniger for years and days. This lady is not one who performs her service, but she is a well-known mixture of sadism and right-wing shattering – we could add some vocabulary. All of this is an amalgam, probably also their personal inability, because weak persons are caring for their service by running up against subordinates. This is exactly the “quality feature” of such people. In an action that has been filed for this reason because she has over the years been treating Mrs Evelyn Mayer on the Mieste and where, on 35 pages of a compensation claim against the Republic of Austria, compensation is rightly sought for breach of the service supervision and the law-reliance administrative procedure, you can read a prose that is borne by a mixture of amazement and reluctance that such a thing can happen in the Austrian school administration. The summit of aversion focused on Dr Evelyn Mayer was at the heart of – in addition to many, many, many details – the fact that Dr. Mayer refused to hold protocols of meetings in the autonomous school committee. Falsify. She said: Please, I, Mrs. Mayer, should amend the registration forms so that the parents are informed that the school makes the allocation to the second foreign language at the centre of the training! Then, by the way, she gave the instructions to submit the letter on a fixed-place promise, i.e. the binding admission of students, before completion for approval. She did not do that because of illegality, and then the whole aggression of the Sadistin took her free course. She quit after Ms. Dr. Mayer has said that in case of counterfeiting of discussion information she does not participate, because it is illegal, because they will also be praising them into the pension – “blessing” under quotation marks – because she has already done so with other directors. She has, of course, insulted her, publicly devalued her loss of reality, she is half mentally ill, and she should be aware that she is indescribable and that she is already going to take her away. That there are mistakes where people act, that there is inadequacy, that is so, but that the year and day are accepted and that President Helm, who has been informed in detail about this person and the evils year and day, has also covered! And now comes the summit of the crime case, where cash is indisputably demanded: The birthday child doesn’t want any gifts, doesn’t want vouchers, the birthday child has bought a “nitsch”, and he’s probably cost a lot of money. – So far we have brought it when, taking into account five or six paragraphs of President Helm’s criminal code, we say: There is nothing I can see, there can be no suggestion to accept gifts of money. We promise to all those involved at the level of the school administration in Lower Austria that we will not go to the agenda. We will be interested in what the corruption prosecutor says about this statement, and we will at all meet our obligations as freely elected Members by responding to it and not going to the agenda, where there is a malice – and now I am not saying a sharper word – in the administration. Sadism, lawbreak, corruption are not tolerant! - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e19130	Now Mrs. Federal Minister Dr. Schmied is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e19151	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Fichtenbauer, in my opinion, I would like to focus on the answer to the question and the case that was asked here, and it is important to me – and I will come back to that – to note that this was obviously a private birthday celebration. I can quote from my answer to the question: "After consulting the competent school authority, including the school in question, the school for the preparation of the celebration did not have any cost. The organisation took place within the framework of a teaching block on the subject of ‘operating practice’. The costs of the use of goods for the performance of the event have been charged from the school to the mentioned ones and are also paid immediately.’ As far as I personally do not like the facts – but I say that now too – that I do not like them at all. I am in favour of clarity, and I am also in favour of a clear separation of function and role, for a clear separation of profession and private affairs. [[General condolences.]] Any mixture already has the root of the suspicion – no matter how much the suspicion is justified or not in the individual case. I find it problematic to mix – I would like to stress this again – school and private matters, though, as well as in this case correctly. I therefore, in that respect, your request was very valuable to me, Mr. Fichtenbauer, for the Ministry to prepare a decree to the schools in order to prevent it from happening. I want a clear separation of work and private affairs, I want clear and transparent rules for clean handling. That's important!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e19202	Next speaker: Mr Mayer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e19224	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) What the colleague Fichtenbauer has also done is what really affects me. If that was so – that's not part of the request; I can't verify it, I have to believe it – as he describes it, it's really hair-driving what happens there. I just refuse – and there we see the problem – the mixing of the competences. The National Council, in its own subcommittee of the Constitutional Committee, has clearly and clearly acknowledged that we want other responsibilities. Whoever pays, this is now the covenant, also creates and has the responsibility to bear. That's the goal we have. Then we would have to hold the discussions that would actually be part of the Lower Austrian Landtag, because it is in the competence of the Council of State Schools and therefore would have to be negotiated there and politically relevant there too. I cannot express it as strongly as the initiator of the educational people’s desire, Androsch, in the tomorrow’s “Kronen Zeitung” – countries have failed in education policy – but one has to say that there are actually such growths, and there is no way to look at them. I am therefore glad that Mrs Minister has declared that she will issue a corresponding decree explaining these things. Of course, it is very often difficult. Many such school events, which run in a similar context, are handled properly, and this should continue to be done. I know that many tourism schools are also active in public institutions as part of their internship. That makes sense. So you don't want to pour the child out with the bath here, but you do everything you can to clean things up and be transparent. That is why I am glad to be able to handle this now in such a way that things can be used. I also mean, if there are such swamps as you described them, they belong to dry laid, that made heard, that heard clarified, but in total I feel that one should also leave the church here in the village. Much is done in the area of tourism schools. For example, I myself was once and for all invited to a so-called exam at a technical school, where you also have contact with the teachers, with the director and so on. continue. I would never have suspected that this is on the verge of feeding, but that is just an important part of what we do in cooperation with the various schools. I believe that this is very important, but it should be clearly separated here. I would have meant, when I read the request and also the invitation you have attached to it, if this is within the framework of the internship, why should a national school inspector not do something good in the way and give students the possibility of an active appearance – in part, these things are counted in exams – but the addition below, I have “buyed myself a ‘Nitsch’”, which certainly makes the whole issue problematic. I would also be interested in how this would end legally. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e19269	Next speaker: Mrs Franz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e19290	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen in the High House! This question is about a birthday celebration, which took place in a tourism school, and I am actually surprised at the fact that Mr Fichtenbauer presented these animosities between two women. I also believe that when it comes to these tourism schools and their practical relations, it is important to point out that the curriculum for tourism schools clearly states that it is part of the curriculum to prepare events, to conduct events and to prepare them, and it is also a long-term practice in schools that they do so at various events for institutions, for communities or also for associations. I was recently invited to such a celebration at our tourism school in Bezau. This was the anniversary event of the ski club Bregenzerwald. I don't like it, but I like it when students can put their theoretical knowledge into practice. Not for nothing our tourism schools are very successful and the graduates are also very much in demand on the labour market. What can happen to the students better than to get to know their crafts in a practical implementation? And these are events like that. If there is such a background, then history looks a bit problematic. But that is not the question, it is a different story. That's why I'm talking about this thing now: There is no injustice, students have just benefited from new practical experience at this event, and, most importantly, the school has not incurred any cost.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e19328	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Rosenkranz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e19349	Mrs Franz! So the students have benefited from this event? – I tell you who has benefited: Mrs Ronniger has benefited from this, and Mrs Landesschulerin has benefited from it, in a way that is simply not heard. The Federal Minister has recognized this and has made a decree here. Because what's going on? And: Skill As a normal Otto consumer or, as you come from Vorarlberg, to quote Mr. Stadler from the past, as Mrs. Schmauswaberl, you come to a tourist school and say: Please, I'd like a party! - Then one happens: Yes, you get it, but for the service staff that the students provide, the corresponding hourly rate is to be paid. What's going to be done with Mrs. Ronniger? – The whole is brought together as a teaching block on the subject of “operating practice”. And one thing you can say, because after we made this request, we have of course learned more. If you look at the picture on the invitation, you see an attractive, elongated woman. It is no wonder that it is so elongated, because of course it has always done its other birthday celebrations – forty-fifth, fifty-fifths, fifty-fifths – in the corresponding schools: twice in Krems, once in St. Pölten and once in Retz. This is a repeater in itself, as far as this is concerned. Now I come back to the fact that, as Mrs Colleague said, there may have been a dispute between two women. Well, I can tell you from here that there's already the third woman involved in a dispute. This has already occupied the Constitutional Court and the Equal Treatment Commission, and this will also concern the criminal courts if a national school inspector believes he is allowed to announce in another part of Lower Austria: In the city she certainly won't be a director, because she doesn't fit into the political scheme. And it is actually that this woman has been prevented. That means, that's a completely different game. This has already been covered and clarified by requests. – That’s what it looks like when Mrs Ronniger is there! If you see that it is actively interfering in the management orders, you can of course also ask: Who is the Feast Moderator according to this invitation? The Feast Moderator is Mr. Jürgen Kürner, and this is the headmaster of this school. That is, if someone is another headmaster, there may be a risk that these conditions will be abolished there and turned away from simply serving the school as a self-service shop. We now need massive action on the corruption issue. This also concerns these whole levels. And now I'm asking one thing: What happens in terms of money that Mr Fichtenbauer mentioned? Everyone knows, if the colleague Fichtenbauer, whom one cannot attest to, is a special Verbal-Rabauke – he is already thinking very well what he says – so if the colleague Fichtenbauer here is very special, as you say in the past, going into the juice, then that must be something very special, which is in the background here, because for no reason he does not do that. You can compare other colleagues with their words quite quality when such a thing happens. What happens if Mr. Obersenatsrat invites a building department of a magistrate of construction companies and the like from his area and says: I would like to say straight away that the sacrifice bowl for the gifts is built up on the left hand side of the entrance. But please, no flowers, no vouchers, only bares. What's that? What would happen then? It's nothing else! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The Federal Minister, in her opinion and with her announcement of a clear separation of schools and private individuals, clearly recognized the problem. There is nothing wrong with private use of the services for these internships. But if this is someone from the profession itself and then someone who is there for quality assurance, namely the inspector of this school, who can be courted there, then that is in itself what is on this invitation as a subtitles – “I am 60 na and so? This belongs to an evaluated and quality-secured” –, white cock. Blanker Hohn is it when this inspector claims that what she does would secure the quality and she would be responsible for evaluating. It is an example of this that our school administration system and control system has a real problem due to the jungle of competence and the relocation in this area of school administration. It is high time for this to happen. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr Fichtenbauer has already made it sound: This case is only one of many and is symptomatic. Therefore, we will assess this case accordingly not only today and here, but also at various other levels, for such practices have been established in an educational system of the 21st century. ==References====External links== This may have grown after 1945, but this wild growth must be stopped, must be derooted!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e19430	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Walser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e19452	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! High house! This case is really symptomatic of what this national school inspector arrives. These are letters of complaint about them, these are procedures that I have received during the last year. There are incredible processes in there. This woman is not qualified for this office. That's obvious. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It is equally obvious – I asked a question about this one year ago, I will make another request next week – that the system of school supervision has simply failed, because the authority, including your highest officials, the head of section in your house, head of section Stelzmüller, head of section Siegl, knows about it for a long time, and is inactive. In my opinion, this is a violation of their duties. To play this case down, as the colleague of the ÖVP does, to present him as an animosity of two women, so to speak, a tick war, that is an immeasurable of the special class, and I would ask here, Mrs Colleague, that you apologise to those concerned at these schools. [[Congratulation with the Greens]] However, the Republic also has to apologise. On your behalf, Mrs. Minister, the Financial Procuratorate has replied to the complaint letter. I quote from this act, because this woman, Mrs. Mayer, is being double-finished: The genius of the spouse of the applicant is undisputed. In relationships in which a spouse is particularly successful, this brings the other spouses into a difficult situation, since he then has to take note of the genius and genius of the spouse. This could have contributed to a mental conjecture. - Quote. [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: This is unheard of!]] That's so incredible what's going on here. Debt is the Mobbing sacrifice, and this is officially notified to the Mobbing sacrifice from the Republic of Austria, on your behalf, Mrs. Minister. I think there is immediate action to be taken. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mrs. Mayer, by the way, is upstairs. I welcome you to this meeting. This case must be taken by us to question the entire system of school supervision. What we have here is a party-politically filtered system that no longer fulfils its actual task. Mr Mayer, the Council of State Schools, please, is a federal authority. Putting this down to the countries is too cheap. The Federal Minister has intervened, and I call on you to finally become active! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] What we need is a qualified feedback system to the teachers, to the directors. What we need is support for courageous directors who can't be interrupted. I think we also need to express our thanks to Mrs. Mayer for the fact that she is fighting these conditions and that she does not like what is meant to her. [[Congratulation with Greens and FPÖ.]] We have certain areas of competence. We have unclear areas of competence, and of course the root of the evil lies in the fact that the entire school system is divided between red and black, mostly in Carinthia, as we all know, the blues are also heavily involved. [[Abg. May. Widmann: In Upper Austria the Greens!]] – Of course, they were the ones who have prepared this path. There's a lot of complaints from Carinthia about what's gone down there. Let's take it a short time: Let us take the opportunity to discuss school supervision in a basic way. Inspectors of the old species have served in this modern system. We need qualified feedback. We need whole groups to go to schools that discuss with all those concerned who discuss at a level with those concerned – and not to qualify their subordinates in court-consistency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e19557	Next speaker: Mr Markowitz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e19578	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! High house! I am very grateful, Mr Fichtenbauer, for this question, because when we got the documents and looked at them, we were able to get a lot of information. One thing we have definitely learned today is that the ÖVP seems to be just about certain things and some issues are dealt with lapidar. But you can rest assured that on this issue, and especially in this case, the decades are going back – there are, in fact, for years problems with the person mentioned in the request – and stick to it – will be exactly how this is actually happening in this area. The answer to the question is clear and clear: No cost has been incurred. Mrs Minister, I am very grateful to you that you are still going to provide information in this regard, and we will be very happy to support you. But if you look at this wonderful invitation, and below stands, until Friday, 28. May 2010, announce your answer whether you are coming, yes or no, to office@Tourismusschuleen-semmering.at, so I ask myself, at this private celebration, who is actually sitting in this secretariat. [[the speaker shall keep a document up to date]] Mrs Franz, the daughter, a colleague or someone from the secretariat who is paid by the state? – This is the crucial issue. The costs have been incurred by the Republic, and we find this to be absolutely last-class. Everyone can celebrate private birthday as they want, but here to say lapidar, well, was just like that and is just like that, is not acceptable to us. [[Abg. Rädler: How was Haider?]] – Well, you have to ask yourself the question of how this happens in Lower Austria, because you have to look at yourself in the mirror and look carefully at how we turn it off and turn it off. We will do this! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The lapidar driving on the part of the ÖVP, it probably can't be. sarcasm is not appropriate here; I say that quite clearly to you. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] It is also interesting that the director is the festival speaker, Mr. Kürner. I would be interested in what he said, probably as proud as he is, that the celebration takes place at school, the big contribution the students make, what the students learn when they are allowed to serve at such a feudal feast but no cents get drinking money that everything is so great, the state does anyway take over the costs. That's the question. We also need to consider how we deal with people and young people, especially in the country of tourism Austria, and I am very glad that we have people and young people who still attend tourism schools. But to misuse these facilities for private purposes is last-class. But we stay on it. Mrs Minister, I hope we have found a partner here in you so that these things can be stopped in the future so that we can no longer discuss such things in the House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e19633	No one is reporting on this. The debate is thus closed. [[18:06:49]] The continuation of the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e19654	I will resume the negotiations on points 8 and 9 of the agenda. Mr Magistrate is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Hammer. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e19678	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Today, we are adopting the amendment of the Security Police Act, and I can say this out of conviction, a further effective and important step towards the prevention and control of terrorism. It has already been discussed a lot today, and of course you can ask yourself again and again: Is it necessary and are certain measures justified? But it is already so, and we should recognise that too, and it turns out again and again that the forms of terrorism have changed in recent times. and that it is becoming more and more a matter of individual, individual, individual, which can only be traced to the tracks by certain extensions of risk research. I believe that this threat is realistic and it is also necessary to protect the Austrian population consistently from it. It is also necessary to give the appropriate instruments and instruments to our authorities. It has also been shown from Mrs Minister's remarks that there is a very sensitive and balanced approach in Austria and that these instruments are really only used if it is justified and also reasonable. I would also like to say to this novel that I believe that it will be so good in the use of these instruments on the rights of freedom, taking into account the fundamental rights of people. We have not made this debate easy. A great deal of expertise has been brought into the whole parliamentary discussion. We have carried out hearings and, finally, we have also included many amendments in the parliamentary deliberations. Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, I would ask you to have a little more confidence in the rule of law in general, because it is not always the same abuse, and there is not always a risk of abuse, but there should be a certain basic confidence that these instruments are used carefully and carefully. That is why it is reasonable for this novel to be given approval and to take an important step in the fight against terrorism, because, finally, it does not take more rights of freedom for people, but ultimately gives them more freedom, because terrorist attacks affect the freedom and right of individuals. For my group, for the Austrian People's Party, I would like to maintain a specific position – because your request also calls for a summit on citizens' rights: We have always been and have always been the party for the rights of freedom, for the individual, for the rights of the individual. I believe that the citizens' rights and security are well removed from us. We will be very sensitive, but, of course, where it is necessary to safeguard individual freedom and rights, we will also take appropriate measures in the field of security. And since the woman minister is there: The security and civil rights are in good hands with the ÖVP and, above all, with our Mrs. Federal Minister for the Interior. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e19734	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Widmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e19755	Mr President. High house! It is difficult to question whether the security and civil rights of the EIA are in good hands. [[Call the ÖVP: With certainty!]] If this Security Police Act tightens the concept of advanced risk research, then I would ask you from the ÖVP, but also from the SPÖ, the second government side, to also ask for the concept of extended conscience research, namely to what extent that is still true of what you are proposing here, but in fact not to implement outside. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, in connection with the Security Police Act, we are also concerned with serious implications for citizens' rights. We have already discussed this today. This is about interference in privacy, the sprinkling of individuals, and in this context one must also mention the issue of ACTA. ACTA has been a well-known term in recent weeks. ACTA is nothing but that you carry peaks of large corporations, from large press houses, from printing companies, from media publishing ultimately to the children's room, into the youth room, into the universities, my dear ladies and gentlemen. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Pendl.]] Therefore, ACTA, as it is, is totally opposed, because it is at risk of the principle of net neutrality, of questioning the Internet in itself, of the SPÖ in an open letter to the Federal Government, ladies Ablinger and crochet, as far as I know, worrying about it – i.e. I would be a little quiet and not so premeditated, because in the first row the SPÖ – because freedom of expression can also be undermined, because it would call the Internet into question as the largest platform of knowledge in the world, because ultimately the right to knowledge is undermined. All of this has accordingly formulated the SPÖ, not just two Members. Many country presidents, unions of SPÖ have formulated this, on APA-OTS it is to be read. I am in favour of formulating this extra-parliamentary protest not only in the form of open letters to the government, but what you demand from the SPÖ Group, parts of you, will be voting accordingly. I'm excited how you're going to argue here. It is about monitoring data traffic, which is now to be strictly monitored on Internet platforms – up to civil, private and private complaints that I have put forward – from corporations to private individuals, so simply cannot be left in the room, because this would ultimately mean, in the most extreme form, that out of the Internet as we know it. That is why there are also a lot of protests worldwide, but mainly across Europe, and it was also the youth who used this instrument of the Internet more strongly. In addition to the SPÖ letter, there are also isolated votes from the ÖVP, colleague Köstinger, for example, who argued accordingly. State Secretary Waldner has also mentioned that ACTA is not acceptable in the present form, because everyone wants only one thing: free knowledge on the free network. Some countries, such as Germany, Estonia, Slovakia, Cyprus and the Netherlands, have therefore not signed this ACTA at European level. Signed but not yet ratified in Parliament, such as Austria, such as Poland, the Czech Republic and Latvia. I'm very worried now. The government has formulated the need to wait until the ECJ has examined whether EU law is being violated by ACTA. And you all know that the ECJ usually questions and checks very economic, group-friendly laws. That's the one. The second thing is, it can be quite clear in this funnily worded wording that the ECJ does not find anything. Therefore, ACTA will ultimately be politically assessed. Do we want to have this, this braining on the net, into the youth rooms, into the universities, or do we want to save a free internet as we know it, also in the future for our youth, for the people, for the community? I warn the government of one, i.e. now waiting for it to be examined in one, two years to find out: Yes, the ECJ has said, everything is in butter anyway, fits anyway, and you agree with that again. Therefore, there can only be one thing to put the current Council of Ministers decision into the trash bin and to renegotiate at European level on the part of the Government of ACTA, including with regard to the rights to be respected. I shall therefore make the following final request: [[Quoted print version removed]] It is exactly the wording the SPÖ used in the open letter. I'll get together last time. [[The speaker unrolls a poster on which in the background several small-printed text pages and in the foreground with large letters the words “AD ACTA” can be seen.]] There is a very strong platform regarding ACTA. This document has also been sent to all Members: AD ACTA, let's put ACTA ad acta. I quote very briefly from this: ACTA does not protect against what it claims to achieve. Instead, this agreement criminalises the innocent, damages the economy and undermines our fundamental rights. Therefore: Let's put ACTA ad acta!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e19825	The motion for a resolution tabled is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e19882	Next speaker: Mrs Lueger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e19903	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I want to come back to the Security Police Act. The Security Police Act is a manual for the police in which rights and obligations are defined. I remember 1993 when it was created on our initiative to create a legal framework for the police. Crime has changed, yes, and the General Civil Code, the ABGB, has also changed further. [[Abg. Oils: What does the Civil Code have to do with it?]] We also need to make further adjustments here. The complexity of the issue is shown by the fact that we have been on the 27th since 1993. Novelle speaking. What does the novelle deal with? – The novelle deals with optimizing the powers of security executives, for advanced risk research, for individuals, for the powers against home-occupiers, but also with improving the protection of victims and optimising cooperation with youth welfare providers. These are two aspects which have not yet been accommodated by me in the debate today. One thing you can say: We have had a public hearing in the Committee on the Interior, and changes have also been made on the basis of the public hearing. We from the S & D Party have been massively committed to these changes. The amendments are therefore also in place, and contrary to what Mr Westenthaler said at first – would have You now had the right draft on your hands, then you would also have seen that § 21 has changed very well – this is always a prognosis decision in advanced risk research. This is because until now nothing has happened, but the legal protection officer – and this is not a newly created position that is now only available, this legal protection officer has been in place for ten years – has to approve it. You say he's dependent. [[Between call of the Abg. Ing. Westenthaler.]] Have you ever looked into the existing law, where it stands, how the legal protection officer is ordered? – It is located in the Ministry of Interior. That is true, Mr Westenthaler, but he will be appointed by the Federal Government on a proposal from the Federal Government after consulting the Presidents of the National Council and the Presidents of the Constitutional Court and the Administrative Court for a term of five years. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: That's why he's independent!]] That's in it now, too, and he's free and independent, and so he works. One important aspect that we have still brought in was that, after the extension of the risk investigation – the first one is limited to three months, it can be extended to another three months – then a cancellation obligation, which was an essential point for us, which is also to be controlled by the legal protection officer. The legal protection officer is also obliged to submit a report. This is also an existing regulation already contained in the law. We will therefore agree to this bill.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e19962	Next speaker: Mr Oellinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e19984	Ladies and gentlemen! Minister of the Interior! Norway was quoted today, Mr Breivik, by you, too, Mr Kößl. Norway has not applied these legislative means, but has declared, after this terrible attack, that it continues to attach great importance to respect and enforcement of bourgeois rights and freedoms. This is once a point to hold on to. In this situation, they would have had every reason to demand increased resources for the police, only, and so I am on the second point, that it would have used nothing, and that also knew the ones in Norway. Let me give you an example: Franz Fuchs. Actually, Mr Fazekas brought me the idea that he said: Franz Fuchs was set by the Rasterfachung. - That's not true. In Austria, even though there is this means that thanks to God have not been used to this day. It was certainly not applied to Franz Fuchs, Mr Fazekas. There have been quite traditional means, or Mr Fuchs has been taken to the line in the context of vehicle control, if one can say so in this context. At Mr Fuchs, on an isotope analysis at a certain explosion rate, it has been found that the perpetrator must obviously be from the South Styria. A perpetrator profile has been developed in which certain features – not all – have been found. Quite traditional means have been used there and not the increased resources. Now I ask you, Mrs Federal Minister: What would have been the use of these funds at Franz Fuchs? - Nothing. Franz Fuchs didn't use a cell phone. He wouldn't have been tracking the phone. No use would have been made of it, no more than Mr. Priklopil or the dungeon master of Amstetten, Mr. Fritzl. Because they act as single perpetrators, which is true of all, because they act completely inconspicuously outside, they would not be found that way. Last point: Mr Kößl! I think it was you who addressed the massacre in Erfurt. [[Abg. Kößl: Yes!]] Do you know what happened in Erfurt? – This is why the student finally went crazy because he was expelled from school. [[Abg. Kößl: But in advance! There's a history!]] There's already a history in this student. Of course, he's been playing a lot of computers. Should we now include all young people who play computers for over three hours in this individually extended risk research? - I'm sure not. [[Abg. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] All you've said is right next door. That's not how we're going. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kößl.]] Apply the very traditional means and see that the perpetrators are put! There's still enough to do.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e20056	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Gerstl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e20077	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Today, the Freedom Party and the BZÖ have seen the fundamental and freedom rights in particular restricted and said that this novelle does not meet the needs of legal protection and, above all, that the Legal Protection Officer would not be an appropriate instrument. [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: Right! You recognized it!]] To this end, I should like to draw the BZÖ's colleagues' attention to what was decided in the amendment to the 2006 Security Police Act in December 2005 in the National Council: Point 24 (Constitutional provision): Legal protection officer. Ladies and gentlemen, do you know who voted in favour of the Legal Protection Officer at the time? – It was the ÖVP, it was the SPÖ, and it was the Freedom Party. At the time, the BZÖ did not exist. In other words, many of the mandates sitting in here today were under the FPÖ coat and agreed to the legal protection instrument of the legal protection officer. If you show yourself today, Your disbelief and how you change your mind within a few years! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: Mr. Colleague, will you be deliberately stuck in the Stone Age?]] So you can no longer lead us behind the light with your arguments. Ladies and gentlemen, the second point that the Greens are constantly criticising is that the Legal Protection Officer is established in the Ministry of the Interior. The colleague of the SPÖ has already explained quite precisely that the legal protection officer is as guided as any judge is in accordance with the Security Police Act. [[Call the Greens: Difference!]] I ask you: What is a difference between a person who is exempt from the Constitution and is paid by the Ministry of the Interior and the person who has been set free of direction and is paid for by the Ministry of Justice? - None. Both are completely independent, according to the Austrian federal constitution. This also provides for appropriate protection so that no data abuse can take place. [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: a headache tablet because I need it now!]] [[Call the Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the legal protection officer is not anyone; the name has not yet been mentioned. He is probably one of the best criminal law professors we have ever had in the Austrian Republic. It is the emeritus university professor Dr. Manfred Burgstaller, a real Koryphae. He is highly recognized not only domestically, but also abroad. I believe that even you have never doubted his competence – neither by the Freeman nor by the BZÖ, nor by any other party. His independence has never been questioned by you. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: The one who speaks of accompaniment of suicides! Very competent!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz.]] They're just trying to make political change. I would therefore also like to present the opinion of the Legal Protection Officer on this amendment. Dr. Burgstaller – I quote from his opinion, which he presented to the committee – says: First: This government template has substantially improved overall legal and data protection. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: That's why he's suspicious!]] Secondly, The legal protection officer says that he will be able to keep the planned extended risk investigation against individuals whose need for terrorist prevention is plausiblely argued, in the strict limits of the rule of law. – I don't think you can say more about it. He also says that he considers that there is a level of legal protection that makes the data processing provided by the Government template appear to be well-responsible to protect constitutional institutions whose purpose is plausible. Since this has already been criticised, I would like to quote the statements made by the Legal Protection Officer that by means of a arrow transmitter one can also locate the companion of victims in the area of suicide or in the case of mountain accidents et cetera. To this end, the Legal Protection Officer says: The express approval in the law, such as the extension provided for in the Government template of § 53 para. 3b Security Police Law seems to me to be an urgent need, for it serves the protection of victims. - Quote. It serves to protect victims and does not reverse the fact that, as you say, innocent citizens are unjustly bullied. On the contrary: It serves the prevention and protection of Austrian citizens. In this sense, I am grateful that the Austrian police are given instruments to improve their activity in prevention, while at the same time providing the required data protection.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e20195	Next speaker: Mr Plessl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e20218	Estimated President! Estimated Minister of the Interior! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to take up some criticisms of the opposition and make it clear to the citizens, to the listeners and to the listeners in the House. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) In today's legislative text – even if the opposition does not want to be so – the criticism was included in the text that was partly justified. It has already been taken into account in the last Committee on the Interior by means of an amendment. This amendment contained necessary clarifications, first of all, when an intervention for the executive should now be possible, and second, when collected data should be deleted. Each member of the Committee on the Interior will be able to confirm that there have been serious changes from the initial position to the draft law which is now before the decision-making process. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to take up briefly the criticism regarding the legal protection officers. It has already been said by my previous speakers, but I think there should have been a misunderstanding by some Members in the opposition. They confuse the Human Rights Advisory Council with the legal protection officer, for there is a participation of the Federal Minister in the Human Rights Advisory Council. But with the legal protection officer – that has already been said – the Federal President is responsible for the appointment: on a proposal from the Federal Government after consulting the Presidents of the National Council and the Presidents of the Constitutional Court and the Administrative Court. What is particularly important is the required two-thirds majority for a legislative decision in this area. A constitutional provision reads as follows: ‘A limitation of its powers and its rights and obligations may be decided by the National Council only in the presence of at least half of its members by a majority of two thirds of the votes cast’. This shows the importance of the legal protection officer. Finally: The Legal Protection Officer shall draw up an annual report to the Subcommittee of the Committee on the Interior, the Standing Subcommittee of the Committee on Internal Affairs, the so-called Stapo Committee. It is therefore very important to draw up, discuss and question these reports. But something bothers me a little bit: We are now dealing with the Kampusch case in the Standing Subcommittee of the Committee on Internal Affairs. I would, at least once, aim at the colleagues of the FPÖ: How can it be – “Police scandal in the Kampusch case” – that a FPÖ congregation was active and conducted investigations? Of course, the paper also contains a very critical paper: What moved you to look for a daughter of Kampusch at school? – “You can believe me: I had a good reason for that.” I quote: “I am not allowed to say anything at all in the specific case.” There may be answers on Friday in the Subcommittee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e20268	Next speaker: Mr Scheibner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e20291	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Gerstl has challenged me because for the second time he has been policing against the opposition. That surprises me, because I think he is a very serious Member. Mr Gerstl, you are, I believe, a lawyer as far as I can remember. You will probably be aware of the difference between a legal guardian and an appointed judge. I don't think I need to separate that here. [[Call the FPÖ:Of course!]] Of course, that we have used the legal protection officer has also had a reason to be subject to subsequent control when it comes to measures that then applied, so that the person concerned is equipped with a judicial authority and function with the legal protection officer, a person who has been set free of direction – but not everyone who has been set free of direction, is therefore also equipped with a judicial authority and function! – may complain afterwards and be examined accordingly – in addition to other tasks. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: That's exactly how it is!]] But to present this here in these basically new and much more massive interventions, including those in fundamental rights, as follows: We will not need a judge – as we say as Vienna – because the legal protection officer is enough anyway!, that is not appropriate either. Franz Fuchs has been addressed here, and it has already been said that this has no influence from the methods at all. But it already has an influence because I remember very well how, in the investigation of the letter bombs, before finding Franz Fuchs as a perpetrator, one has turned party-politically motivated investigations in one direction. [[Abg. Grosz: A son of a social democratic family!]] Thank you for reminding me of this case, my colleague. If I can imagine this with today's possibilities of a technical nature and by this law now also legal! [[Abg. Grosz: wasn't that a red fox?]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: A good redr!]] Ladies and gentlemen, you can also be concerned that, for party-political reasons, you can control what you want afterwards in one direction. Just as the subscribers of a newspaper were lucky with house searches at the time, you might be able to make telephone surveillance et cetera today. The topic of fox is precisely another argument for rejecting this template for good reason.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e20392	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Aubauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e20413	Mr President. Estimated Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! We've heard a lot of details now. Let's see what the people in Austria want! They want social peace and security. In order to fulfil this security claim, the executive needs adequate means. We've heard it several times today: The times have changed, the police must be able to act in a timely manner. – That’s why, not from Jux and Tollery, this new security police law. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Not only groups, but also individuals can pose a threat. That is why it makes sense to extend risk research to individuals. The key question is: Do citizens' rights stay on the track? – Ladies and gentlemen, I understand concerns and fears in this regard. We also take these concerns seriously. However, the assessments of the Data Protection Council are decisive. It is he who has to protect the rights of the Austrians. What does the Data Protection Council say? – The Data Protection Council gives green light to the innovations. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: But this is Mr Maier! What does he want to protect?]] This is an important argument: Monitoring may be carried out only if the so-called legal protection officer agrees. I'll make this clear again: This legal protection officer shall be independent and independent. The latte for approval is very high, namely: The foreseeable danger to humans and things must be high, and the person must like an attack and also have means to do so, for example, explosives. If that's not the case, there's no consent, and then the police won't go out either. That's quite clear! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Do you really believe that Mr. Maier is protecting who?]] Ladies and gentlemen! There are only two options: Either we do nothing against possible threats – with all the consequences – or we respond to changed conditions. The People's Party has decided to respond and, as far as possible, to avoid dangers to citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e20483	Next speaker: Mr Pendl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e20504	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition! If a law is not observed, the breach is. Off. I'm sorry, but One thing I say to you – Mr Fichtenbauer, I would not laugh –: You're not doing a good service to the police and the rule of law, I'm telling you! I'm telling you this in all clarity, because if what the tomorrow's newspapers publish is only right in the approach, then you should really consider whether this procedure has happened, that police officers work in this way without a legal basis, without a service order, only to do any pseudospinnery – I would have said soon. [[The speaker shows the “Kronen Zeitung” with the headline: “Polize-Scandal in the Kampusch case”.]] A proper legal basis in the field of internal security – and that it is respected, that is no question at all – is the prerequisite for our police officers to do excellent work. Most of the police do excellent work, and you shouldn't be defrauded, they didn't deserve it. There you can laugh what you want. They should actually be thanked – for the services they provide for the Republic and for the citizens. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I would really look at the legal basis in Norway. I'd look at what law matrices are constantly mixed here. I can only always invite you: Let's try to judge just sensitive lawmateries objectively! [[Abg. Oils: Yes! Listen, please!]] When considering whether or not a fundamental right is in place, it must always be clear that it is protected by the rule of law, by law, by data protection law in all areas. But when you consider protecting a citizen or a citizen – with or without interference in the fundamental right – you have to confess color at some point. That's it. I think we have a common commitment to protect our citizens from these activists and terrorists. We didn't make it easy. I say that in all clear terms. Dear colleague Westenthaler! There can be quoted, as much as you want. We ourselves were confronted with the fact that experts did not even quote the government template, but the first ministerial draft. This is to be read; everyone who was there knows that. I don't want to explain what I think about it. So I would say, the matter is committed, then you should really discuss honestly what lies here rather than what was the first ministerial draft. We have carried out a hearing, we have held several meetings, we have talked to all the experts, we have tabled a huge amendment that is here, and, if you would like to look at it, we have put together from the first drafts of the section on the government template, the hearing up to the committee on the amendments and all that exists, an ordinary, a rule of law which represents the basic instrument for our colleagues of the executive. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: All experts were against it!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: A Spittelgesetz! It's a shabby pointed law!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, more can be said about this law. Unfortunately, due to international development God is necessary, otherwise we do not need to discuss it at all. Don't think about how words here would turn out from this speaker's mouth if something happened to us in this direction. That is why, in this sensitive area of internal security, the appeal always comes from me: Let's try not to polemise here – we all know that anyway! Can we not even cut this and discuss it very objectively in the interests of our citizens and decide on a good law? – I would like to invite you very cordially.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e20582	Next speaker: Mr Obernosterer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e20603	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I do not think that the words of my previous speakers are much more added. Because today the name Fox has already fallen and Mr. Oellinger said that this revision of the law would not actually help in the case of fox because he did not have a mobile phone: The Fuchs case was in 1997, and I'm sure that in today's time Fuchs would certainly have a cell phone. [[Abg. Oil: Fritzl!]] [[Further calls to the Greens.]] But, as I said, without even more specific attention now: You can believe we don't want a police state, we don't want total surveillance, but what we need for security in Austria is that we create legal conditions for the police that meet today's demands so that the police in Austria can guarantee security. As has been said, the task of policy is to ensure it. Let's take pride in this: Austria is one of the safest countries in the world. And some law simply needs innovation in order to continue to guarantee this security. This is only possible for the police if it can work in the latest aspects, and we are responsible for creating the relevant laws. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e20646	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Maier. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e20673	Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I would like to comment briefly on the BZÖ's request for an ACTA Atlantic negotiations. When I read that, I mean, I don't trust my eyes. - Who wants to renegotiate ACTA, Hohes Haus? [[Between call of the Abg. Ing. Westenthaler.]] The negotiations on Acta were basically wrong. I call you three reasons why it is not allowed to renegotiate Acta and Acta: During the negotiations on Acta, no international bodies were involved, no UN bodies. It was the USA, Japan, Australia, Canada and the European Union. [[Abg. Brosz: That is why it has been decided in the Council of Ministers! Probably!]] It was in no way involved in civil society. [[Abg. Oillinger: The government has agreed!]] And I'm holding on: If we discuss copyright, the digital environment, this can only be done at international level. [[Abg. May. Stefan: Who are you telling?]] The second point is why this request is wrong: Acta is already ad acta. The ratification process is suspended in Europe and in all Member States. In Austria, Hohes Haus, my venerations Ladies and gentlemen, the ratification process has not even begun! [[Abg. Brosz: Has the government decided: yes or no?- Oh, my God!]] The third point is why this request is wrong Because this agreement does not distinguish between product falsifications and brand falsifications and the digital environment. [[Abg. Grosz: Has the Council of Ministers decided?]] High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Remember the discussions in the Financial Committee on Product Piracy, where we all felt that counterfeiting of medicinal products, counterfeiting of car spare parts, spare parts for aircraft are unacceptable and must be combated. That's what I'm calling myself. But what I absolutely reject is the rules in the digital environment, and I only draw attention to the fact that the Commission is currently trying to make a decision by the European Parliament through IPRED and to introduce new criminal provisions for all Member States. As far as I'm concerned, to the callers: I have been dealing with Acta since 2007 and have been the only Member of Parliament to raise parliamentary questions. [[Between call of the Abg. Ing. Westenthaler.]] And I wonder, Did all those who now reject Acta sleep?
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e20787	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Rosenkranz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e20822	Mr President. The last statements, particularly from the Government Bank, still force a supplementary opinion. This accusation, which was expressed against a police officer who was acting as a representative in the liberties environment, must be strongly condemned. The possibilities of criminal law and disciplinary law are certainly appropriate here. The Freedom Party strongly distances itself from such practices. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] But now to the agenda item itself: Legal protection officer. Mr Gerstl, if we were at a level of law a few years ago, we would also have other budgets and the like. If you have introduced something that you can see afterwards that it is not enough, you have to think about it. It was a Christian-Democratic political politician who could also become smarter, and this would also be a good thing for you, Mr Gerstl. Then: Legal protection officer and what you have described, of course, is true, with no wisdom and the like, also that at present the person – in this case I would even like to speak of a personality – who clothes out this office is over all doubts, only, Judge he will not be in any way. Not even if you get the expertise from a supreme court. What is a judge, a tribunal within the meaning of the ECHR? – that there is still a check. Where is the legal protection of the individual, he says: The decision of the Legal Protection Officer was a false one!Unknown term type: "%s".? Where is the subsequent control? [[Abg. Kößl: Parliament!]] What act is it, then, that is to be put in place? – Is it a knowledge, or what is it? Where can I fight it? I miss it. And that is the question which will certainly also be discussed in connection with the question of reform of administrative jurisdiction. These are areas where you say there's not every day of the night. In other words, there is an urgent need to do something to provide real legal protection, which is particularly important in the case of restrictions on fundamental rights and freedoms. The second thing I want to share here: Whenever something happens, if possible abroad, it will be immediately enchanted out something that is in the drawer so that you can become more strict. It seems to me like a mechanism. And there's a very valuable suggestion of the Bar Association Day: Is there already already an evaluation of all the measures that are developing like a spotter in the direction of circumcision of civil fundamental and freedom rights? Is there an evaluation? Did the previous cuts bring anything at all? Is there statistics before making further cuts? – I don't think so! We liberals are about to want to be a security party and also to have to be because it has earned Austrians. But fundamental and freedom rights are simply an opportunity to think about whether there are also abuses in here. And if it is just said that worldly reasons can be used here to run sniff: I would be delighted to see how this would explain, for example, a security minister, Pilz or Oillinger.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e20872	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We come to the votes. We shall vote separately on each of the Committee's proposals. First: vote on a draft SPG-Novelle resolution in 1657. Mr Pendl, Mr Kößl, Mr President, have tabled an amendment. First of all, I shall vote on the parts affected by the amendment and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. Mr Pendl, Mr Kößl, Mr President, have tabled an amendment which refers to Article 1. Whoever joins these amendments, I ask for a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft and the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I would ask those Members who give their consent here to a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. If you also give your consent at third reading, I ask for your sign. – This is accepted by a majority. The draft was therefore adopted at third reading. Debates of the European Parliament Steinhauser, colleagues and colleagues on the introduction of a hidden defence. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask for a sign for the motion for a resolution. – The application does not find a majority. He is therefore rejected. Opinion on the request from the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection to take note of its report 1660. Whoever agrees, I ask for a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. Debates of the European Parliament Widmann, colleagues on ACTA Atlantic negotiations. If you support this motion for a resolution, I would ask for a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. [[18:51:34]] 10. Point Report of the Committee on Internal Affairs on the Government Template (1388, e.g._Other Organiser Agreements between the Government of the Republic of Austria and the Government of the United States of America on the deepening of cooperation in preventing and combating serious crimes (1658, e.g.)
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e20983	We're coming to 10. Agenda item. The debate is accompanied by Mr Herbert. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e21009	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) The government agreement under discussion has already produced very divergent opinions in the Committee, and this is quite right, as I mean, because there is a lot to be criticised. I should like to express the essential points that FPÖ is also calling for as a negative. There is once again the relatively sluggish formulation of who is actually the target group about who is going on in this agreement. The agreement is intended to serve to strengthen cooperation between America and Austria in preventing serious crimes. It is intended to enable the exchange of personal and other data, because – and this is the interesting formulation – “some facts justify acceptance”. Therefore, there must be no reasonable suspicion and there must have been no special investigation measures. This is the case, if, salopp said, someone has an assumption that one can easily justify at any time, and where then the prerequisite is that one is either involved in or trained in a terrorist or other serious crime. This is a formulation that leaves a range that, as we believe, is incompatible with our criminal access, with our criminal context. So, abused interpretations are open here. I'll get to the next point: The exchange of data with America from this point of view, which is very easy to achieve in the face of abusive interpretation or application, is actually very difficult from the inside, since we know that the data protection standards in America are not comparable to the domestic data protection regulations – if I would say that this would be a very gross understatement. There are no data protection standards there in fact. And if you still feel that the various intelligence services, which often compete with each other, can take place another, unwanted channelling of the data we transmit, then this is more worrying. Another problem in the context of data protection is that once transmitted data can hardly be deleted. While there is the possibility to call on the Data Protection Commission as an interface, the Data Protection Commission has no executive rights. That is, if an Austrian citizen wants to delete data transmitted to America or have taken from any directories, then it is almost impossible for him to do so. The point on i is Article 12 of this agreement – I may briefly quote it – is: ‘Personal data showing racial or ethnic origin, political views, religious or other beliefs or membership in trade unions or relating to health and sexual life may only be made available if they are particularly relevant for the purposes of this Agreement.’ We have already been told in advance that this is actually a protection provision that should serve the protection of those Austrians from whom data is transmitted. If I have a bilateral agreement, which is based on mutual exchange of information, then, I believe, can be achieved through this protection provision. It is a very easy way of becoming a bearer of debt. And then, for me, there are two essential aspects. First: Who in Austria determines what sexual orientation an Austrian or an Austrian has? Who determines the union membership in Austria? And above all: How can this be seen in the context of this agreement, where, contrary to American self-understanding, the framework conditions are quite different? That is, all in all, it is more crucial that, according to the SWIFT agreement, after the passenger data storage is a one-way street of home data towards the USA. The data-highway towards America celebrates happy originals. And it is probably less about satisfying our needs than rather about satisfying American imperialism. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] For this reason, this agreement should be rejected just as SWIFT was opposed, as the passenger data agreement was rejected. Because we have no understanding of this when dealing with the data of our citizens, the Austrians, such salopp, not to say, sloppy.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e21074	Next speaker: Mr Kößl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e21095	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! International crime can only be fought internationally. Such agreements, as we decide with America today, are, as I believe, a useful addition to the Prümer Treaty, which we have been using very intensively since 2005, with the BENELUX countries, with Germany, France, even in the meantime with ten European countries and in addition with Norway. This is a success story: By 2011, 153,000 DNA hits and 6 177 matches were achieved in fingerprints. I believe that this is a great success story in the fight against crime in general. Of course, every data transfer is a very sensitive matter. And, of course, I am involved in all the considerations when it means that personal data in particular must be treated very sensitively. If we want to fight crime successfully if we want to carry out successful educational work, the data transfer here in Europe shows that this is a success story. If we look at international networking, international organised crime in all its appearances, then, I think, we cannot conclude an agreement with America here, in the direction that we naturally compare fingerprints and subsequent DNA traces with America. But one thing has to be said clearly: The data will be anonymized, and only when a match is made will data be exchanged in the course of a request for legal assistance. So I think that we have taken all the considerations out of data protection here in Austria in order to reach a good agreement with the USA here. [[President Dr. Graf takes over the chairmanship.]] In addition, the Treaty provides for the consolidation clause. If America does not comply with the requirements of this agreement in various areas, then of course we can get out of the way. But given that America has around 3 million media and we 150 000, I think it certainly has great benefits for the Austrian survey machinery is if this agreement is actually implemented.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e21140	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Steinhauser. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e21162	Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, we need to know that this agreement has preceded a plumbering attempt by the United States. They simply and simply said to Austria that if you do not sit in the negotiating table, we will introduce the visa requirement for Austrian citizens on journeys to the United States. This is, of course, a great threat, and this has also been shown by the Austrian Ministry of the Interior, and so it has come to this agreement. This agreement, regardless of all the criticism, has caused a major conflict, because the European Union was in the middle of negotiations with the United States and has tried to bring in relatively high standards. And the United States, according to the series, has called the European countries individually to the negotiating table, including Austria, and, of course, has failed with a much stronger negotiating position all these efforts of the European Union to bring high standards into police data exchange. And the Austrian Ministry of the Interior has made a valuable contribution to weaken Europe's negotiating position. You have to say that. Content: What are our criticisms? Two criticisms: The scope of application is far too far. On the one hand, the data may already be exchanged in the event of so-called serious crimes. These are contractually defined crimes with a criminal framework from one year onwards. In Austria, the crime is defined by three years. The second point is that data transmission may also be carried out for reasons of prevention, namely: if special circumstances give rise to research. Now we need to know that the Ministry of Home Affairs is not particularly delicate. There are, among other things, documented cases where photography has been defined as a suspense behaviour away from tourism institutions, which has been defined as a conspicuous behaviour in front of strategically important institutions by the Ministry of Home Affairs. The problem with this agreement is, we do not know whether the Americans' approach to preventing crime in connection with terrorism is actually there or not. That's a problem. The second problem is that there is no effective legal protection. Once the data are out of the country, the citizens concerned have no rights because there are no direct rights in the United States. I have no right of cancellation, I have no right to information, I have no right to correct. That is, when the records are gone, I'm powerless, and that's a classic legal deficit. And neither does it help to complain to the Austrian data protection authority, which can then require a change in the United States, because if I have no obligation to provide information about which data is stored in America, I cannot assess whether they are deleted or changed. That is why we shall vote against this agreement. It draws like a pattern through the policies of the Ministry of the Interior: There are legal protection deficits where you look. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e21210	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Maier. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e21231	Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I share some of the concerns expressed in this agreement, but I would like to agree to this agreement because there are sustainable reasons. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: A real data protector!]] Let me explain these reasons in all clarity. As an Austrian Data Protection Council and thus as an advisory body of the Federal Government in 2008 we took a very clear position on the first draft of the USA. We are the Federal Government's advisory body and have transmitted our ideas and demands. Part of these demands is now in the Convention. Mr Herbert has already mentioned one point, the possibility that the Data Protection Commission may be switched on if there is a suspicion that data will be used against the agreement. But what we have as the only thing – this is not in any of the other bilateral treaties that exist so far in Europe, and there are currently 21 bilateral agreements – this is a sisting and termination clause. In other words, Austria may terminate from this agreement itself if the USA uses data contrary to this Agreement. Such a scheme does not have the Germans, do not have the Dutch, do not have the French. High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! I see the problem similar to that of Mr Steinhauser. It was, of course, an extortion. There was, of course, pressure on Austria as on the other countries, and one has tried to play the countries against one another. A bilateral agreement has been concluded with each country, and then the Lisbon Treaty came. Since the Lisbon Treaty, the legal situation has been different. This is a question of whether Member States should conclude such agreements or whether the European Union should. We believe that this is a common area of law, a legal area where there must be the same standards in the privacy field, in the fundamental right area. Therefore, we have also argued very clearly in the Committee on the Interior and have pointed out that, in bilateral agreements, the countries are being played against each other, which is the opposite of a common area of law. We have therefore already tabled the following resolution in the Committee on the Interior, and this resolution comes to the vote today: '1. The relevant members of the Austrian Federal Government are invited to take action against the EU Commission to ensure that this proposed EU framework agreement is concluded with the US as soon as possible with the high data protection standards and that EU Member States are constantly informed of the status of negotiations. 2. Furthermore, the competent members of the Federal Government are invited to submit annually to the National Council and the Data Protection Council a report on the application and experience of the ‘Prümlike Agreement’.’ This report gives us the opportunity to take any necessary steps in Austria, to review the provisions of the agreement, or to cancel this agreement with the USA at all. High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I would like to point out that we are currently discussing the basic data protection regulation, a proposal from the Commission and also a directive to regulate the use of data and the exchange of data across Europe in the field of justice and police. These high standards, which are laid down here, are, of course, also to be the standards that are taken into account in the framework agreement with the USA. In Europe, we need an agreement with the USA that meets the standards of the Charter of Fundamental Rights or the Convention of the Council of Europe. As the Federal Government's Data Protection Council, we have recommended this procedure, and I hope that it will come to the conclusion of this framework agreement as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e21268	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Westenthaler. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e21289	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Two preliminary remarks: Firstly, I believe that Austria needs a new chairman of the Data Protection Council – and not a willing Member who does not know when it is me or I – a Member who either agrees with or takes the flight out of the hall, with any restriction and any loophole of data protection, because he is too weak to produce himself here and to represent a corresponding position within the meaning of Austrian data protection and in the sense of Austrian data. Mr Maier, step back, you've failed for a long time, you just don't know! [[BZÖ and FPÖ are welcome.]] What you are presenting here is really a scandal, namely to speak against it at every committee meeting, but then to vote for it or simply to leave the hall because it is unpleasant for the Data Protection Council President. If you can't, just leave it! Really, leave it! There are professionals who really fight like a lion until the end for personal data, for the protection of personal data. You haven't done this for a long time! You should really resign, Mr Maier! We demand that this would be a good thing for Austria. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Second preliminary remark: I can remember that this has been quite exactly ten years ago – Mr Jarolim, now that you and me have just been on a request, don't be so, you are so happy with me on requests, don't forget that! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Jarolim.]] – Just about ten years ago, as a clubman of the FPÖ, I allowed myself to put an idea for discussion, because of the situation at the time of security threat: It should actually be taken fingerprints, fingerprints from the population, namely to the security of the same ones, in order to be able to investigate criminals, terrorists. That's all we've needed, from hooves like over there! Awesome, scandalous! How can you? That's terrible! That's terrible! You all remember the discussion. Today it is not about taking fingerprints, because they are already taken anyway, but because we are still going to go abroad, to America send, including personal data, whenever they want. That's the much bigger scandal. Many colleagues, particularly Mr Herbert, but also Mr Steinhauser, have already said this: The grey area and the abuse area that is being opened here is really remarkable. That in the connex with what we discussed at the previous item on the agenda, where people can very easily get to the crossroads of the investigations, which can't do anything for that. That is why it is all the more sad that you are now going here and, for example, targeting religious attitudes, on the political attitude, on sexual life, on health. All of this does not exclude this agreement. It is not excluded, but it is actually very nebulos about how such data are used. And now the summit is coming, and that was very remarkable for me: The summit is actually the one that the Ministry of the Interior officially does not know whether such data has been stored and collected at all or not. That is what the Minister of the Interior in the Committee has told us. It told us we can't tell you if these data are stored, political attitude, sexual life, health, because we don't know for ourselves whether we have it stored. Now there are two possibilities, Mrs Minister, either you are very blue-eyed and naïve and really want to make us know that there is no such data. Okay, then you're excluded from any criticism. Or you say and the Ministry of the Interior here consciously says the untruth and foggs what is actually a matter, namely that there are very well records. Mr Steinhauser has raised a question – and in this case I am very grateful to Mr Steinhauser, I am surprised that he has not referred to it today. He wanted to know, very well, which records are actually as stored in the protection of the Constitution, as many and why. Answer – very lapidar –: ‘A reply to these questions cannot be made on the basis of the high administrative burden required.’ So what now? Is there no data? – Then there can be no high administrative burden either. Or is there already so much data that they cannot be made available at all because you no longer recognize yourself in the thickness of this stored and collected personal data of citizens? And this is particularly unfortunate in Konnex with this agreement with the USA, because if it were so that you didn't have the data anyway, then you could have said that to the Americans. Then you could have said: Friends, we can't write that in, because it's not stored with us. That is why we cannot make them available either. But it's explicit, expressis far into the agreement. And we don't understand that, nor do all the other criticisms. As far as the severity of the act and the punishment of a year is concerned, I have to say which offences fall under it, you know, too. There is a difference between America and Austria. In fact, data protection culture in America is in general a completely different one from Austria, and it must be noted that it is now suffering more and more damage in Austria too.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e21375	Mrs Bundesminister Mag spoke. Mikl leader reported. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e21398	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. High house! In all criticism, I must say that we are taking a right step towards better cooperation between Austria and the USA when it comes to preventing and combating terrorism and serious crimes. Data exchange is always a sensitive matter, but of course there is data exchange at both levels, i.e. mutual data exchange. You all know that I have a principle: Those who say data exchange must also say data protection! And that's why it was so important to us in the negotiations that a focus on data protection is above all. And that we have succeeded, the agreement shows, because more than half of the agreement deals exclusively with data protection. And that this was well negotiated, was also clearly confirmed by the Data Protection Council. Of course, we also need the legal protection of those concerned, i.e. they can contact the Data Protection Commission. It has already been addressed today as a specific matter, a very special one, namely the termination clause. We in Austria are the only ones who have been able to enforce a termination clause, which has also been set out here in the agreement. This, as I mean, can be seen as success in the truest sense of the word. It was equally important to us that we clearly limit the scope of application and that, of course, we proceed here also in accordance with the principle of the individual question. That is to say, there are no global general mass surveys, but of course there is a question only in individual cases according to the principle of hits or non-checks, where Austria then decides which data and to what extent these data are ultimately passed on to the USA. Of course, it is also crucial to control which data will be passed on, and this control is also the responsibility of the Data Protection Council. Of course, further steps need to be taken now, namely the implementing agreement. We will, of course, inform the Data Protection Commission on this subject permanently. And, of course, it is our responsibility to report annually to the National Council and the Data Protection Council what happened with regard to this Agreement, that is, the application of this Agreement, how often data has been exchanged. To sum up, we can say with all our criticism: We have negotiated well, we have reached an agreement like no other state. We have really made sure that the principle of data protection and legal protection is taken into account. And I firmly believe that our agreement is a good basis for further negotiations at European level.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e21444	The next item is the speech by Mr Hornek. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e21466	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! High house! The events of recent years in the fields of cross-border crime and international terrorism necessarily lead to marked and intensive cooperation at international level in the police and justice sectors must. The agreement negotiated with the USA serves to prevent and combat serious crimes. The scope of the Agreement is limited exclusively to terrorist and serious crimes. Heavy crimes are understood as crimes threatened with a penalty from one year onward. With regard to automated queries, for example fingerprints or DNA profiles, in accordance with Article 4 and Article 7, the exchange of information is based on the principle of individual queries. If, in the course of an automated query, a fingerprint is used, this fingerprint is provided with an identification number. The United States does not have direct access to the personal data of Austrians under this Agreement. Only in the course of another step can the United States receive information about the person concerned due to a fingerprint and an identification number. There is also the possibility of mutual information on serious crimes with a transnational dimension and terrorist offences under precisely standardised conditions, even without prior request, provided that the interests of one of the two Parties are affected. The Federal Minister has already pointed out that this agreement between the United States of America and Austria is one of the best agreements in these 21 countries. As far as legal protection is concerned, the Convention contains an improved position of the person concerned compared to other States, because it does not have to address itself to the US authorities with the complaints, but can be done indirectly through the Federal Ministry of the Interior or the Data Protection Commission. To sum up, this agreement between the United States and Austria is an important mosaic to increase security in our home country.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e21517	The next item is the speech by Mr Mayerhofer. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e21538	Mr President. Appreciate Mrs Minister! The protection of privacy is the meaning and purpose of data protection. This should be at the heart of all considerations to hand over personal data to a third country with a completely different legal culture, including the interests of data protection in the USA. It says now: “Personal data from which () – in Article 12 this is so cited – show political views, religious or other beliefs, or membership in trade unions or concerning health () – may only be made available if they are particularly relevant for the purposes of this agreement.” – So it is not even worse at all. Until this document was dealt with, I was not aware of the scope of these intentions. And I'm convinced that's how many fellow citizens do. If they had been aware of this decision, they would have filled our mailboxes today and would have asked us, as in other areas, to reject it. We'll be happy to do that too. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] What are the concerns of the Austrians that can be so important that these data are made available to a non-European state without If and But? Who honestly believes to be able to fight a terrorist? You, Mrs. Minister? - Not me! We do not believe that the freedom to respect the subjective rights of secrecy, erasure, correctness of the data and information through independent data protection control have been discussed. Nor is protection – and this is particularly important – against excessive state investigation, as guaranteed by Austrian law with the fundamental right to privacy. And I find the negotiation procedure particularly unpleasant in the issue of the “Standard” of 24. ==References====External links== It quotes the officials who negotiated the agreement with the American gentlemen: “In a friendly tone, we were told in clear terms that there is nothing to negotiate, and our only option is a signature.” Madam Minister of the Interior! I'm beginning to fear. If the Austrians experience this, probably this too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e21593	Next speaker: Mr. Prince. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e21614	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The present agreement between Austria and the USA allows mutual access to fingerprint and DNA files, thus taking into account the current developments in the field of international terrorism, cross-border crime and the increasing mobility of the perpetrators. Strengthening international cooperation is the key to combating crime in an increasingly mobile world. For this reason, I very much welcome the fact that we now also conclude an agreement with the USA on a deepening of cooperation in preventing and combating serious crimes. The contents of the agreement have already been presented and explained in detail by my colleagues Kößl and Hornek. Those who want to prevent crime and commit criminals' crafts must also give the executive the opportunity to do so. This data exchange agreement places great importance on data protection. Questionnaires are only available on grounds of suspicion, and they are also precisely logged. Whoever ever thinks about the fact that something might possibly be misused, I would just like to remind him of the saying: “As the bad guy thinks, so is he.” We think it is a necessary and reasonable agreement. That is why we are happy to agree.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e21651	As the last one on this item on the agenda, Mr Neubauer is speaking on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. 3 minutes speaking time is set. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e21675	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr Maier, you said, of course, that the American approach is already questionable, because it was a sort of extortion attempt to suggest to the states that they would otherwise introduce a visa requirement. I can tell the honourable Members of the House that the visa requirement is actually de facto and de jure. This goes so far that I flew to Mexico, for example, and needed a so-called ESTA paper on my own for the overflight of the country of the United States of America. That means in German: Electronic entry permit system. You have to fill this out, otherwise you won't get an entry permit, not even a ticket to Mexico, because you fly over the country of USA. You don't get a ticket by ship, and you have to pay $15 for this document. Imagine Austria asking for 15 € for any plane flying over this country! Then we could clean up our budget within a year. And this visa requirement is practically already in place over this ESTA paper. To go ahead and explain today's decision-making with this argument is therefore ridiculous, dear Mr Maier, and you know it very well. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And do you know, ladies and gentlemen, what is asked in this ESTA paper? – Mr Neubauer, if you want to go to America or fly over it, do you intend a terrorist attack or another criminal act? – I want to know how many people have already answered this point with Yes. That would interest me! [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: Evaluation!]] So the data surveys on this ESTA paper go that far. Everything is asked by the skin color over the eye color. That's the true scandal! Mr Hornek, if you are here today as a bourgeois representative of the ÖVP and are aware of this agreement, knowing well that in 1848 these bourgeois rights were practically taken here around the corner of the Barricades in Vienna with the blood of the Austrians – with the blood of the workers, Mr. Maier – and today, with the argument of combating terrorism, all these bourgeois rights of the Austrians are to be tombed on this altar, I am really sorry. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In any case, the Austrian FPÖ Party will not agree to this drive.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e21733	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request of the Committee on Internal Affairs, the conclusion of the State Treaty in 1388 of the Supplements in accordance with Article 50. 1 Z 1 B-VG. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. [[Abg. New builder: It's for generating!]] We are now voting on the resolution relating to agreements between the Government of the Republic of Austria and the Government of the United States of America on the deepening of cooperation in preventing and combating serious crimes in the Committee's report 1658. [[Abg. Neubauer: (in the direction of ÖVP) What is it, Mr Auer? Come on!]] I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to be a sign of approval. – This is also accepted by a majority. (E232.) 11th@item: inlistbox Point Report of the Committee on Internal Affairs on the motion for a resolution 1809/A by Mr Günter Kößl, Mr Otto Pendl, colleagues on a Federal Act amending the Civil Service Act 1986 – ZDG (1659, p. [[19:30:35]]
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e21804	We're on our way to the 11th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). 3 minutes of speech time are adjusted in a wishful manner – please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e21832	Mr President. Dear ladies Federal Ministers! Ladies and gentlemen! As you know, former civil servants have had until the completion of the 28th century. the possibility of applying for the cancellation of their civil service obligations in order to be able to provide the service as an institution in the public security service. That means, until the completion of the 28th century. Former civil servants were also admitted to the police service for years. This age limit, with the maximum age provided for in respect of entry into the executive service, applied to the Civil Service Service Law. However, through the amendment of the Civil Service Law 2011 the age limit for entry into executive service was dropped. The logical consequence of this is, in my view, that this age limit should also be removed in the Civil Service Act. And this is happening today in the novel to the Civil Service Act, which is under discussion. From my point of view, this is a measure to be welcomed. And, ladies and gentlemen, to welcome the many great achievements of young people doing civil service is to thank them. It is clear that a number of services without civil servants are no longer possible under the requirements of scarce financial resources. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, civil service is an important engine of Austrian social life – whether in rescue or health transport, in use for the disabled, in the environment, in the care of drug addicts, in agriculture, or – new – in childcare. Main employees are supported everywhere, and valuable services are provided. As a Red Cross official, I would like to take a closer look at the role of civil servants in rescue and health transport. In 2011, 5 925 civilians were employed in rescue and medical transport. Without them, the high-quality transport system cannot be maintained. That is, if we didn't have them, they would have to be replaced by major employees. The additional cost of this would move in millions of heights, and they would have to be carried by the public hand again. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, all measures which call into question the services of civil service must be rejected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e21877	Mrs Königsberger-Ludwig is next spoken. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e21898	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) The possibility for civilians to join the police has not been given that long. There's been this possibility for about a year. Since then, it has been possible for former civil servants to submit to the Civil Service Agency a request for redundancies from civil service. They are then admitted to the police's selection procedure. At the time, we wanted to make this change so that even more young men could be called into question for the police service, so that even more young men can be addressed for the police service. ==References== In February 2012, the first four civilians were praised for the Ybbs police service. I think one can see that the law has been useful and that this law has actually opened up new opportunities for young men. Today's request has become necessary – and this has already been announced by Mr Singer – because the cancellation of civil service obligations will only last until 28. The age was possible, the civil service law was changed and the age of 28 for the police was also abolished. The Civil Service Act has now been adapted with this amendment. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) The Civil Service Act is actually a success story, which becomes clear to you when you look back at this story. Since 1974 there has been the Civil Service Act in Austria. The increasing numbers of civil servants show that civil service is a very popular form of service for young men, namely to provide military service. In 1974, 2.5 percent of young men were active in civil service and by 1991 this proportion increased to 8.1 percent. After the revision, when the question of conscience no longer had to be answered before a Commission, but simply a written statement sufficient that one would not provide the service with the weapon, the percentage of civilians in 1992 increased to 21.8 percent. Today, about a third of the young men perform civil service. In 2011, ladies and gentlemen, it was a record year in the field of civil service. Some 14,000 young men with military service have served civil service. The facts where he has been done have already been addressed by Mr Singer. In the rescue service, there were 5,925 young men, 2 584 in the disabled. And there are many other fields of activity for young men to perform civil service. It is also very gratifying that the needs of support organisations can be fully met. In 2010, a 94 percent coverage ratio was reached, and in 2011, this ratio was 97 percent. I think this also shows that fears regarding the reduction of the duration of civil service have not occurred and that organisations can consistently meet their needs. Dear ladies and gentlemen! I think there are two winners in civil service: Winner is society on the one hand, we are all, because it is a strengthening cohesion in society. Civil servants are a support in the social, disability, care and rescue sectors; we have already heard that. I also think, however, that winners are those men, those young men who do civil service, because they acquire social skills because empathy can be aroused for social concerns and problems, because it makes sense, above all, to do so. In addition, people also recognize the value of solidarity in society, and of course they also acquire professional competence and professional skills. The winner of civil service is, as has been said, society, all of us, including the individual young man, who performs civil service. I too would like to thank all the young men who are doing all the civil service in the many organizations for us.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e21950	Next speaker: Mr Herbert. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e21971	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) The present proposal is indeed a matter of consensus, that is, we shall also be voting in favour of it. Although our basic, differentiated attitude to the BDG-Novelle, which is the basis for this request indirectly, is generally known, we see that the executive will face major human challenges in the coming years. We think that this request will probably not make the barrel of personnel overflow, but he will be able to help one day or another find necessary staff, nor will he speak of civilians who like to be on this matter: want to go to executive service. To this end, we want to make our contribution. In this sense, we will support this request. I am already pleased to welcome the first civil servants to the executive.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e22006	Next speaker: Mrs Windbüchler-Sushill. 3 minutes of speaking time are adjusted in a wishful manner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e22027	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The fact that those young men who have served the military service, the civil service, also the police service, where executives or judicial guards can take up the service was an important and necessary reform and a proper and necessary innovation. And there is no doubt that the current abolition of old age is one thing, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. But what cannot and will not exist is the orientation of civil service at home and abroad by the Minister for the Interior and by the Coalition. We hear again and again that this is a success model. In my view, I would like to pay tribute to Ladies and gentlemen, the Minister of the Interior until now has not dealt with the matter of civil service. Of the 13,500 civil servants there are 100 young men each year who complete their civil service abroad: for a whole year, 12 months, under adverse circumstances, no question, all over the world. [[Abg. New builder: Well, the circumstances there are not so difficult again!]] There are peace and social projects, projects in development cooperation, non-violent conflict resolution models, regional projects in former crisis areas, and as memorials they work in foreign Holocaust memorials, in museums, in archives and libraries. [[Abg. Neubauer: What are these bad circumstances?]] They care for Holocaust survivors in old age homes, work in youth encounters and, of course, in places of mass murder, as in Auschwitz, Theresienstadt or even in Marzabotto. – And all this against forgetting the horrors of National Socialism. Until recently, the Ministry of the Interior has supported every civil servant with €10,000 – €10,000 for a whole year abroad against forgetting the horrors of National Socialism. After Loipersdorf there was then suddenly a ten percent savings: 9 000 € per civil servant for accommodation, for foreign insurance, for food. And it was promised at the time that these €9 000 would be retained. The clubs then tried to be able to send their civil servants to the sites by means of donations. Since a few days – and therefore I am glad that the Minister of Finance is behind me – it is known that again 10 percent were saved in the symbol of the basic antifascist consensus that 10 percent were again saved in the symbol of reparation. This is not a success model, ladies and gentlemen, quite the opposite. They fixed the cuts over the heads of those concerned. They fixed the reduction over the heads of the clubs. You didn't talk to anyone about it. The Holocaust survivors, who have experienced care by Austrian civilians, may now have to get out without Austrian civilians, because at €8,100 a year, no civil servant will be able to provide the service for 12 months. [[Abg. New builder:... Civil service in Austria!]] They save with the symbol of the basic antifascist consensus, and that can in no way be a success model.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e22090	Next speaker: Mr Scheibner. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e22111	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! My group will also agree to this proposal, on the grounds that it is a consequence of the new law on civil service law, where the age limit for the police service has been abolished. However, I also say quite clearly – and this has now been a little off my mind in the debate – that I see the principle that someone who has registered for civil service and has finished civil service can then do police service with the weapon, before the existing constitutional situation, very critical. [[Abg. Neubauer:... Federal ministers will be!]] It can already be said that one does not want to do so, but rather that – and I would strongly support this – one wants to question the whole system of compulsory military service and to place activities on a voluntary basis with incentive systems, both in the social and military spheres. One can discuss this, but one must see it very objectively and not with any party political or electoral background. But now we have a constitutional situation, according to which there is a general obligation of military service and where there is civil service, and I consider it to be of course, in cases where the person concerned, the devotee, for reasons of conscience – for reasons of conscience! – refuse the service with the weapon. And wherever this is so, one has to pay attention to that, that is not at all a question, and where civil servants are used meaningfully, this is an important contribution to the social system in Austria. We also know, however, that not all of these civil servants really have these grounds of conscience. – But this is a constitutional situation! At the time, we were all in common for the abolition of the Commission, which should examine these grounds of conscience, because it was unreasonable, what often happened, which questions have been asked, but we have just introduced restrictions to comply with this constitutional principle of conscience somewhere: This was the different duration, and there were certain consequences associated with civil service. If someone says that he can't answer to shoot at people with his weapon, it is clear that he can't get a gun passport and that of course he can't work in an executive service, because there is clearly the use of weapons immanent. The fact that this changed a year ago, although the constitutional situation is the same, may be comprehensible if one follows the social mainstream, but in principle and truly clear and according to the law it is not in my opinion. That is why I would like to call once again for a fundamental debate on the future of our social services, which are important and necessary, and for the future of military defence to be put on a professional basis. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] In this sense I say here also the following, because I also lacked: As important and as worthy of recognition of the service for social institutions, it is also important and desirable for Austrian citizens to be willing to use their health and their lives in the sense of military service to the Austrian Federal Army for the Republic of Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e22154	As the last speaker on this item on the agenda, Mr Heinzl spoke for 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e22175	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Civil servants are an Austrian success story. 365 days a year they do indispensable work for society, such as the fire brigade, non-profit institutions or senior homes. Mr Westenthaler! All these 13,500 young men, who in 2010 alone decided to provide nine months of service to their fellow human beings, have certainly already contributed much more to Austrian society than you have ever done and will ever be able to contribute if I may tell you, Mr Westenthaler. [[Abg. Grosz: Mr Heinzl, what about Mr Westenthaler? Her predecessor was Mr Scheibner and not Mr Westenthaler.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Markowitz.]] Ladies and gentlemen! These 13,500 young men punish all those lies that believe that today's youth would be selfish and only take care of their own affairs. It is therefore an important and correct step that these young men are no longer restricted in their later career choice. The changes to the Civil Service Act are an important paradigm change: Young men can now really freely decide whether they want to perform military service without having to determine their future career path. Ladies and gentlemen! All in all, I am pleased that this novel of the Civil Service Act was unanimously adopted in the Committee. And I'm sure there's only winners through the new rules. And quite to the conclusion and not quite to the point: Mr Grosz! I am more and more aware that the former Member of this House of Faul has been right as far as you are concerned.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e22220	No one is reporting on this. I therefore conclude the debate. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. [[Calls and calls between MEPs Grosz and Heinzl.]] [[President Dr. Graf gives the bell sign.]] – I may ask for attention! We shall vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 1659 of the supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who will also give their approval to this draft law at third reading to give a sign. – That too is the unanimity. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[19:50:06]] 12. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (1648, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Act amending the Banking Act (1667 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e22284	We're on our way to the 12. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mr Podgorschek has spoken on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e22312	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! I still remember your words, be it in the financial committee or here in plenary, when you always wanted to make us aware that the bank package is a great business, a huge business for the Republic and we could in total cash a lot of interest. Meanwhile, we were taught a better person. They have told us not only here in Parliament, but also the people a shame. And now, at ÖVAG, we give up €700 million from the participation capital and give it additional €250 million as a new equity or equity grant. This goes into a normal series that has been in it for 40 years, one can almost say: from one scandal and one bank disaster to the other. I don't want to list this in detail now, but I'm just recalling: BAWAG, municipal credit, Hypo Alpe-Adria, Hypo Tirol et cetera. And then there's the following: Now, the primary banks, the small banks, which have done a great deal of work and have the same equity, are being forced to pay an additional €220 million for their top institution and, even worse, they lose their independence at the end of the day. But that's not enough. The other banks, the competitors, are also invited to the cash desk by increasing the bank's levy by 25 percent. Then we hear again and again: That's no different, they're system-relevant, the banks are too big to fail. – The Federal Chancellor has even said that it costs €13 billion in the final effect if we let the people's banking sector go bankrupt now. In the long run – and this is a similar development, as it is in Greece – this development will cost us much more than if we were to take a proper step now. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Schickhofer:... you're an insolvency?]] We have failed in recent years to create and decide on a proper banking bankruptcy order. One cannot compare the current bankruptcy order with the real economy, which is absolutely clear to me, but one must finally put a bar on the banking sector, because one cannot speculate and work there, as they have done in recent years. Therefore, I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Schickhofer: How is that going? Explain that!]] Iceland and Sweden have already practiced this. They have put their banking sector in order, and this is also at our doorstep. The only thing we achieve is that we get in exactly the same disaster as the European Union with Greece, which I have already mentioned. But this is the typical example of the ÖVP economic policy: From the private sector, from the real economy, it is demanded that the market be put in place and that it also results in the corresponding consequences – President Leitl emphasizes this over and over again – but in the moment when it is about its own area, when it comes to dealing with the protected sector – and the banking sector is a protected sector – finally, once again, planning methods come and then finally managers are sent home with high discharges and corresponding salaries and are still welcomed. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] And this very economic policy means that the taxpayer and last but not least the saver will pay the token. What you're doing here is pure banking.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e22397	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e22464	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Stummvoll. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e22485	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! When we decided in the Financial Committee two weeks ago the current amendment to the Banking Act, of course we knew that this is necessary in view of the current development of the Volksbanken, but it was honest that we were still surprised, Mrs Finanzminister, by the pace and drama of the development at the weekend. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Incidental!]] I have to say honestly, the law is explained very quickly: On the basis of an EU directive, the possibility of establishing an association of credit institutions with corresponding mutual liability, with full consolidation, with a certain control and service function of the central institution is provided. This is very simple, ladies and gentlemen, only, I believe that we have to deal with in the near future, are some of the issues that arise from the headlines of today's media: the three banking "sorg children" of Mrs Finanzminister – you spoke of "sorg children" yourself, and of course we are concerned. And if suddenly three banks, three “sorg children” in the portfolio of the Ministry of Finance are – partly nationally informed, fully nationally – then of course some questions already arise. The first question is: Is the state as the owner of banks really better than a private owner? I am quoting the former long-standing President of the Bank, Mrs Maria Schaumayer. It has once said very correctly that the state is better at saving businesses, but it is worse in running businesses. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Well, let's just crack her!]] I can only join this fully in terms of content, so I am very glad that Mrs Finanzminister explained that the whole thing should be sold again as quickly as possible – 2016, 2017 – towards private owners, no question at all. The second point, ladies and gentlemen: We already have to ask ourselves questions about the control and supervision of banks. We have an incredible control chain here. We have the internal revision in the institute, we have the Supervisory Board, we have the State Commissioner, we have the bank auditor, we have the financial market supervision, we have the note bank. There is already the question: Is supervision and control bureaucracy and inefficiency, or is that something else? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Riepl.]] The question arises, Mr Riepl. And I will also talk to the two Boards of Financial Market Supervision and I would like to invite the political group leaders of all parties to this discussion, because we have regular discussions with financial market supervision in the Financial Committee. It is true that, in this control chain, we are always surprised by such developments, that the efficiency of early warning is clearly not given here. [[Congratulations of Deputies Ing. Hofer, Grazauer and Steindl.]] That's what you have to say: The efficiency of early warning is simply not given here. Perhaps we need to give financial market supervision new instruments that will enable them to warn us accordingly early. I say this as a friend of the banks, ladies and gentlemen, because I know that without banks the money cycle of the economy is increasing, there is no financing of the economy. But I think you have to be so honest, to say, here are some real questions now. The next question – and I say that as one whose economic attitude is known – is really also about bank management bonuses. I have always said that if we place a particular emphasis on sustainability here, at least at the end of a five-year contract a credit can be paid. Honestly, I do not see why high bonuses are paid because of short-term, often speculative elements. That is what the Supervisory Board is regulating, and not the legislator, is clear to me, but that is really a development where I say that there is no understanding in large circles of the population and also in large circles of small and medium-sized enterprises. If a private businessman does such things – to a much lesser extent – he is liable with all his private assets. If a bank manager, who used to run a small regional bank, suddenly becomes top manager, creates a disaster and is then sent to pension with great treatises, then every small businessman says: That can't be true! So here, I think, is really a need for action at the supervisory councils of these companies, but there is also a need for action, I think, for the legislator. I say once again, I invite the two Boards of Financial Market Supervision – I have always held such informal discussions – and all the political leaders of the parties here in the House, because we really have to consider, that cannot be the last conclusion of wisdom that we are always so surprised by such developments when it comes to billions. If, in this particular case, the public banks are not asked to cash out on account of the considerations about a bank tax increase and similar things of taxpayers, then this is very nice, but nevertheless, my colleague, I say : [[Abg. Petzner: That's a shame!]] Something has to happen, it is urgent need for action! I invite all the constructive forces to cooperate here.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e22562	The next item is the speech by Mr Ing. Westenthaler. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e22584	Mr President. Mrs Financier! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! We also see the present proposal in connection with what happened a few days later, not only as a strange step, but as a rather an ominous step here in Parliament, because you cannot explain that a six-year-old EU directive had to be put on the agenda of the Financial Committee suddenly overnight, because we had to decide so quickly. The squats have already pewed from the roofs, which comes to us. The Greens have not yet known, they have also agreed and made you the robbers. We see this very, very critical. I really have to say, if you consider what you have listed for a theatre in recent months and years with the other banks – I do not know the names now, because that is harmful to these banks; we all know what we mean, especially the one in Carinthia – and that you say suddenly, there is no other variant, it is all so good for the savers, there is no alternative, otherwise it would have become even more expensive, then you really should stick to the truth and above all not scatter sand into the eyes of people. To use the increase in the bank levy and to say that everything is solved, so to speak, from the table, that can't be true alone, because the first thing, when it comes to increasing, is to pay customers again. This is like the Amen in prayer, we know about hidden or not so hidden increases. On the other hand, I do not believe that this is because the Raiffeisen has already aligned – we can read about it today –: That's what we're looking at! So the muscle play is already there. That's what we're looking at, if that's what it's going to be, at least a complaint is filed. That is to say, the government said yesterday: everything financed, capital cut – all this is explained – then said that with an increase in the bank levy the issue is de facto from the table, and a day later or at night we learn that, first of all, all the other banks were obviously not involved in this solution and, secondly, they are not at all prepared to accept that, at all, they are even legally combated. This is not a clean solution, it is really not a clean solution, nor if you know that the Volksbankengruppe has been driven against the wall for the second time within a few years. This too must be made clear once again. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] There is also a question for us about the manager's responsibility, the manager's responsibility, the question of the persons to be taken to account here, because they disappear most of the time, they are away at once, of which you hear nothing more, and the burden remains with either the bank customer or the taxpayer, as already once again 1 billion. And, Mrs Minister, you must also tell people the whole truth, because of the cut-off of capital and the €700 million you lack due to the 2009 bank package, because of the billion that comes from there, of course also the Budget deficit will increase by – how much will it be? – 0.25, 0.3 percent, says your own ministry. On the other hand, you are already caught by the capital increase, by adding fresh money again to make new debts, nothing else is that. You're making new debts again! We are constantly talking about a debt brake, we are constantly saying no new debt!, especially the ÖVP, and now you are taking fresh money and making new debts again because we just have to save a bank again. That's not how it is! That's actually voodoo economy. That is why I am also the opinion of Mr Podgorschek, who said earlier, that there is a need for a proper banking bankruptcy order, that there must be a possible adjustment in the banking sector, and that, above all, this is one of the central demands we are raising, finally the speculation banks, the speculation banks are separated from the commercial banks. This is quite, very important, so that the customer and the taxpayer do not always have to sheet. [[BZÖ and Abg. Podgorschek.]] I think that is very crucial, and we ask you to do so. In any case, we will observe very closely what is happening there and what is happening to us, because the main reason for the miscarriage is obvious: not only the mismanagement that has taken place there, but again the risky East business. You know that as well as I do, and we all know that this is not the only bank that hangs in these risky East operations, economic crisis to or from here. But it must be assumed that this is far from the end of the series of possible disasters occurring in the banking sector. Therefore, a Finance Minister, a forward-looking, preventive government would be called upon to actually create order in the banking sector and to make corresponding divisions and structural changes.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e22651	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Matznetter. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e22672	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! I agree with Mr Westenthal's statement. It is not true that two weeks ago we in the Financial Committee knew, so to speak, of the problems of the Volksbank this weekend. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: We all knew that!]] The opposite is true. It has been hoped that with the possibility of opening up the so-called Rabobank model, so much equity can be mobilised in the sector itself, in the form that has long been proven in Europe, so that a corresponding reception solution is not necessary. [[Abg. Petzner: You don't believe that yourself!]] In fact, however, that is not enough and, unfortunately, the taxpayer has to intervene in the form of a partial nationalization. Dear Günter stupid, because you used to quote Mrs. Dr. Maria Schaumayer: In the lead, the private would be better. – These cases do not convince us all. When I think about the fact that the one acting Director-General at the Volksbanken was then brought to the Hypo Alpe-Adria in the proceeds of the Tilo Berlin, this does not always have to be the example of the best performance. At any rate, we now have all three problem bears under the supervision of the State, and that cannot be a permanent solution. I would remind you that, for reasons of EU law, we are forced, in reality, to separate ourselves from the municipal credit, the first of these three banks, but also from the other appropriate solutions in the next twelve months. But let's come to the trouble bear here in the house. These are fractions from which the orphanic series, such as the FPÖ, come up with motions for resolutions, which are in fact intended to create a situation where the Austrian taxpayer is to be held liable to the credit of bank customers in unlimited amounts. What does that mean, Mr. Colleague? We had to do this in the short term in 2008/2009. That meant that the risk at Volksbank would have been even higher than now, because now we have limited it to 100 000 in individual cases. If you follow your resolution, the risk would be even higher. That means you have to intervene much more often. At this point, Mr Westenthaler said that the problem of any bank directors being upset by the increase in the bank's levy was the same, and that he wrote to the other bank groups in the parent book: Wouldn't the Minister of Finance act decisively, and would we have the case that the banks would be beating – who is the sixth safeguard group in the deposit system? Who would have had to pay if the €10 billion and the Volksbanken sector couldn't do it alone? – The other sectors. In this sense, it is correct and factually more than justified that the Federal Minister for Finance rightly says: Then we will also increase the bank levy to take back from the taxpayer's shoulders and to accommodate those who would otherwise have had to pay! I think that's reasonable. In the financial sector, we have an industry liability in the deposit system, for which, if it is unable to intervene in good time, the state has to intervene over the weekend because otherwise the supervisory system threatens, and then it has to be repaid in the form of a bank tax by 2017/2018. I think this process is right, and I believe that it is our task as a politician, as representatives of taxpayers, to help the Minister of Finance to get the money there too. We all know that this whole banking routing is not a permanent solution, but we cannot solve the problem nationally, because we have such a fabrication in the financial sector that we need, for example, an international regulation for the death-leaving capacity of banks. This is a task, and I would like to ask you, Mrs Finanzminister, to insist very, very strongly on it in the European Union – there were first attempts in the Commission, but I feel that this issue is a bit of a fall asleep: How can we create a scheme for an institution, even if it is supposed to be too big to fail, without the next day being charged to SMEs who have loans there by any sharks who have bought the loans, that they are dissolved without the savers removing their funds? How can we establish such an orderly procedure? Finally, the answer will always have to cover the public sector, on which we should be clear; whether it is in the form that the banking company is in the form of public guarantee ultimately managed for savings, and in reality the banks are trustees for a trustee, namely for the guaranteeor, in the case of the last guarantee, in the final line, and that is always the taxpayer/taxer. In their responsibility we should work to find an appropriate system. To be honest, however, we have not yet found a very good model in any region of this world, which has actually solved this final solution in the event of a bank falling. I'd be grateful if someone knew a good example. I do not see good examples in either the US or Asia, or in other economic areas. We will probably have to develop this in Europe. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Petzner.]] Last point: People's banks, on the issue of the banking sector. . I welcome the Rabobank model as a possibility in the legislation because it maintains the autonomy of primary banks in a structure that nevertheless allows for a community treasury and debt management. This is actually a good model if you want to do so with regard to the cooperation of cooperatives. In this sense, it is welcome that we create this opportunity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e22735	Mr Petzner spoke on business treatment. I recall the relevant provisions of the Rules of Procedure and give the floor to you. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e22760	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Matznetter von der SPÖ has here used the term “end-solution” in connection with the banking crisis and the events surrounding the pleite of the Volksbank and the further expenses on the part of the taxpayer. – I consider this to be inadmissible for the House. We know that this is a historically heavy term, which cannot be used in a different context, and I am also seeking to ensure that the protocol is checked and that the consequences are introduced against Mr Matznetter.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e22784	Mr Matznetter spoke on the Rules of Procedure. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e22808	Mr President. Mr Petzner misuses the possibility of speaking on the Rules of Procedure, in reality, to link a politically really serious concept such as 'end-solution', in connection with the greatest crime in humanity, with a technical expression in relation to bank handling. [[Abg. Grosz: Did you say that?]] This is an incitement to the crimes of the Holocaust which he makes in his contribution by recognizing such a thing, and I ask him to draw the necessary consequences from it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e22856	We will ask for the protocol, study the context that has been created, and then draw the corresponding consequences or not draw them if there is no connection. [[Abg. Grosz: He brings the term into the debate, but that's what the Edlinger has already done! From socialism to National Socialism is no further way!]] [[Further calls to the BZÖ.]] We continue in the speaker list. I ask Mr Themessl for his statement. 3 minutes speaking time is set. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e22898	Mr President. Mrs Finanzminister! High house! Mr Matznetter, I know from you that you are not only reading the very one-sided coverage in the Austrian media, but also sometimes trying to find out about foreign media or get information. If you had read the report on Greece's aid in the economic section of the "Frankfurter Allgemeine" yesterday, you would know that what is listed with Greece is just as debilitating and not targeting as the way in which the Austrian banking package is handled. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You here from the red half of the empire: If colleagues Kai Jan Krainerund Cap, and as they are all called, take the floor here and constantly urge the bank managers to put them up as evil boys who have broken everything, then I must tell you that only and only because that doesn't end is this federal government. If you don't finally stand an example, that it won't work, then you'll never get under control of the banking and financial sector. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr President, you have been very small today. I am surprised that you are now wondering where financial market supervision is and why it does not work. I just remember our budget speaker, Alois Grabauer. In each financial committee he points out that this cannot continue, and in each financial and budgetary committee he asks where the supervision of the financial market, where the control remains. It is now three and a half years since we decided on this bank rescue package here, and now I ask you: What has happened in the last three and a half years? – I still agree that in the period before the bank rescue package, control did not work. Then we fell out of all the clouds because one has spoken of billions of amounts that no human can imagine, no one of us inside here. At the latest, however, it should have worked. So what has happened in the Austrian banking system for the last three and a half years? - Nothing! No control! What did the banks do? – Let me give you an example: The Swiss large banks were indebted three and a half years ago with 450 percent of Swiss GDP. Then the Swiss government intervened, but much smarter than the Austrian, and with intelligent participations in two years has gained a rich plus of 2 billion francs from the bank package. The banks have been saved for two years, the UBS, the Credit Suisse are today with an equity ratio of 19 percent better than all other banks in the European comparison. This has worked in Switzerland. This has also worked in such a way that the large banks have made radical staff changes because the active managers have proved over years that they can't. The banks have speculated everything for years. I am convinced that many of the profits the banks have made in Austria for decades have passed by the tax. Or can the Minister of Finance tell me how many billions of taxes have been received from banks in recent years? Then we tied up a bank package, pumped in billions – and nothing happened! But there are construction sites not only through the municipal credit and the hypo and now also the ÖVAG, but there are other construction sites through the hypo Tyrol and the hypo Lower Austria. They will fall out of all the clouds if the financial market supervision does not finally intervene and the control is carried out. If that doesn't happen, then you've completely strapped the rescue package that doesn't deserve the name – even the name Saving Package – because you haven't calculated all these events. You have no crisis management for such things. I wonder if we'll be talking about another billion next week or in 14 days where you'll take them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e22963	Mrs Silhavy spoke on the Rules of Procedure. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e22988	Mr President. Mr Grosz said earlier in his speech on business treatment: From socialism to National Socialism is no further way. . I expect, even if we are a democratically elected House, that Mr Grosz is dissociating from this statement, or that you, Mr President, will prove Mr Grosz with the corresponding consequences.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e23018	Mr Grosz also spoke on the Rules of Procedure. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e23042	In the context of my outrage, because Mrs Silhavy would have preferred to address her colleagues Matznetter, who, in an invertebrate Mr Petzner, claims that this phrase, which expresses a tragedy, to bring suffering and murder to the bank package, should have been associated, I would like to say that you are quoting me wrong. The protocol will show that I have called you: The path from socialism to a national socialism is no further. And this phrase, as you know, has often also been very emotional in this Parliament, but in no way – and you know that well enough – does mean an arrogance, but is also the expression of what has been happening here today by colleagues Matznetter.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e23071	We will discuss the whole debate, including on the Rules of Procedure, for a time again and again in the next presidential term. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grosz]] The Stenographical Protocol has already been requested, and we will then read in what has actually been said. I would suggest that we now cool down the moods, that we continue on the agenda – it is an important issue that we are dealing with here – and that Mr Mag. Listen to Kogler. 7 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e23113	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Even without the rather strange and repeatedly flickering debates of the Rules of Procedure, it has already been confused in the matter itself – to which you warn. Let's order things! First of all, we have a novel to the Banking Act, second naturally and in a way related to it, the issue of the current – under quotation marks – I am saying at this point the same for the protocol – “rettung” of the Austrian Volksbanken-AG. I am already expecting, Mrs Federal Minister, that you will now be able to comment in detail and possibly correct some communication deficit with regard to the attitude taken by the Federal Government. Thirdly, Mr Podgorschek's motion for a resolution was still under discussion, which has been referred to several times. In this regard, it is likely to be reasonable to approach things one after the other. So I will start with the novelle itself, especially since the Green Group has already come up with its vote in committee. - Yes, we agreed. We have this even now, if the Federal Minister does not quell it, for the following reason: because the novelle seems to follow all the studies that we have already completed at the time, is a great thing – regardless of how much and how far must now be saved. For if the intention is and that would succeed, the sector here is consolidated so far that the overall eligible capital, which is more mobilised by it, results in, so to speak, an increased eligible core capital, and at the same time we want to achieve a certain core capital ratio, if not have to, in these rescue measures and then with the newly invested equity – the equity of the State – if not, then the result of the bill is completely clear: What we are mobilising there must, at least in this kind of rescue action; one could also discuss others, less fire the taxpayer. That makes sense. Whether this is €200 million or more than €100 million is then a question of what can be mobilised in this way, but it seems to be moving in the three-digit million range. And that alone, even against the background of the forthcoming rehabilitation action – that is, when we think back two weeks now – has been quite a reasonable process. That's one. But this has nothing to do with questioning how this so-called rescue is going to take place here. Mrs Bundesminister, we don't just have a few questions right now. I may perhaps start with the question we had before two and a half years ago, i.e. in the middle of 2009. I have made a request to your predecessor specifically for the first action, the first – at that time not quoted as a rescue action – 1-billion-participation capital shooting action. This was first carried with sounds in an OTS message from the Ministry, which I do not want to read anymore, because then we would have caught up with the discomfort, but the Ministry of Finance would have to answer it, and I do not have that much time at all. In any case, the whole action has been hailed. I have allowed myself to ask a question, and I would like to repeat just a few questions – for the minutes. We were of course concerned at the time, so we asked the question – to summarize it –: What is the state of the Volksbanken-AG and the sector? Is there an opinion first, whether system-relevant or not, as it has always been called, and: distressed or non distressed? That was always the subject at the time. – Yes, there has been an opinion from the central bank, and the ÖVAG has even been so positive that only 8 and not 9 percent interest had to be paid. Be it, be it! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Petzner.]] Nevertheless, we have said: It can't do anything like that. We wanted to know how this is with interest payments and above all with the risk of having to write off the participation capital sometime. At the time, she or her predecessor replied that the dividend payment obligation is naturally being met. This has never been the case, it was clear, because no profit was to be recorded so to speak. With regard to the participation capital, it was answered that Volksbanken-AG can serve the dividends regularly – that is to say, one must trust in this state that was already recognizable at the time; also for us laymen – and that the steps already taken to strengthen the bank's capital base are sufficient. That was the answer to the question of how safe the participation capital is. I'm just pointing out that this happened under the battle call that the whole thing is going to be another business. Mr. Treichl is sorry today, but at the time he acted with the Ministry of Finance in the “ZiB 2” – I can still remember well – and said that everything will be a business for the Republic. [[Abg. Ing. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats).]] Now, if we take the mortgage and the municipal credit and this thing here: So much can a sector of raiffeisen or the First Bank – and I really have to say this at this point – no longer bring it into the hands of dividends, which has already been reduced to capital. And I'm still looking at how the ÖVAG account ends. Nevertheless: You will have to explain to this part 2 of my questions what the alternatives would have been, what it cost. Federal Chancellor Faymann stood up and said that would cost 13 billion €. We would like to be able to understand here how it comes to it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Petzner.]] It is likely that the top institution plays a role for the primary banks, of course, and that there would have been real difficulties here over liquidity frameworks and other mechanisms. The first question, however, is whether it would not be long before the time when you would be able to deal with a bankruptcy as ordered as possible here once. It may be natural that this is not so easily possible and that the other costs more. Nevertheless, in such a debate and at this point in time, you will have to explain exactly what this is. Another question is how the EU Commission now evaluates the whole issue in retrospect. I hear today, extremely skeptical of the fact that, almost logically, as far as the first billion is concerned, a state aid procedure is under way, because today the European Commission has said that it has already considered this very critical. I'd like to know how you judge this. Another question is how the demands will be implemented, what you have announced – we will at least look at it – is that no credit rating payments will take place, and that, above all, because it is about larger dimensions, it is much more important – the dividend policy looks so that then some private people will not get money out again, while taxpayers have to stay in bold. All this I ask to explain to the House, because communication in the public does not always seem to be optimal. Then there are the questions of supervision – yes, of course! What did the FMA do? What has the note bank done for two or three years? I can quote the commentator Urschitz, who, in a comment on the ÖVAG, says: “For this reason, two years ago, the FMA already has a very successful model in the form of a state-owned “Bridge Bank” – that is, in German: [[Abg. Petzner: But is a bad example!]] Brückenbank – introduced, “takes over customer deposits and system-related liabilities and sends the rest to the Orkus”. This has not been implemented because the banks have blocked it – so, I am now getting out of the quote again. I want to know: Is that true? What has been the role of supervision? What counter-strategies have there been on the part of financial policy? One last point: the demands for the future. – Yes, we see this as well as the applicant Podgorschek in his motion for a resolution. It would have had to succeed in finally developing such a bankruptcy order for banks, and it would have been better to separate the banks' business areas in such a way that if you want to do so, I will not continue to do so, and better separate the so-called investment banking. The proposal quoted by Urschitz clearly also points to the possibility of reorganising the banking system in the midst of it, even in the case of existing banks, which have been painted in Malversations. It would be useful if you would answer that because otherwise you will be hanging again, people don't understand, we pay – I know how much – on it in the savings package, but over the night and very quickly billions are promised here. You need to fix the communication deficit.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e23178	There is another Rules of Procedure tabled by Mr Ing. Hofer before. I'll give him the word. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e23202	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! While we are discussing this issue today, it has become known that the President of the Federal Republic of Germany is practicing strong criticism of the Chancellor and criticizing the timetable for the adoption of the savings package. He says he threatens to make a stroke on the bill to the Federal Government in its consolidation package. The relevant laws should be adopted on 28 and 29. ==References====External links== ==References== The President says that it remains a short period of time to examine the constitutional status of the package of legislation. He goes on to say he doesn't want to play with it. “I could not accept such a procedure – what you, in the direction of chancellors, “understand –”. It is therefore necessary for us to consider this timetable once again and urgently agree on a new date for the adoption of this package during a presidential session, because I think that the warning of the President of the Federal Republic of Germany, according to the motto “speed kills” – which has been so often criticized – is very, very serious to take.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e23240	Mr Hofer. This may, of course, be an interesting speech, but that was a contribution to debate, not a speech on the Rules of Procedure. Therefore, if I continue to call one or the other on the Rules of Procedure to stick to the Rules of Procedure and perhaps to formulate a request or a request to ensure that the business regulations are in conformity with the rules of procedure. Mr Grosz spoke with a speech on the Rules of Procedure. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e23268	Mr President. In view of what Mr Hofer said, I would suggest that during today's plenary session a presidential meeting of the National Council be convened. I think that is enough for the Rules of Procedure, but that is also enough for democracy. Never in the history of the Second Republic has there been a call for help from the Court of Justice for an official Federal President to take a stand against the pope of a Federal Government and to refuse his signature under this package of laws, and also for factual reasons: because this Pentecost is to be harassed here by Parliament, because it is not sufficient here, but in the form of a special session, and only the deadlines and the days until the rallying itself to the Federal President, who is now at the head of the population, is not enough to discuss this law in high responsibility. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP]] [[Interoperability call at the SPÖ]] That is why we are immediately encouraging a stand-in-law to deal with this problem and to discuss the national Council's timetable for adopting this scrapping package.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e23311	The suggestion to interrupt a session with a President has arrived at my door. But I don't know if I'm going to follow him. First of all, I should like to listen to Mr Klubobmann's Dr. Cap. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e23336	I would just like to remind you that, in the context of the presidential meetings, we have discussed this timetable together, all five political groups have also decided on this timetable, so all five political groups believe that this timetable is right and in order, is enough time to negotiate the fact that it was particularly welcome that, in the context of a special meeting, we are devoted exclusively to this issue, in which we will then also comment on this consolidation package. [[Abg. Petzner: But the Federal President has not yet spoken!]] It is the Federal President's right to make a comment on the deadline, and we respect that, but within Parliament this was ultimately undisputed. That is why I do not fully understand the contributions. Whether all of this will be the way it could be will depend on – if I read the final sentence of this APA issue –: “One would be constantly informing the President of the Federal Republic of Germany in the course of the package’s legislative process and ‘seeking a good solution.’” The answer is given anyway.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e23375	I will not comply with the suggestion for interruption now and I will also say two sentences: First of all, the session will only take place next week – item one. There is enough time to reach an agreement between the political groups in the presidency, if one wants to do so. We do not need to extend the session today. Secondly, we all do not know how to vote on the 8th. March goes out. It does not have to be that there is a majority for this savings package – who knows it – and therefore we will not presuppose such a session. We shall continue on the agenda. The next speaker is Mr Petzner. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e23419	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! On the basis of this proposed amendment to the Banking Act, I am also entitled to comment on the developments of the last few days around ÖVAG, the Austrian Volksbanken-AG. I remember a lot of meetings here in the House, where the Austrian People's Party, Mr. Stummvoll, could not cry out loud enough "scandal" when it came to the hypo-Alpe-Adria. You have attacked this bank, the state of Carinthia. [[Call the ÖVP: Today!]] Mrs Federal Minister Fekter even went so far as to harm the image of the bank location Austria and the federal state of Carinthia by comparing Carinthia with Greece in an improper way, which even brought protests from its own party friends in Carinthia and the entire Carinthian state government into its own resolution. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Kogler.]] It was not fast enough to set up a SOKO, a special commission, in addition to installing a CSI Hypo, to order entire experts to spend millions on lawyers in order to clarify this supposed Carinthia Haider-Hypo scandal. [[Abg. Riepl: This is a scandal!]] The result is to this day – yes, what has happened, Mr. Colleague? – Since 2009, the CSI has been investigating Hypo, and what has come out to this day? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Riepl.]] - Waiting? We've been waiting for three years. For three years, it has been studied that the total cost is already over €30 million tax money for all these lawyers and lawyers. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] There's been an acquittal and nothing else. That's the result, and that's what you have to answer. [[Call the SPÖ:But the billions are missing, aren't they?]] Now we have the case of the people’s banks, and no one shouts “scandal. ” [[Call the FPÖ:V like wings!]] Everything's wonderful. That's what Mr State Secretary Arbitrator says in ZiB 1: Everything's not a problem, everything wonderful! We'll get it all under control again. It will cost the Republic nothing, it will cost taxpayers nothing. We will get everything back, the bank tax will make up for the costs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us stick to the truth: Banking tax is a savings-book tax. Bank customers in this country will have to pay this and no one else. That is the truth you must take note of, ladies and gentlemen! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Ms Fekter, when do you announce the establishment of a SOKO Volksbanken-AG, a CSI ÖVAG? When's the Special Commission coming? When will be Mr. Peshorn active? When will you engage the lawyers who order experts as you did at Carinthia, when? - Not at all. [[Call: Here we are]] She'll keep quiet and look at me for a long time. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] This is this hypocritical dishonesty that I can only condemn. When it comes to the federal state of Carinthia and party-political reasons, the ÖVP is the bank location – tens of thousands of employees, one of the largest banks in Austria – no matter. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Ikrath.]] There will be dredging and hustling with the taxpayer money, and at the ÖVAG we spread the coat of silence over it. Let's look at the numbers: How much have you spent on the hypo? [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Mr. stupid, now you don't read in the paper! You're not paid for newspaper reading, but for talking and listening, so listen to me now! – He is reading the Raiffeisen patch post called “Kurier”. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] How much have you spent on the hypo so far? With €1.5 billion you are liable, you have written off 625 million so far. That's your great scandal?- Oh, my God! What about the people's banks? 1.3 billion €, almost the same sum, written off for a few days 700 million, so more. At €100 million more loss and write-off than at Hypo Alpe-Adria! And yet you do not shout “scandal. ” You don't care. Finally, the best example: the municipal credit, where the Minister Claudia Schmied happened to be sitting on the board of directors. Do you know how high the tax payer has been up to now? €4.6 billion. 4.6 billion €! You don't care. At the hypo, because of 1.5 billion and 625 million amortizations, you make a huge theatre, with the municipal credit 4,6 billion being no problem. People's banks have no problem with 1.3 billion and 700 million amortizations. Can you explain that to me? Can you explain to me how and on what basis do you come to such assessments? You can't, but you're exclusively party-political. [[Abg. Dr. stupid: That's exactly what the Petzner says!]] I can promise you one thing, ladies and gentlemen: We will and I will continue to be on the subject! The day will come, the Minister Fekter knows exactly where she has to transfer 3 billion € tax money for the mismanagement of a German bank from Austria to Munich. I have held talks with very renowned German newspapers today, which have already looked very closely at what the ÖVP has negotiated in favour of Bavaria. That means that this will also be the subject of foreign affairs. We will remain on top of it, and I can guarantee you that in 2013 the Hypo Alpe-Adria will be a very big topic for the Austrian People's Party, in the negative sense for them. I can promise you that.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e23588	Next speaker: Mr Auer. 3 minutes are set. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e23610	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I understand that, after years of suffering, Mr Petzner can stand a little triumphal here today and, I expressly say, also rightly speaks of a scandal. [[Abg. Petzner: I'm going to triumph a lot more!]] It is a scandal that happened in Volksbanken AG. I say it clearly, ladies and gentlemen. I'm saying it clearly! [[As a result, the Commission has not yet received any comments from the interested parties.]] What is particularly annoying about me is the fact that, with an increase in the bank levy, one still has to finance a competitor who has undercut us for years now. But there are others like that. The municipal loan, for example. [[Abg. Yeah, right! Mrs. Schmied!]] For many years, the municipal loan has undermined and undermined savings banks and the Rauffeise telephone with non-market-compliant interest rates. And today we have the same problem. [[Congratulations on MEPs from ÖVP, FPÖ and BZÖ.]] It is particularly painful – this has obviously been forgotten – that the municipal credit has once heard of the ÖVAG. She has been part of it once, ladies and gentlemen. In fact, this has once been a complex. And that's the special thing. And I also expect the management, the Supervisory Board, the Banking Supervisory Board, the National Bank, the FMA and others to speak and answer what has happened here. Ladies and gentlemen! I'll give you a little example. When, six years ago, I had my grandson, my first grandson, issue a savings book in the sense of a precautionary product on the bank to pay a certain amount monthly, it was necessary to read two pages of terms. Last year, when I wanted to give the second grandson the same product, there were 16 pages of bureaucratic documents that no longer read customer. [[Abg. Grosz: With raiffeisen, or what?]] This is completely wretched, at which bank, these are the requirements of the higher-level departments. [[Abg. Grosz: That can only have been raiffeisen!]] I wonder very slowly what some supervisory authorities are responsible for. If you have an approval meeting at the RLB in Linz for lunch, the State Commissioner I very much appreciate comes; I do not say the name, but an excellent man, an experienced, long-term expert. If at three o'clock in the afternoon in the same bank from a subsidiary bank, Privatbank AG, such a meeting takes place, the next State Commissioner will come. So two service trips are possible, it is pleasant – as if that would not be possible in one! [[Abg. Grosz: This is actually a direct criticism of the Minister of Finance!]] So there would be a lot of things to improve. I know how years ago it was fought to change the system of state commissioners a little, to solve these problems. A then Finance Minister has admittedly admitted that he needs this, so to speak, to improve the Civil Service Soldier. But that can't be the point of the matter. [[Abg. Grosz: But you're already in a party, aren't you?]] I ask the Federal Minister – and I also trust her that she will implement it – that this is finally seen after the right, because otherwise I do not need FMA, no National Bank and other supervisory authorities. But one question we should also ask ourselves: the question of greed in general, for more growth and thus for the greed of different bank managers for more bonuses, and so on and so on. [[Complementary with the ÖVP and with representatives of SPÖ, FPÖ and BZÖ.]] And there might also be the question of the so-called internal control. But let's not pretend that the bank rescue problem is an Austrian problem. German Landesbanken, supervised by professional supervisory councils, had enormous problems. A Swiss large bank, it has already been quoted today, UBS, which is now quite positive, has needed support from the Swiss state of 60 billion! And, and, and so. In America, around 400 banks are marching into bankruptcy. And, and, and so. [[Abg. May. Gaßner: Lauter Pülcher!]] One might think a little bit about why such a trigger as Lehman Brothers' bankruptcy then drew such an earthquake of financial nature. This question should be asked. – Because the American state was then not willing to support or save these, one of the largest investment banks. [[Abg. Street: Because it hit the Europeans!]] Completely right! Because the relatively clever Americans thought that most of the papers had already been pushed over the Atlantic and the Europeans were supposed to pay it. And you'll really have to think about it in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e23793	Mrs Fekter spoke. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e23814	Mr President. High house! Yes, the longtime chairman of the Raiffeisen Upper Austria knows what he is talking about. It was an excellent speech, and I can only thank him. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Gaßner: He should have stayed there and not become the president of the Federal Farmers' Party!]] It is the rescue of the ÖVAG and thus the rescue of the entire banking sector last weekend, in order to stabilise this sector and ward off greater damage from the Republic, a painful matter, especially in times when we are currently fasting a savings package, setting up consolidation measures and making reforms. [[Abg. Petzner: When will the CSI Volksbanks come?]] This was necessary because the top institute, the ÖVAG, could no longer balance, no longer have received a testat and had to register bankruptcy. This bankruptcy has not only caused the damage in the ÖVAG, but it would have been fatal to have been sent to the bank on the next day of the government commissioner, and thus all Volksbank bonds would have been devalued. [[Abg. Petzner: Financial Market Supervision says something else! The FMA said something else! That's wrong what you're saying!]] In turn, the depreciation of the Volksbank bonds would have removed the capital base from the primary banks in the regions. And if the regional banks, most of which are still very good, were suddenly in trouble, then the deposit guarantee for 17 billion deposits would have been to be covered. And this €17 billion should have been the first of the Volksbanken sector, then the other sectors, the other banks in billions and the rest of the state. This horror scenario we were able to prevent from thanking God. Of course, with a very painful use. It is unfortunate that the participation capital we have in the Volksbank is subject to a 70 percent capital cut and we are losing this money. [[Abg. Petzner: There it is now unfortunate, but at the hypo you have made a giant theatre!]] We have to look for a source of funding to the Austrian State, in view of the savings package, so that the costs of this restructuring can be recovered. First of all, the sector itself, that is, the financial market itself, should contribute to this. I have therefore introduced a new idea, namely that we will levy a 25 % surcharge on the bank, but not allow this money to flow into the general budget, but rather to form a fund that will continue to be available for stabilisation and rescue measures in the financial sector. [[Abg. Petzner: Who pays this? Who pays that?]] In other words, the sector itself contributes to ensuring stability in the future. At the same time, I can imagine that those profits which the European Central Bank gives to the national banks as a result of Greece's restructuring are not also included in the general budget, but are made available to this stabilisation fund. I'm in touch with Governor Novotny about this. [[Abg. Petzner: It's such a fool, what you're saying is incredible!]] At the same time, it has been shown that, although we have a wealth of control mechanisms, we need to look carefully at whether these control mechanisms by the central bank, by the FMA, by the state commissioners, are coherent, consistent and appropriate by their own revision arrangements to prevent such reorganisation cases. I am therefore particularly concerned that we – as the honourable Member has done Auer has addressed – take a close look at the work of the State Commissioners. [[Abg. May. Kogler: We already told you that in the Banking Investigation Committee! Now it's going to be really messy!]] I imagine that we are installing a restructuring officer so that the strict requirements for those banks that are state-owned, including for the benefit of our state assets, not only for the benefit of the Bank, not only to comply with the regulatory requirements at European level and at the technical and Austrian level, are evaluated by a reformer in cooperation with the state commissioners and given to a new instrument. I have caused us to get together on the activities of all supervisory bodies so far to see to what extent supervision has taken place after the 2008 crisis and how it has carried out its respective assessments. That is to say, a continuation as before will not be possible after this step as incisive, even for the people's banks. Today's law, which will now be passed here, will contribute to the restructuring of the banks. The primary banks lose their freedom, their autonomy, their sole decision-making capacity. [[Abg. Street: All managers stay in office, no one will be terminated!]] They must form a credit association, a bond association. In the future, they will be obliged to support and carry the top institution and to make the total capital available as a bond of liability, as well as liquidity. [[Abg. Petzner: It won't go out!]] We have been discussing this for a long time and we have introduced this law here in Parliament. I am grateful that it has been implemented so quickly so that these restructuring measures can also be implemented quickly in the banking sector.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e23965	Mrs Silhavy spoke. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e23986	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Yes, it is true that when we discussed the bill in the committee, it was clear from the structure that it is a bill that is being created for the people's banks. I think we were all surprised, however, that we were so to speak overcrowded by reality and that the dynamics was much greater than we imagined. The aim of this association is to strengthen competitiveness by using synergies, but above all to assume responsibility for the Institute. However, the change in legislation also means that in Austria we are creating the possibility that exists in other countries to respond accordingly to the developments of the financial market. Yes, Mr Auer, it is true that one cannot simply wipe away the Lehman Brothers case and its effects now, but one also has to consider at international level how to proceed and act there. But it is certainly true that the financial and banking sector in Eastern Europe has been well deserved for many years. And you're wondering where a risk upholstery was formed from these profits. - Apparently nowhere. It is also important to learn lessons from this. And we will see how Basel III will develop on this issue. The fact is that we have also noted in an amendment that credit cooperatives must focus on strengthening high-quality own resources in the future, in order to ensure that the total liability surcharges on own resources will no longer be permissible in the future. In order to facilitate this, it will also be possible to limit the liability of the members to the share of the company. I think that is a very important point. I would also like to remind you – and this is already important to me, because many people are uncertain by reporting – that we have had legal deposit protection for savings, construction savings and grievances since January 2010. This protects savings for each person per bank up to € 100 000. I think this is essential because many savers are currently really uncertain. I think that for us it is a way that I can already welcome that much of the counter-financing is done by increasing the bank's levy. I think That it is important to have this security and this safeguarding of savings that not everything is done on the back of taxpayers. I do not see my colleagues stupidly now, but perhaps you can do this to him: It can't be that whenever it comes to saving businesses, the state is, as it were, the first contact person to make money, namely budget money, money from the state, whereas when it comes to managing the enterprises, it is always clear and clear: The State is not suitable for this. Especially the current system of banks shows us that private is not always the yellow of the egg, but that it often resorts to the state. And I think you have to look at what's best for people and what's best economically, regardless of which system it's in.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e24042	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Van der Bellen. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e24063	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! We agree with the amendment on the agenda today because, in short, what is cheap for the Dutch can also be right for us, and it fits exactly for a part of the banking sector, which is represented here by the ÖVAG. But, Mrs. Federal Minister, this has been a kind of communication GAU since Sunday: Today, now, five minutes ago, you explained a little about what this rescue operation was all about. But I have to say: Mr Auer, you will otherwise enjoy my full appreciation, but you have spoken here as a Raiffeisen representative, you have in no way argued on the rescue action. [[Abg. May. Kogler: And not the law at all!]] The same applies to Mr Matznetter and even to Mr Matznetter. [[President Mag. Prammer is taking over the presidency again.]] I'll tell you this because I mean: If I am going to change my mind in such a case on a daily basis because of different information, how does it first have to go outside to the citizens, as they say so beautifully, who understand even less whether you had to save it with a billion euros or not? You must try to explain this, ladies and gentlemen of the government. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I say very briefly: Look, tonight's Wednesday night. Yesterday, Tuesday, I thought: Well, if there are 10 to 13 billion – of the 17 there was no talk I hear today for the first time – if there were 10 to 13 billion deposits at risk, then this rescue measure does not seem to be too expensive. All that was before, financial market oversight failure, state commissioners, is at this moment spilled milk, you have to work it up, but at the moment, on Sunday, other things were decided. And the federal share of this “new ÖVAG” – under quotation marks – from 40 to 49 percent, so in the order of magnitude, around the 250 million capital injections, did not seem excessive to me. That's it. According to recent thought, after studying today's newspapers, the picture changes completely, and tonight, not least due to a conversation with colleague Ikrath, this shifts again. What makes you thinkful? After the ÖVAG itself. She has no deposits at all. The deposits are at the bottom of the primary banks, so to speak, which are active in the region. You ask, of course, the question: Yes, if these 13 billion deposits are not at ÖVAG at all, but at the banks below – I call them so – what transmission belts are at risk of the deposits in primary banks due to the foreseeable bankruptcy of ÖVAG? That is not obvious. Well, there are such transmission belts. The Federal Minister has mentioned one, namely the assessment of the bonds in the primary banks' portfolio. But you have to explain that! If I didn't have Mr. Ikrath, I wouldn't know. And that's a privileged position. Who knows of the eight million Austrians – excuse me, Mr Ikrath! – you and you can ask? [[Rejoicing]] That's the point. A point is still open to me: So there is a new structure here, a bond of liability and so on, as the Federal Minister outlined. To this the state acquires in the order of, say once, 45 percent shares. Why not 100 percent? They were pleading. And in some smaller private banks since autumn 2008 it was so. I remember very well when we fought with officials at the time, at which price the federal government is entitled to take over when the bank is pleading. And then we managed to get through: We accept it at the price it is worth, i.e. per forma for a euro! Why not in this case? You still have to explain that! Please, explain it to me! I think it's okay, but you have to explain why it's okay. The next point, now I'm on it! [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter: Because that!]] The next point is: Within five years or so you want to sell the thing again. I have to tell you the truth: If I were billionaire now, I'd ask myself: What's being offered here?- Oh, my God! – I am offered a form here, which consists of a roof, but this roof is not, for example, the mother of primary banks, no, this roof is the daughter of primary banks, which are still pro forma, even in the new bond – so I read this in all the newspapers, I don’t really understand that – to remain independent, even if they are now in this bond of liability. Who buys a monster like that? – This is enormously complex. Well, that's what you need to imagine: The bonding of capital goes exactly in the opposite direction, as is the alleged entitlement of this so-called central bank. That's really very interesting! And that's supposed to be sold profitably?- Oh, my God! I wish you all the best, I can only hope as representatives of taxpayers that you will succeed. But I wonder if it is worth keeping such a complex structure on the market with these risks, instead of saying: Okay, folks, sorry, we're overburdened, or what does that mean in Austria? –, we have too high a bank share, we take advantage of the opportunity and we are restructuring it again! Look, I'm not the only one, the "press" is really not an anti-economic one, is it? And Mr Urschitz is anything but anti-economic, but that is what must be done. They also explain why this is not true, what he believes: because we, the federal government, the Republic, we, the taxpayers, have not even taken over 50 percent of the bank, but de facto 100 percent of the risks! Yeah, if that's the case, it doesn't seem to me to be such a good business. But again: I believe that you did the right thing on Sunday. But you have to explain this – not only to me, but to taxpayers and taxpayers! They're nervous, they don't understand. And how are they supposed to understand when there's something else in the paper every day? This is a communication GAU, Mrs. Federal Minister. Maybe not a super-GAU, because we've already experienced a lot in this relationship, but it's a GAU.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e24136	Before I call the next speaker, I give Mr Klubobmann Bucher a call for order. I was asked to have the Stenographical Protocol of Speech delivered during my last presidency. Mr Bucher has spoken a total of four times about the SPÖ criminal party, for which I give him a call for order. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Riepl: There he would have to get four!]] The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Ikrath. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e24178	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. During my studies, I would have always wanted to be praised once by one of my highly respected professors. I never succeeded at that time, but it makes sense never to give up hope. That is why I am particularly pleased today. On the matter: Unfortunately, in two minutes' speaking time, it is not possible to address such a complex subject in any way, but I would like to point out that this government is painful in a very difficult situation, as the Federal Minister said – these are pains that we can understand; Mr Auer has already expressed her in his very temperamental manner – but has done so very quickly. And this is of enormous importance, because in this situation it was extremely much: The deposits the ÖVAG and the Volksbanken have are those of a million Austrians, and these are not the rich, not the so-called supermillionaires, but people who are very dependent on this savings. It is €15 billion that are set up in the public banks. If the ÖVAG had become insolvent – and there have been a few who have taken this seriously; but they obviously have no idea what they would have caused in terms of consequences – this would have led, for various reasons, to the interconnecting of a top-level institution with its sector and with its credit institutions, that it would inevitably have come into bankruptcy and that all regional banks, which are healthy in themselves, would have torn it in. And this would have had the following consequence: First: That all other banks would then have had to contribute about €5 billion to deposit guarantee, €5 billion – and that at a time when it is about building up capital and increasing security for the future. Secondly, That the Federal Government should have filled the difference. That would have been between € 10 and € 11 billion – a sum that is far higher than what is necessary to save. Thirdly, That confidence would have been severely shaken not only by the savers in the banks but also by all the savers, which would have put the stability of the Austrian financial economy at massive risk. Finally, however, it was not only about the trust of the Austrian savers, the Austrians, but also about those of the international markets. Therefore: It was right to do it, and it was right to do it quickly. For the future, however, we have to learn a lot of lessons from it, because what happened there was a scandal, and such scandals can no longer be repeated.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e24227	Mr Steindl has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e24248	Madam President. Appreciate Mrs Financiary Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Today, if we involve the Rabobank model in our banking law, this offers the possibility that we can improve the liability associations in the banking sectors as well as the consolidation possibilities. But there is also a wormhead drop: There are, of course, corresponding rights of access by central banks to regional banks and primary banks. I'm a little worried about that. I believe that if we look at the arguments of recent times, both across Europe and the world, but also in Austria, it is urgently necessary to separate the banks. It has already been said several times today: We must make every effort to organize the investment sector separately in the banking sector and to hand over the conservative part of the banks, i.e. deposits and loans, to a separate management. This also includes a special liability model for the conservative part of the banking areas. It would be best to use this state opportunity that we find here. It has also been shown that a boundless expansion of banks, as has been done in many parts of Europe and the world, is very, very dangerous. For example, if we already have the five-fold balance sheet of our gross social product in Austria, I think we have reached the top point of the scale. Finally, I do not want financial market supervision to recognise these risks and to act accordingly. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e24288	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. The rapporteur does not wish for a final word. We shall now proceed to the vote on the draft law and its title and receipt in 1667 of the supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at the third reading, agree to the draft law to give an appropriate sign. – In turn, this is the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall also proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Podgorschek, colleagues and colleagues on their own banking bankruptcy. Whoever gives this motion for a resolution, I would ask for an appropriate sign. - That's not the majority. The application is rejected. [[21:13:52]] 13. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (1568, e.g._Other Organiser Protocol between the Republic of Austria and the Republic of Slovenia and Additional Protocol amending the Protocol on 1 January 1989 On 26 October 1997, it was signed in Ljubljana to avoid double taxation in the areas of income tax and wealth, as amended by the agreement signed on 26 October 1997. Protocols signed in Ljubljana on September 2006 (1668 B.C.E.)
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e24358	We're going to the 13th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. First, Mr Mag. Mag. Haider on the floor. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e24385	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! It's almost possible to say the simplicity: Already such an amendment to an old double taxation agreement! The FPÖ will vote against, as has always been for two years, because we see in this amendment, in this amendment imposed by the OECD on us or you are forced to amend Article 26 a cave-out and obsolet explanation of the Austrian banking secret. We will therefore not agree to this agreement. The rather more polemic colleagues from the government groups will then say: Aha, the FPÖ already protects the foreign tax evaders again! Pui!, they'll call like last time. The somewhat more complacent colleagues from the other government party will say: Yes, it is bad if we have to shudder at the banking secret, but we have nothing else left, we have no other choice, because if we do not, then we come to the “grey OECD list of tax havens”, and that would be very bad for the economic location of Austria. – And we could leave it and proceed to the vote! This time it is, ladies and gentlemen, but a little different, because for three weeks exactly this federal government has shown us that it is really not necessary to change these double taxation agreements and to understand this OECD Article 26. You must remember everyone: Since the announcement of the savings or tax package three weeks ago, it has also been planned to recover a billion from Switzerland. Well, you can say, let's just do it, since 2006 there's been a double taxation agreement with Switzerland: Amendment Article 26, Switzerland gives up banking secrecy and we can access Austrian tax sinners in Switzerland! Mrs Bundesminister, that would be quite easy, because Switzerland, like Austria, has an interest in not coming to the “grey list”. With Switzerland, however, this is not the case, and Liechtenstein is not the case, because they protect their banking secrets, which do not take over Article 26. If you want anything from them, you have to conclude separate contracts with them. And the negotiations you announced for April are your own subject. We'll see what you got out of it in April. But this also shows that it is not necessary to amend these double taxation agreements at all. That is why we will not agree to this agreement either. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Since it's right now, I still have a very special sugar and Gustopückerl on this topic: I've got a picture of two gentlemen here. [[The speaker points to a photograph in his hand that he shows.]] You know one thing, that's the Foreign Minister and ÖVP-Obmann Spindelegger. The other gentleman, who is less known in Austria, is Mr. Tschütscher. Mr. Tschütscher is the head of government of Liechtenstein, and he was in Vienna two weeks ago, on Thursday two weeks ago. That was the carnival Thursday, the opera ball Thursday. And on this opera ball Thursday, he met with the head of government in the afternoon and received the “Great Golden Honorary Sign of the Republic of Austria at the band for earnings around the Republic of Austria”. [[call to the FPÖ.]] There has been a double taxation agreement with Liechtenstein since the 1950s. In September 2009, your predecessor, Mrs Bundesminister, Minister Pröll, informed Parliament that negotiations are being held to amend this double taxation agreement, to introduce Article 26 with Liechtenstein. And for two and a half years, Liechtensteiners have been holding your predecessor and you in these negotiations. No double taxation agreement has been signed by Liechtenstein for two and a half years. Of course, Liechtensteiners have been protecting their banking secrets for two and a half years and do not sign a change to this double taxation agreement. Two weeks ago, exactly on this subject, the head of government of Liechtenstein was discussed. That's where this order was awarded. And the very special Zuckerl for this is the reason why this Order was granted to him. You can guess three times! – The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has applied for this award and has justified the merits of the Liechtenstein head of government for the measures to avoid double taxation. For two and a half years, ladies and gentlemen, the Austrian government of Liechtenstein has been led around by delay in negotiations, by refusal of signature on the nose! And for this, this government thanks itself with the award of the highest order of the Republic, and it is also based on this kind of prevention, with just this refusal! That, ladies and gentlemen, is not to be surpassed in shame! This government ridicules every description!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e24459	Mr Obernosterer is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e24480	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Haider, I have listened carefully to your comments. [[Abg. New builder: Add nothing!]] You know exactly what the secret of this office is. You know exactly that criminal matters must exist et cetera. I don't think I need to tell you, you know the content. And we know that you are against any double taxation agreement. But why is it so important and so right to make this amendment to the double taxation agreement between the Republic of Austria and the Republic of Slovenia? – You know, Slovenia is one of Austria’s most important economic partners. Just consider how many Austrian companies invest in Slovenia: It was finally €5.2 billion. This is 48 percent of the total investment that foreigners invest in Slovenia. Austria is clearly the number one. We also know that Austria is one of the three main trading partners in Slovenia, Germany and Italy. We also know that Slovenia is a top reform country. You've been ranking from 64 lately. ==References== Worked pre-worked. And there are over 700 Austrian branches in Slovenia, for example, whether these are gas stations, supermarkets or building markets et cetera. As I said, there is simply this close link between Austria and Slovenia, which is one of the most important economic partners and also political partners of Austria. Let us also be glad that the latter, which is still a bit in the way when it comes to the political climate, namely the question of the town boards, has also been dealt with. That is why, I believe, it is also necessary, right and important, to conclude this protocol to amend the double taxation agreement and to decide here today. - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e24515	Mr Ing. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party to the - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e24536	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! By amending the double taxation agreement with Slovenia under discussion, Austria fulfils its obligation to adapt to the new OECD standards. In concrete terms, the implementation of the new standards on transparency and willingness to provide assistance is a prerequisite for, among other things, effective action against tax crime. – And it is not, as Mr Haider claims, about the evasion of banking secrecy for Austrian citizens. There's nothing going on with this one. The new OECD standards ensure greater cooperation in money laundering and tax fraud. And a consistent commitment against money laundering and tax fraud can yes may only be in the interests of all honest taxpayers. I think that all those who do not wish to give this agreement support to the black sheep who abuse the tax system, but also oppose all those citizens who comply with their tax duty. Austria and Slovenia have historically grown intensive relations, both in economic and political and cultural terms. As an economic partner, Slovenia is of particular importance, especially since Slovenia is the largest per capita customer of Austrian goods. The ratio of exports to imports in 2010 is 2.2 billion to 1.2 billion in favour of exports. Austria is an export country, and therefore a very high percentage of employees in Austria is directly and indirectly export-dependent. All the more important are agreements such as today's agreement on legal certainty for the Austrian economy, legal certainty for workers, but also for taxpayers. That is why I would ask all those who still intend not to agree to the agreement to continue to consider this behaviour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e24579	Mr Ing. Gartlehner is the next one to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e24615	Madam President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I join in essentially with the statements made by my previous speakers, who also believe that these decisions are useful. We have very many Austrian companies, especially from Carinthia, Slovenia, from the Styria good wine growers who grow wonderful wines in Slovenia. It is therefore very useful and useful if we take this decision today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e24652	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. No final word is desired. We shall come to the vote. [[Abg. Dr. Bartenstein stands at the government bank and talks with Federal Minister Dr. Fekter and Federal Minister Hundstorfer.]] – Mr Bartenstein! We shall vote on the request of the Financial Committee, the conclusion of the State Treaty in 1568 of the Supplements in accordance with Article 50(1). 1 Z 1 B-VG. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this. – This is accepted by a majority. [[21:27:20]] 14. Point Report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the Government Template (1634, e.g._Other Organiser Federal law, with which a federal law to promote free Willing engagement (voluntary law – FreiwG) will be passed as well as the family compensation law, the General Social Insurance Act, the Commercial Social Insurance Act, the Farm Social Insurance Act, the Unemployment Insurance Act and the Fees Act (1661 d.b.) 15. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment No 1458/A(E) by Mr Ursula Haubner, colleague and colleagues on the promotion of voluntaryity (1662b)
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e24728	We now come to points 14 and 15 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. We are going into the debate. First, Mr. Ing. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e24759	Madam President. Federal Minister! [[Deputies Dr. Bartenstein and Dr. Matznetter stand at the government bank and talk to Federal Minister Dr. Fekter and Federal Minister Hundstorfer.]] [[Abg. Grosz: Can you perhaps hide the delegates from the government bank?]] I do not want to disturb you during your discussion with the former ministerial colleagues. [[Abg. May. Kogler: (in the direction of Federal Minister Dr. Fekter, Federal Minister Hundstorfer and Deputies Dr. Bartenstein and Dr. Matznetter) Have you already packed the quartet cards?]] [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] [[Abg. Grosz: According to unconfirmed rumors, it's snapshot cards!]] [[Deputies Dr. Bartenstein and Dr. Matznetter remove themselves from the government bank.]] Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, praise ahead: This draft law finally also defines what voluntary work in Austria actually is. It has always been a problem for us in recent years when we have proposed measures in favour of volunteers to define clearly: What is voluntary work? – And from my point of view, this has been very, very well done. I should like to stress once again how important this activity is to us volunteers in Austria: It is 15 million hours a week that are done voluntarily in this country. Calculate – you can start from an hourly rate of € 10 – which actually means for the country! Whoever was in Hungary – and I very much appreciate this country – and there had a car accident, who knows that he has to wait very, very long there for a rescue because there is no volunteer system there, because only the state organizational units are active there and it is hard to manage that over a state organization. But what we lack in this law is the answer to the question: How do we actually support this volunteer work? There are three concrete measures that we have proposed and which have unfortunately not been implemented. Firstly, the inclusion in the public service. We were in favour of the fact that if someone recruits in the public service, he is taken with the same qualification as the one who does volunteer work. It has been said over and over again: Well, this preference is legally problematic. – I believe that it is not because, for example, we know the SPÖ’s demand, which says that there should be positive discrimination against migrants in the public service, i.e. a preferred reception. What is possible here is, of course, just as possible in the field of volunteering. I would like to address a problem of volunteering and immigration. I believe that it is extremely important that people who have settled in Austria are also active in the associations, in the aid organisations and are involved there and that they have the opportunity to live much, much stronger than they have been in Austria. As far as the numbers we currently have are concerned, we see that among the immigrants of this voluntary commitment is very strong, especially in the cultural field, also very strong in the religious field, but less in the classical aid organizations. But I believe that there – Red Cross, Fire Department and so on – is the most likely way to live, integrate and experience what community in this community means. That is why we are very much in favour of taking all the measures here so that those who appreciate and love Austria and have found a new home here will also become much more active in these aid organisations than before. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But that's why: I believe that this proposal for a preferred inclusion in the public service in the event of equal qualifications is a more sensible one. A second area: Many of those who work here in Parliament come from rural areas, and of course they know many smaller businesses that employ a lot of volunteers. An example: In a car workshop near my home community, every second employee is active in the fire department. So if it really burns, then it will be difficult for this small businessman – he has to work out his orders – to really do his job. And yet he takes up employees who are active in the volunteer fire brigade. I believe that such entrepreneurs can be supported by bonuses, through fiscal measures, because this failure in the company also poses a significant risk to them. That's where we should be. Or as a third measure we have proposed: A VAT refund on the purchase of equipment for direct use, i.e., mountain shears, for example, and so on and so on. These were the three things that we have proposed, and we will not agree to the draft today only because we are still lacking these concrete implementation measures. [[Abg. Steibl: But this is a big mistake!]] But I say: It is a very important step in the right direction that is finally defined what volunteer work is, and we are pleased to continue to work with you on this law in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e24867	Mrs Csörgits is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e24889	Madam President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! On the one hand, this bill implements a Federal Government project, and on the other, I can remind you that 2011 was the European Year of Voluntaryness – voluntary commitment in a legal framework. What is particularly important to me in this project is that it also ensures that this volunteering does not constitute a competition with the so-called “normal” labour market – and let me put it under the lead mark now. I would like to begin by thanking all those who work voluntarily in this country, whether they are charities, social services, churches or political parties, for their voluntary activity. These activities are an important part of our cooperation and a very, very important contribution to our living together, and I would like to thank all those ladies and gentlemen, those people who spend their free time in these associations very much. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Now on the most important points. It is very crucial in the context of the government template that once it is ensured that there is a planning certainty for the so-called voluntary social year, and quite importantly, it is also important that a clarification has been made that it is not an employment relationship. This voluntary social year is based on two pillars: on the one hand, the vocational and educational orientation for young people and on the other the voluntary commitment. For young people, the voluntary social year from the completion of the 17th century is possible. In the case of a period of six months up to a maximum of twelve months, or under special conditions from the age of 16 onwards. It is also very important that institutions offering this voluntary social year are subject to a very sharp admission procedure, so that it is also ensured that economic conditions are met on the one hand, but also that the education concept, which plays a very, very important role in this voluntary social year, can be implemented. And what is also very important is that young people who do this work are also at the disposal of those who, in difficult situations – for often, as volunteers or volunteers, are also confronted with difficult situations, such as in the rescue service with seriously injured ones – provide assistance. I said already in my introduction that it is also a labour market neutrality which is a very, very important central aspect of this draft, and it is also stated that, if someone works voluntarily in an association, this must not lead to the termination of an employee working in this association. A very special attention is also paid to the fact that this is not the case. It is also ensured that health/accident insurance is included and that a pocket money is also paid out. I am very grateful to all the colleagues and their ministries who were responsible for preparing this government proposal and putting it into a framework. Thank you very much, it is a good step in the right direction!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e24943	Mr Dolinschek is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e24964	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I say in advance that volunteering is particularly pronounced in Austria, which is not a matter of course in other countries, and that is why it is important that we now create a voluntary law. We will also be making this voluntary law We do not agree, although we do not agree with all of this, because it is too far-reaching. The quality assurance standards for voluntary organisations as well as the legal anchoring of the voluntary report and the voluntary council and the exemption from the statutory entry fee for criminal record certificates are to be mentioned positively. They must definitely be highlighted. The establishment of a voluntary recognition fund is also to be welcomed. Unfortunately, this voluntary law has become, as it were, a mini-version, a mini-law, because no incentives have been created with this law to stimulate more people to cooperate in a voluntary organization. And there are also some key points missing, such as the security of volunteers in their activities. There have been some things left open, such as liability risks and insurance protection in certain areas. In my opinion, voluntaryness must receive the appreciation it deserves. In my view, therefore, it would also be important to improve the framework conditions for volunteering. I imagine a few things here, such as a large amount of insurance for volunteers in aid organisations. Also mentioned was today a bonus for the companies that employ voluntary employees of Blue Light organizations, and also a fee of wage costs in case of longer bets. In contrast, what I do not understand and what is at present a great excitement, especially in the case of the volunteer fire brigades, is the new EU regulation on working time law that no one is allowed to exceed 48 hours of working time. If someone has already worked 40 hours in operation and is in operation for eight hours, then he should stop, so to speak, – and the house should keep burning or how? This is a completely pointless regulation from the EU, like several others, such as cucumbers, banana curvature and so on, and so on. That's what we can do. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Ladies and gentlemen, what voluntary helpers do every day in the fire brigade, the Red Cross, when mountain rescue is in the interest of the population is quite impressive. For them solidarity is not an empty word, and self-interest and egoism are put to the test. This should, as it were, be honoured by us, by politics, by improved framework conditions.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e25016	Next speaker: Mrs Steibl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e25037	Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! I would like to welcome Judith Marte to the gallery in the first place. She is the chairman of the association “Voluntary Social Year” and is there with 20 young people who are currently doing this voluntary social year. That's 20 out of about 400 a year. – Thank you, our respect you have! [[General condolences.]] This voluntary law brings a new dynamic into voluntary work and also a security in the voluntary social year. This has recently been said by Caritas President Franz Küberl. I also say this with honest, open heart, but when it says Franz Küberl, it has an even greater importance, because it is not often heard of a praise for government work. Yes, it's a long-term demand, and sometimes the mills slow down. I remember that ten years ago I worked in this direction, also with Judith Marte, that there was a family minister, social ministers, who had just moved this a little bit back and forth, so that it would not become a fixed arrangement. It has now succeeded, and I would like to thank our social spokesmen, whether our colleague Csörgits, or August Wöginger, who is not here today, because his wife is probably having a baby during this day or night, also here really thank you for this commitment, that it is now from this voluntary arrangement, where it is the family allowance at least until the 24. I would like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President, for his excellent report. I think that this proposal has now become a solid rule, and we really must say thank you for the previous negotiations. And, of course, this includes our Minister of Social Affairs. As has been said, the grant of family aid is up to 24 years old. Year of life guaranteed in these operations. And, of course, it was also made clear that it is already important that the services – voluntary social year, environmental protection year, memorial service, peace and social service – are not an employment relationship, but rather a training and a professional orientation or corresponding measures, and that there are also high quality requirements here, which, as it were, shape the career. The voluntary social year, the environmental year, the year of peace and commemoration is thus secured. It has already been mentioned that there are three million Austrian volunteers, including in other areas, not in the social year or in these services, and that this is actually more than 15 million hours a week by people over 15 years of age. That's a great value, a value that you could never have financially paid off. As Mr Hofer mentioned at the outset that it was necessary to regulate by law that at least in the public service these services should be recognised: It is to be said that it is necessary, especially in the rural regions, in the municipalities, such as my community, and is also in the call for tender, if, for example, a municipal worker is included, at least in the voluntary fire brigade or in the Red Cross, in these common institutions, he is volunteered. This, of course, has other reasons, as we know. Especially in the fire brigade or in the Red Cross there are very many professionals. These do not always work out in the rural community, but commuting. So this is a win-win situation, and my knowledge will also include Chancellor Faymann to write a letter to all these public institutions to highlight the importance of this work. Summary: I think that is really a positive item on the agenda. I would just have liked to see as many colleagues here as they did in the previous discussions on banking. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e25094	Next speaker: Mrs Windbüchler-Sushill. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e25116	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Dear Social Service leaders, a warm welcome to the High House! There is no doubt that this law is a real one. important first step in voluntary policy and in securing voluntary work, but it is also a first important step that has long been awaited. In particular, the organizers of the various services know how long such a voluntary law would have been necessary, because at least 45 percent of all Austrian women aged 15 and over are volunteering in any form. This is a large number of people who use their free time to be there for social peace, but also for ecological peace. And of course that also needs a legal framework. It is not only the voluntary social year, Mrs Csörgits, but, also very important, the so-called environmental year and also commemorative service at home and abroad, voluntary services in the social field, also abroad. For me, the key elements of this law are primarily the educational support and care, the training character that has not been given until now, and the fact that the voluntary services are also there to fix the vocational orientation by asking precisely these young people after this one year: What am I doing? What training can I do? What study do I want to start? It's supposed to help get into the professional biography, so to speak. Quite honestly, I really like this law, too, because I think it is also a start for a general voluntary civil service if the military service is eventually abolished and civil service needs to be restructured in such a way that it becomes a volunteer service. I think that's really a good foundation. Nevertheless, it is only a first step, and there are, of course, things that are worthy of improvement and also worthy of discussion, such as the voluntary passport. Currently, the voluntary passport is a collection of stamps from voluntary organizations and young people cannot begin with these stamps. They cannot be credited with ECTS points in relevant training courses. They cannot say, for example, at an FH for social work, that they have relevant experience in the field of leisure education, in the group dynamic field. All of this would definitely be important. And the second big point is that when young people make a voluntary social year, they make a voluntary ecological year, and, of course, they also receive family support – and this is also right and important – there is no extension of the reference period of family aid when they are studying. I think this is very, very bad, because this year, as a volunteer, who is also supposed to be a professional orientation, should not be a disadvantage even if I do a training. In other words, what we are calling for is quite clearly the extension of the period of reference of the family aid. I therefore propose the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e25185	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e25255	Next speaker: Federal Minister Hundstorfer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e25277	Madam President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Also a warm welcome to the gallery, ladies and gentlemen – and thank you for what you do! I would like to try to explain a few things, and I would like to invite the liberals to participate – that is, of course, lost love, but I still give them two minutes. It is indeed a pity, Mr Hofer, if you try to say no – and that with reasons where you know very well that I have no competence for this. For the volunteer fire brigades I really have no competence! Although my department is very broad, I have many competences, but the volunteer fire brigades are certainly part of the interior. The social sector cannot regulate the tax-advanced purchase of fire brigade equipment. I can't. The thing I could do is that I control that the issue of a Leumund's certificate is now free for everyone. And that's what I did. But you know very well that I cannot regulate this by this law, because there is a certain division of competence and we cannot bring together all the volunteers – from the tax law on civil protection. Voluntary work is something more colorful and also broader, something where more than three million Austrians are involved: This begins with art and culture, with blue light organizations, with social institutions, which in turn have nothing to do with the blue light, et cetera. That's why: Give yourself a back again, think about it again! - That's one thing. The second is: What we can do in the public service is already happening, in the form of the already mentioned newsletter. We will inform all the departments with a circular letter from the Federal Chancellery that persons who work in voluntary organizations and declare themselves openly declared that they are doing so are treated in this respect. On the matter of working time, Mr Dolinschek, and on why this has become such a subject. These are not practical bureaucrats, who have done this on the subject, but they are a matter which has been in the drawer since 2003 and has recently been brought out of the trap by the European social partners, so to speak. The European social partners are finally trying to complete this working time directive in the ninth year of its conception, perhaps even in the tenth year. That's the background. In addition, there are some media that think, now they can do a little bit of EU-critical again, I can only say: That's ridiculous! [[Abg. Dolinschek: at the fire brigade!]] This is ridiculous, because it is clearly defined that a working time directive applies to workers – and not to people doing volunteer work. And I can only say to this quelling, which is where one medium was committed: That's cut-off. And I can only say to the editor or editor: Please go back to the school bench! That's it. There is only one case-consistency, where there may possibly be a collision, with those employees of companies who have been deliberately taken up because they are working on voluntary fire brigades – and if they are members of operational fire brigades at the same time, while working time, so to speak, the “bude” is burning down and something has to be done ad hocly. This is the only case constellation where something can happen between volunteer work and its employee activity. And then there is a second case constellation, because there are some volunteer fire brigades, because of the size of their catchment area, because of what they have to do, no longer manage to get out without major employees. Let's just take the volunteer fire brigades along the South Railway: Wiener Neudorf, Mödling, Baden – these are partly unfortunately very many hours in use. These have some of the main employees – yes, they exist – and for them the working time law, but not as members of the volunteer fire brigade, but the employer is called voluntary fire brigade Sowieso. In the meantime there is one in many parts of Austria, there two and so on. That's just for the purpose of reconnaissance. It's not the practice for a bureaucrat... – Yes, I already did. [[Abg. Dolinschek: Don't make me clear – the volunteer fire brigade will clarify!]] I did this very thoroughly in the morning in Graz with the Styrian fire brigade. What I want to say is: Let's try not to fall there! It's really not a case. Ladies and gentlemen! We have created something very positive here, I think, but this leaves a few questions of further development open – as always. It is, as has already been said, a legislative matter whose realization took a very long time. Many prejudices had to be made clear, because of course we did not – I want to do so at least! – want to open the back door for completely new forms of employment. That's not what any of us want. That's why I can only invite you: Go along with this first step! In this way, in Austria, we reached a unanimous decision on this first voluntary law. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e25338	Mr Riepl is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e25360	Madam President. Federal Minister! It has already been said a lot about this proposal for a law, so perhaps only briefly: The Voluntary Law provides support and support for voluntary activities in our country as well as better security for people who volunteer and volunteer for others. Mr Dolinschek, I think that we should not, as you have done, speak of a mini-law and criticise the lack of incentives. In my opinion, this law contains some incentives that may lead to – And that's what we all hope for – even more young people are interested in such an activity and then we are doing it. Many people in Austria work voluntarily and voluntarily in the interests of the public – it has already been pointed out – and a few hundred are currently working in a voluntary social year, a voluntary year of the environment, or in the peace and social service. I think voluntary activity is a small gemstone of a social and solidarity society and valuable for a good living together in our country. And therefore also from the Social Democracy in this House thank you very much to you at the gallery, which you can listen here today and experience the law making a little bit. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Incentives, Mr Dolinschek. – I believe that the framework conditions are right. There we are, I believe, agreed. Minimum standards have now been introduced, including a small improvement, especially for recognised associations and organisations. As has already been said, the participants have the right to pocket money, exemption, in other words, holiday entitlement, the social security is regulated. So there are some things that, I think, can be an incentive for such an activity. I think that this activity is also an opportunity for a later entry into a social profession. This should not be forgotten in this context. Whoever takes on social responsibility as a youth in the form of a voluntary activity may also be able to continue as an adult – with high probability, I even believe – and perhaps later also to inspire his children for a social and just society. And if it goes halfway in this direction, we decide today what is very valuable to our society. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e25411	Mr Huainigg has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e25432	Madam President. Minister! It took a little while for me to go to the speaker's desk, but also to regulate the FSJ has taken some years. I would also like to welcome 20 young people at the gallery who make the voluntary social year. They live before what it means to engage socially, and they have also convinced politics so that we will come to this legislative decision today. I would like to thank them for that. They will no longer benefit from the new law, but they have prepared the way for other young people who will be volunteering. [[General condolences.]] We have been able to regulate some of the structures. Those who complete the FSJ are insured, pension insurance, accident insurance, but also receive family allowance and pocket money, and this is important. What I very much welcome is that not only in Austria there is voluntary work in this law, but also in the last minute the memorial service could be included, the voluntary ecological year and external volunteering. This is very important, because who has been with Father once a year as a youth Georg Sporschill, with street children in Romania, who really learns for his life. Just like young people who work in an institution for disabled people. I have personally experienced in conversation with young people that after the year they no longer put the disability in the foreground, but the people and above all the skills he has; and there you learn for his life. I would like to thank Minister Hundstorfer, who has worked to ensure that the Voluntary Act has come into effect, as did Minister Mitterlehner, Minister Fekter, but especially my colleague August Wöginger. He has been very committed to the fact that this political baby is coming into the world today, and at the same time he is standing in the circuit hall and having a second baby. Finally, I would like to thank the young people for their commitment and say to them: Just keep going, Your Honor's office pays off! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e25490	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Lap. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e25511	Madam President. Mr. Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! We really have a historic moment here today, because after the European Year of Volunteering, we can also decide on a voluntary law. This is an important result. I can still remember discussions in the Austrian Voluntary Council a year and a half ago, where it was necessary to define and define volunteering, so that there is a demarcation to work and so that there is no possibility that the generation of internships to young people who provide voluntary services, so to speak, will be voluntaryly active, that they will then be integrated into the work process, without training and without additional conditions. In Austria, there is a high proportion of voluntary engagement. With 44 percent, we are a top country in Europe, many other European countries. The division of Austrians from 15 to 15 years of age. Working age, starting with culture and entertainment is 17 percent, then sport comes with 15 percent, the church organizations with 14 percent and the relief services, speak disaster relief services and rescue services, with 13.7 percent. The distribution between men and women is also different. In men, sport, disaster relief services and rescue services are the top priority among women's church and cultural organizations. What is an important contribution is the definition of volunteering, which is set out in this law, and above all the criteria for organisations, so that they have a well-founded basis when they involve volunteers in their organisation. The voluntary social year is also an important item. It has already been referred to Mrs Marte today, and I would also like to thank her for showing me what comprehensive offers there are for young people during the voluntary social year. Long discussion processes have led to an important result, and I am also sure that we can continue to build on this important result, which is a good foundation for volunteering in Austria. Minister, congratulations to your house and you!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e25553	The next item is the speech by Mr Vock. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e25575	Madam President. Minister! It was very nice to make an offer here during the plenary session, with you already knowing our opinions and opinions in advance, and with your will it would have been possible to launch a joint motion for a resolution or joint initiatives in advance. We are already clear, for example the VAT refund is not Your place of business, you are not responsible for this, but you could of course start common will evangelies. What we have noticed is that there are two opinions that one cannot simply reject. First of all, this is the opinion of the Austrian Bundeswehrverband: "The ÖBFV welcomes the BMASK's initiative to improve the legal framework for voluntary work in Austria. Unfortunately, however, the draft is limited only to partial aspects of voluntary work, such as the voluntary social year, which seems to be too little ambitious.” The opinion of the Austrian Red Cross: ‘In general, it should be noted that the introduction of legal regulations for the voluntary social year should by no means lead to the creation of a ‘two-class society’ among volunteers. While participants in the FSJ will receive a pocket money in the future and will enjoy increased social security coverage, numerous volunteers – for example in the rescue service – continue to provide their services in the service of the Austrian population without enjoying the benefit of a security as provided for in the FSJ. The large group of volunteers, who perform their services in the interest of the public for years – and usually in addition to a primary activity – must not be neglected.” – The Red Cross. We do not see both opinions taken into account in your paper, not even in the light of the above. However, we are now also discussing the item on the agenda on Mr Haubner's request, which would go much further. That would be a basis for discussion. One could have said that, okay, maybe not all points can be implemented, but one goes partly on these points. The liberal demands, Mr Hofer has already said, would be relatively clear: This is the preferred inclusion in the public service of equivalent candidates, but generally for all who do volunteer work, compensation for small businesses for loss of service by volunteering and the VAT refund for technical equipment. It is clear to us that this is not all your place of business, but again: Initiatives can also be set up as ministers if the will is available. We are basically saying yes to voluntary work, but we should promote voluntary work in general and not just individual target groups!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e25636	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. There is no final word on the part of the rapporteur. We shall proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First of all, we come to the vote on the draft federal law establishing a federal law for the promotion of voluntary commitment, as well as the family compensation law, the General Social Insurance Act, the Commercial Social Insurance Act and other laws, including title and receipt in 1661 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give this draft law a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who will also give their approval to this draft law at third reading to give a sign. – In turn, this is the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[Congratulations on the gallery.]] – Today I see beyond something that must not happen here. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Windbüchler-Sushill, colleagues on the right to family allowances until 25 years after the end of a voluntary year. I ask the Ladies and gentlemen, who are in favour of this motion for a resolution, are a sign. – This is the minority. This motion for a resolution has not been adopted. We shall vote on the request of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 1662 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to do so to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. [[22:11:57]] 16. Point Report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the Government Template (1633, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law amending the Code on Victim Care (1663 d.b.) 17. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment No 663/A by Mr Karl Oellinger, colleagues, on a law amending the Code on Victim Care (1664, e.g.)
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e25734	We now come to the points 16 and 17 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. We are going into the debate. The first is Mrs Königsberger-Ludwig. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e25768	Madam President. Estimated Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Austria has special responsibility in dealing with victims of National Socialism. I think that is beyond doubt for all of us. Since 1945, exactly since the 17th century. July, there is a victim care law that first granted a very small victim group – it was only the Austrian resistance fighters – certain care measures, benefits or pensions. This law, we all know, followed a series of innovations, in which especially the circle of the claimants was increasingly extended and, as I think, Austria's responsibility became more and more just. The implementation of this Code of Victim Care has been the responsibility of the countries since then. In the course of discussions on administrative simplifications there were also of the country's representatives, of the national leaders the proposal to postpone the first instance competence of the national leaders in the implementation of the victim welfare law to the BSA, to the Federal Social Office. Thus, the victim welfare law is to be transferred from the middle to the immediate federal execution. Today's decision, which we are likely to adopt unanimously, will implement this approach to the national conference. With this decision, we are convinced that the transfer will lead to synergies that will benefit the people concerned in particular, because this will also reduce the duration of the proceedings, which have always been the reason for criticism in the past. The duration of the proceedings was very different in the federal states as well. We know that these procedures lasted from three months in Burgenland for up to 20 months in Carinthia. The synergies that will undoubtedly result from the Federal Social Office will certainly reduce the duration of the proceedings. In addition, the organisation structure of the Federal Social Office with the nine country offices makes it possible to provide a particularly close-to-bourgeois support, and the claimants can also use assistance by direct contact with the caretakers of the Federal Social Office's national offices far beyond the claims of the Victim Care Act. I think that this is a very, very important measure for people, even with regard to the age of the people who are going to make their requests there. I see many advantages in this law, especially for the people concerned who deserve rapid decisions. However, there has also been criticism in the review process, especially of the victim organisations. These were mainly concerns about the abolition of the first-institutional pension commission. These concerns were taken very seriously, and these concerns could then be eliminated in discussions, including with the Minister. They agreed to set up a national pension commission, formerly nine national pension commissions, with representatives of the victim associations. There will be another request from Mr Keck in this regard today. In this way, these concerns of the victim organisations could also be removed, and I am truly convinced that we are today adopting a very good law, especially in the sense of the people concerned, which can thus again benefit from a number of improvements.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e25822	Mr Maij-Weggen has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e25843	Madam President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! My predecessor has already pointed out what great responsibility we have, of course, towards the victims of this dark history of Austria in particular. We have already already documented this in various other laws, I believe, very clearly that we want to make reparation for these victims at least in the form of payments. This is also the case with this Code of Victim Care, which was decided in 1947 to provide social care for the victims of National Socialism. Accordingly, this law was created, and with many innovations, that has already been addressed, it has been valid to this day. Overall, 1 902 people are still involved, and that is enough reason for us to change this victim care law to the point that the procedures in question are actually being accelerated. It is also, I believe, for the first time an important and visible contribution to the success of administrative reform. I think we can also assess this in this respect. My previous speaker pointed out that the Heads of State Conference welcomed this and that in future these procedures should only be negotiated at the Federal Social Office. This is good and true, even if there are criticisms in this regard from individual associations that do not accept the link between war victims' care and the victim care law, for reasons which have also been set out from their point of view. For us, it is important that we adopt this law today in order to live up to what our intention is, at least to offer a little reparation to the victims of this time. In this sense, I hope that this law will also be passed unanimously. There will also be an amendment which will bring about an additional organisational improvement. That's a good thing we'll agree with. We will do this out of full conviction for our responsibility to these victims, we will give our consent to this law out of full conviction.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e25884	Mr Oellinger has now come to speak. Mr President, you know the rest of your group's speaking time: 9 minutes in total. I put the watch on the desired 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e25905	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! The implementation of the Code of Victim Care is currently a matter of country, and in many cases this has not been the case. There were clear and inexplicable delays in the procedures in individual federal states, including the willingness of the federal states to respond to requests, there were great differences between the federal states. There were also federal states that would have to praise how well they worked. As a whole, we have been and are ready to agree to this system of convergence, which is now being proposed, because it is associated with a significant reduction in the procedure. We'll find that right. We find less good, Mr Federal Minister, that although the benefits have been increased for the last time under the Victim Care Act in 1964, these are not, as proposed by us, once valorised. This is a pity, but in principle, as far as the core of the victim welfare law is concerned, we agree with the proposed amendment.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e25937	Mr Dolinschek is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e25959	Madam President. Federal Minister! If, in the future, the implementation of the Code of Victim Care is to be carried out at first instance no longer by the authorities of the state governments, but by the Federal Social Offices and these responsible for the care of victims, it is because the Federal Social Offices are already using synergies for the victims of war, for the army, for the compensation of crime victims and for vaccination damage. Of course, we also expect a reduction in the duration of the proceedings. This is seen positively by us. We have been working for years for administrative reform, and this is a small step that is being implemented. Citizens' support for victims and local survivors is ensured, and a comprehensive consultation and care provision by the Federal Social Offices is also guaranteed. As regards the valorization of family and social benefits mentioned by Mr Öllinger, I am on his side that something should be done there. But this law novel to the victim welfare law we will give our consent.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e25992	Next speaker: Mr Keck. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e26013	Madam President. Minister! The former German Federal President Richard von Weizsäcker once said in the light of war and National Socialism that the boys would not be guilty of what happened at the time, but that they would bear the responsibility for what is going to happen in history. We, ladies and gentlemen, are the boys weizsäcker meant, because we are the ones who did not have to experience the war, we are the ones who fortunately bear no blame on the horrors and crimes of the time. So with us the responsibility lies in dealing with the victims of the time, and we also assume this responsibility, among other things, through this victim care law. Let us take a look, ladies and gentlemen, at what victim care means in the legal sense. We support with this law people who were wrong at the time in the greenhouse or concentration camp for at least three months, who were unable to do any vocational training that would cause permanent and serious health damage. have suffered from forced sterilization, which had to hide for at least six months, or which were forced to bear a star of the Jews. The Code of Victim Care provides support for those concerned, which has become necessary for many. At present, some 3,000 people are being helped by this law. In total, around €16 million is spent, and per month and person this is less than €450. And this number, ladies and gentlemen, is constantly decreasing. In 2010, there were only 1 884 pensions that were paid out, and the same applies to the applications for benefits under the Victim Care Act. It sinks and is extremely different regionally. In Vienna, for example, only more than 750 applications were submitted from 2005 to 2010, in Lower Austria there were only nine applications, in Tyrol only five and in Vorarlberg only more than four. It is not surprising, ladies and gentlemen, because each request is subject to an average procedural period of three to even 20 months. Remarkable is that the country of Carinthia works most slowly here. Let us also remember that we are talking here about those who make these applications, which are 80 years old or older today. The legislative amendment requested today should therefore not only bring about an administrative improvement, it should help those affected. We transfer responsibility to the Federal Social Offices, i.e. to professionals who are already side by side with people with disabilities. We delete nine pension commissions and create a common for faster decisions. In order to achieve even more improvement, I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Under the rule, ladies and gentlemen, this means more transparency, equal rights for all and, hopefully, a very clear process acceleration. That is our duty to the victims, and I ask for your consent.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e26097	The amendment just tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e26154	Next speaker: Mr Spindelberger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e26175	Ladies and gentlemen! As we have already heard, it has been time for this law to be transferred from national competence to federal competence. I have only felt it a bit strange if all the previous speakers have now also pointed out that this step, which has long been necessary, is due to the fact that the Conference of State Chiefs has taken a unanimous decision in this direction. Why I say this is also obvious, because I would like to see this national conference, which is merely an informal meeting and which is nowhere anchored in the federal constitution, taking such positive decisions in other areas. Because every day, when I am on my way, I hear from the citizens again and again that it is still not possible to adopt, for example, a uniform law on youth, or to enshrine uniform building regulations in a federal law throughout Austria. I would like to see this very group of people not only speak of the fact that there is a standstill in the federal government, while he himself, when it comes to his own interests and his own retention of power, is not willing to give up some kind of blockade. But now back to the victim care law. We have already heard that in Austria, 3 000 persons, of whom approximately 1 900 refer a monthly pension according to the legal provisions, are people who have had to prove that: they had been resident in Austria for at least ten years in 1938. And these are, as Mr Keck has just said, people who are over 80 years old today who have been victims of war or victims of political persecution and who have also suffered serious permanent health damage. And if you know that the duration of such applications has often lasted many months – in Carinthia, for example, for 20 months – then this period of procedure is far less than six months in the case of matters settled at the Federal Social Office. I am therefore sure that, through these new structures and through the use of synergies, a faster conclusion of the procedure will be achieved in this area as well as better support for those concerned on the ground.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e26215	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We shall proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First, we reach the vote on the draft federal law amending the victim welfare law in 1633 of the supplements. Mr Csörgits, Mr Maij-Weggen and Mr Oellinger have tabled an amendment which refers to Z7. Since the present draft law contains constitutional provisions, I first put it within the meaning of § 82 para. 2 C 1 of the Rules of Procedure, the presence of the constitutional number of Members required for the vote. Since there is only one motion for a resolution, I shall immediately vote on the draft law, title and receipt, as amended by the Government template, taking account of the amendment tabled by Mr Csörgits, Mr Slickovits, Mr Oellinger, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. I am looking for those members of the House who stand up to do so in order to have a corresponding sign. – This is unanimously accepted. I expressly note that the two-thirds majority required for constitutional purposes are given. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – unanimity. The draft law was therefore adopted at third reading. Here again, I expressly note the constitutionally required two-thirds majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 1664 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to this to give a sign. – This is accepted by the majority. [[22:31:25]] 18. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the motion for a resolution 1811/A by Renate Csörgits, August Wöginger, colleagues concerning a federal law amending the holiday law and the Land Labor Act 1984 (1665, B.)
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e26300	We arrive at the 18th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. First of all, Mrs Oberhauser is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e26327	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! With the amendment of the holiday law and the country labour law which we will adopt today, as I believe, a great step has been taken towards equality between women. Why? – Until now, the legal situation has been that holidays that were not consumed before the arrival of the mother's or the father's care could only be postponed by a maximum of ten months, which lasted a maternity care or father's care. And that means: This holiday expires. This was unfair, especially for women who used longer maternity and care periods. This is now being re-regulated, i.e. the decay of the holiday can be postponed as long as the duration of the leave period was. This is a step towards the improvement of women, but this is not the only step that has been taken in recent months. Remember how Deputies Katzian proclaimed women's special wage rounds in the summer of 2011. If you look back a little bit, what happened in the question of the closure of income shears and in the question of the improvement of women, you can see that many collective contracts – metal, trade, trade – really achieved fundamental improvements for women, namely, how time taken for women in working life can be counted. Equality, equal treatment for women – something where, as I believe, we all believe that it belongs to progress – and this is going a big step further with this law. I guarantee that even in collective treaty negotiations conducted by the trade unions, further steps will be taken so that women have a better position in working life than they are currently.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e26365	Next speaker: Mr Höfinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e26386	Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, the time has progressed; in terms of content, my previous speaker has explained very in detail what this proposal is all about. I can only underline this and agree with it. We always say: Courage to the child!, courage to the family!, and therefore there must not be such disadvantages, as has been the case so far, but the holiday claims you acquired before the arrival of the karenz period should remain. I think this is a support for women, for mothers, but also for fathers. Quite simply: This is a good way for families, even there equal rights We shall therefore vote in favour of this proposal by the ÖVP. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e26421	Next speaker: Mr Oellinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e26443	My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! From the fact that women claim karenz, they must not suffer a disadvantage. This change, which is now being made, is to be welcomed – and that is why we Greens are happy to agree.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e26470	Next speaker: Mr Dolinschek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e26491	Madam President. Federal Minister! Unfortunately, so far, parental leave has been lost or shortened – and now legal certainty is created with a change of the holiday law. It is preceded by a judgment of the European Court of Justice. In the future, therefore, periods after maternity or after the father's care can be fully used without limitation, for these times remain upright. That is why we will vote in favour of the BZÖ, as will all the other groups in this House.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e26519	Next speaker: Mr Hechtl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e26540	Madam President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen of the House! This issue has already been discussed in detail – also that it is a matter of understanding on the basis of an ECJ judgment. I just want to add that with these changes much more clarity as well as justice has been included in the holiday law. All of you will certainly agree with me that this is a small legislative change, but with very positive effects. In short: For employees, the essential benefits will be borne. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e26573	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. No final word on the part of the reporting is desired. We therefore proceed to the vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 1665 of the supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this draft at third reading too, to give a sign. – The draft law is therefore also unanimously adopted at third reading. [[22:37:38]] 19. Point First reading: Request by Mr Ing. Norbert Hofer, colleagues and colleagues concerning a federal law with which the Federal Law on Mineral Raw Materials, on the amendment of the Workers' Protection Act and the Labour Inspection Act 1993 (MinroG), BGBl. I No. 38/1999, amended (1779/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e26628	We're entering the 19th. Agenda item. First of all, Mr Ing. Hofer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e26652	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! I would immediately like to say that we are currently in discussions – with the Greens and the BZÖ – and that we will make a similar request together. I hope, anyway, that this will succeed. We have oil and natural gas stocks in Austria, but to a rather modest extent, and these oil and natural gas stocks are owned by the Republic of Austria. Whoever wants to promote oil and natural gas in Austria must pay interest for it, and this is what this request is all about. In Austria we have an annual production of 900 000 tonnes of oil, of 1.8 billion cubic meters of natural gas. The production value of these raw materials has increased from €600 million in the last seven years to € 1 billion, due to the higher world market prices. That means who now uses these raw materials in Austria deserves better with it. We believe that the state should benefit more than before from these revenues and increase the interest rate and that the money that is earned in our country should be used to increase the benefits of renewable energy. I am already on the second subject, which is very busy and also very concerned, namely the question of the promotion of shale gas in Lower Austria, the so-called fracking. In principle, I understand that someone says: If all this is environmentally friendly about the stage, why not reduce our dependence on other countries, on Sheikhs and oligarchs and use what we have here in Austria? – However, I have not yet met a method that would make it really possible to promote these shale gas supplies gently. We also know from experience from other countries that earthquakes can also occur. That's what we've experienced in the UK. There have been some very interesting reports about the fact that the companies also had to admit, that these earthquakes have been triggered by fracking. And in France, a country which, when it comes to environmental issues, is not necessarily narrow, we also have a ban on this type of promotion of natural gas. I would therefore think that we must be very careful here, and that in the end, when it comes to using these occurrences in any way, the people in the region in particular must be asked whether they want to do so at all. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It will not be us Burgenländer, it will not be the friends in Salzburg and in Carinthia and Upper Austria, but it will be the people in Lower Austria who will be affected massively and negatively if these stocks are lifted by conventional methods. I believe that this is a decision that, in the end, must also be taken by people in this region in particular. Ladies and gentlemen, in conclusion I would like to ask you to include in your considerations whether we are raising this interest rate. I think it would be appropriate. Remember – I say it again – the production value has increased from € 600 million to € 1 billion, i.e. € 400 million more profit for the companies that promote. But revenue from the interest rate has only increased by € 85 million. If you look at developments in energy prices, you will soon find that these revenue from support in Austria will increase much more in the next few years. We believe that the State should also benefit from this and the taxpayer.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e26722	Next speaker: Mr Katzian. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e26744	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! It has already been pointed out that Austria also has oil and gas supplies. I believe that if someone reduces oil and gas supplies in Austria, the Republic should also benefit accordingly. This is currently happening in several ways. Firstly, because, of course, the OMV pays dividends as a company, which is at least part of the Republic of Austria. It is also seen that it is not only a bad thing if the public authorities hold participations in businesses. On the other hand, it is through the interest paid by Mr Hofer. We can probably now and then in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, which is an appropriate amount for this interest rate. But I think we have found a solution with an eye-catching in the context of the budget accompanying law in 2011. From my point of view, it does not make much sense to start a new discussion every year or every six months. The reduction of natural gas and oil is a capital intensive project, and it also needs a relatively secure investment environment for companies doing so. In my opinion, a permanent discussion on the interest rate does not contribute to this. It is also necessary to say that raw materials can be mined in different places around the world. I would therefore like to have framework conditions which ensure that what is possible in Austria is also mined in Austria and not elsewhere and that the jobs available here are also used accordingly. With regard to the issue of the use of funds – and this is also mentioned in your request – one should also point to the already existing funding for environmental support in the country. In this context, wood heating is already being promoted for businesses as well as for private use. Finally, I would like to say: We discussed the gas price in detail this morning. I am not sure whether the price reduction of oil will actually be a major contribution to the price reduction in petrol. I am already looking forward to the discussion in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e26792	Next speaker: Mr Haubner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e26813	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I also think that we in the Committee will still have detailed time to devote ourselves to this issue. But I am already with Mr Katzian, because I also think it does not make much sense for us to deal with this issue of increasing the interest rate in Parliament every six months, because, as I said, we have already raised this interest rate by an average of 25 percent in 2011. If you compare this interest rate with that of the European countries which have significant domestic support, such as Denmark, Hungary, Italy and so on, you can see that Austria already has the highest interest rate next to Hungary. So I think we should also leave the church in the village in the European Connex. I also believe that an increase in the cost of promoting conditions and thus a declining domestic application would increase import dependence even more. In particular, incentives must be created to promote the independence of energy imports and not to affect the production of raw materials of their own. This is also the case with regard to the discussion that has already been held in the early days. But it is still time for us to discuss this in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e26841	Next speaker: Mr Oellinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e26862	You don't think so, but Mr Katzian managed to shock me at a later hour with his speech. It's really violent. We are not allowed to do anything at all, because if we were to increase the interest rate, then the company that is depleting the oil might flee abroad – hopefully without our oil! – This is really a fairy tale you're telling! That any oil promotion company would refrain from exploiting stocks in Austria, as long as it is possible, you can tell anyone, the jettitant, but certainly not here. That's really on the back. That's not an argument, it's really fairy tales. - Point one. Point two: That, as it were, we already benefit from the OMV, by receiving a small piece of money from the dividend, I would have expected this – let us say once – rather from Mr Haubner as an argument, but not necessarily from a trade unionist. So I think that's a bit slanty. And thirdly, that perhaps an increase in the interest rate could also increase the fuel price: Yes, everything is possible! But we know how the fuel price and its increases are achieved, namely certainly not by the fact that Austria pays better the modest share of the funding stocks! There are more explorations of the OMC in other countries, which are very cost-intensive, on this account. - That's what I'm saying. You can only say to the request yourself: Yes, absolutely! There are also requests from the liberals who make absolutely sense.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e26901	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Widmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e26923	Madam President. High house! It's really weird: Today we heard from the Minister of Economic Affairs that there is no way to increase the dividend at the OMV. One cannot intervene in a stock company, even if we still hold a very large percentage. Now one hears that one cannot increase the interest rate, because that would also be harmful. In fact, the FPÖ's request is only aimed at the fact that, in the face of huge surplus profits, the state will cut a little bit and not get the corporations everything to make reserves and then perhaps to build some farms and re-branch abroad. That's really weird, and I can only say: With this old black-red coalition, nothing goes at all! There's nothing going on. You're not open to new things, and you don't think, dear friends of the ÖVP and also of the SPÖ. You just have to say that. Then: There's nothing going on with the dividends, and there's nothing going on when you cut fat profits. What's going on with you guys? So pack your climate protection concepts, pack your concepts for renewable energy, pack the concepts for public transport, because you don't know how to finance them! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] We from BZÖ, but also the Greens and the FPÖ have shown you what is feasible, what is possible. But for that you are apparently not to have. Energy is an important topic for the future. We discussed this today in the current hour. We discussed it at the urgent request of the BZÖ at the spray price. [[Abg. Grill: How do we finance it?]] . I have just said, Mr Commissioner of the ÖVP, how to finance it: that is, with the fat profits that oil and gas companies enter! Let's cut it a little. This is a very simple bill: More profits by €600 million per year, for example, we take out €200 million, and this is what we are putting into the promotion of renewable energy. Is that feasible: yes or no? [[Cheerfulness and intermediate calls at the ÖVP.]] It is inconceivable, it is inconceivable for the ÖVP economic party. You really only have the corporations in your mind and nothing else: no more the middle class, no more the households, no more the small people who are extremely suffering from the big seed prices, you have nothing left for it! [[Abg. Head: Are you communists or what?]] It's really unique! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] One more thing, my dear ones. Ladies and gentlemen: I was at the Academy of Sciences in the evening yesterday, there was an interesting talk on the topic of “Schleibergas Promotion – Methods and Risks”. By the way, as far as I have seen this, I was the only Member of this House who was there, and it was very interesting. It was an event that was also sponsored by the Ministry of Life. There were representatives of renewable energies, the IG Windkraft, the Small Hydropower, the Biomass Association, Photovoltaics, Umweltdachverband and Austria Solar. The lectures were interesting in so far as they were somewhat one-sided in the direction of disaster scenarios, which can happen when it comes to shale gas promotion, but they were also very informative, in two ways: on the one hand, in the direction that, if you are not careful, something can really happen in terms of the environment, on groundwater, on drinking water, on landscape consumption, on the noise pollution in the population, and on the other hand, that if you watch – and that happens in the meantime – there can hardly be anything happening, because the methods are quite mature. If you look at the Internet, you will notice that 30 percent of the gas in the U.S. already comes from shale gas. But I'm very skeptical about that, too, because one thing was said: Making shale gas is something short-term. One has to crush continuously, i.e. split the rock to make the gas come out over a longer period of time. That's why we're going to take a very close look at the meaning. The mayors concerned of the municipalities in Bulgaria or Texas were here and have already put very hard facts on the table, which show that old procedures certainly lead to disadvantages. But we from the BZÖ are not on the side of the fundamentalists and say: No, nothing's going on at all! The ÖVP is now fundamentalist and says: No, nothing's going on at all! We are not, however, on the side of the fundamentalists who do not wish to allow new procedures under scientific supervision and implementing EIA, which we demand. And we are certainly not on the side of large corporations, who only want to catch up with people, and then the ÖVP and the SPÖ say: There's nothing we can do, let them get out of here, because all our party friends are well accommodated, and they also need a little more beautiful outings! We certainly do not play with the BZÖ, ladies and gentlemen. We say: The commitment to use and the increase in the interest rate is correct, it makes sense. I hope that we will make a common request in this regard. In the final analysis, it is not about the current security of gas supply, but rather about establishing strategic reserves in the energy strategy in the sense of an overall concept, even for times of crisis for Austria, where we know that we can use them in case of need. But it is also a matter of limiting the current profits and not leaving everything to the corporations, and of putting it on renewable energy, but also on energy efficiency technology, and of developing it in a massive way. You know where to get the money. That is why I invite you to discuss this intensively with us. At the end of the day, I'm just saying one more thing: If the earth is already bleeding in Austria because we are getting out gas because we are extracting oil, then we should at least use the money gained by it, if already the result of it is a damaged earth, for renewable energy and for the future of Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e27009	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. I give the motion for a resolution 1779/A to the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. [[22:54:19]] 20. Point Report of the Immunities Committee on the request of the Public Prosecutor's Office in Vienna (196 BAZ 1131/11x) for approval of the official persecution of the MP to the National Council of Mag. Dr. Wolfgang Zinggl(1674 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e27051	We reach the 20th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. We are going into the debate. The first speaker is Mr Pendl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e27081	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! However, I am glad that we have brought together a unanimous decision in the Immunities Committee, and I do not accept any lines of argument that have been argued in the Committee, you would urgently invite: We have been trying for two and a half years now to establish a new right of immunity. We're almost done. We have spared ourselves from these discussions, which we always have to lead to, because this is in the nature of the matter if we come to a new right of immunity. Maybe it's successful. I'm an optimist. I can invite you all to do so. Perhaps we can also change the little bit on which it is still hanging. Then we always spare ourselves these – “unnecessary” must not be said – laborious assessments and discussions. We all agree in the main lines. Maybe we'll really do it, and then we'll all have it easier. I would like to invite you to do this.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e27121	Next speaker: Mr Grossruck. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e27142	Madam President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr. Pendl, I'll give you a hand. I think we're waiting to get something together, but I don't think we're gonna bring the miracle together. If we see the proposal, we will continue to have an immunity committee and will continue to have cases of immunity. I don't know if the specific case would have been excluded from a new, coming immunity law, but I don't think so. [[Abg. Grosz: He wouldn't be!]] Today, it is simply about the fact that a request from the Public Prosecutor's Office for approval of the official persecution of the Deputies to the National Council Wolfgang Zinggl is at the table. Mr Zinggl is accused by the Vienna Public Prosecutor's Office of unlawful access to a computer system, violation of the telecommunications secret, misuse of data, abuse of computer programs or access data. In our opinion – and this was the unanimous opinion of the Immunities Committee – it is clear that there is nothing to do with professional immunity or there is no connection with political activity. It was therefore necessary to decide within the meaning of the Immunities Act, and it was also unanimous that the application of the Public Prosecutor's Office should be accepted for the extradition of Mr Zinggl. This is also to be decided today. - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e27177	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Hübner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e27198	Madam President. Mr Großruck! That's all right: We agreed, it was unanimous. However, the decision we have made is not quite correct. We just didn't make any more difficulties. This is a case where the political context is likely to have already existed, directly. If you pay attention to the overall context, the honourable Member has done research to detect irregularities or scandals, and the honourable Member has also passed on these materials to the media and has thereby also come to the attention of the public prosecutor. This would have a political context. Nevertheless, the persecution would have been allowed, for regardless of what really happened: If someone obtains information by entering foreign computer programs, we do not want this process protected by the immunity law. That is why we will also agree here, although I would point to the overall problem and point out that there would be a political link here and that the decision should therefore be a little different. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e27240	Mr Brosz is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e27262	Madam President. It is probably necessary to say a few things about it. What's this about in the Causa? Mr Zinggl, undisputed and probably followed by many, has done a lot of work in the field of culture. Now one can be of different opinion whether this is important, valuable, whether it has affected the right things. The fact is that it has also led to consequences, especially in the Kunsthalle, where the accusation that the head of the Kunsthalle has used the Kunsthalle for private purposes. This conflict results in something – as is often the case when the work is done, namely that Members get more information. In this case, Mr Zinggl has played a data stick. He opened this data stick on his own computer, there was a hyperlink, so to speak, a connection, and the feedback also made it clear that he got the data – so far, so undisputed. The point in history is: If that had been announced by the prosecutor's office, we would have another decision today, namely a decision on non-delivery. The question of data usage is clearly clear, information work – including data that have been played – is a task of Members of this House. If you look at the last committees, which are likely to be confirmed by the Committee of Inquiry, it is a task of Members to show maladministration. The point in this story is particularly exciting: Art Hall Chief Matt made a statement of the facts. In this case, it seems that it has been demonstrated when these data have been extracted from the computer of the art hall, it was, I think, an Easter Sunday when I have this right in memory. It was found that anyone – someone unknown in the case-law – had access to this data by unknown perpetrators. This also seems to be relatively coherent and comprehensible. In the case-law of the Kunsthalle or of Mr Matt, there was no word that Mr Zinggl as a Member would have allowed himself to enter. Then came an extraditional desire of the prosecutor's office, which says that it was a suspicion that the MP – and it must be given – would have been unlawfully invaded into the rooms of the art hall, so it would have been almost broken in or otherwise come in. He would have marched to the computer and personally inserted the data stick – we have already shredded over the comprehensive computer knowledge of his colleague Zinggl, how he plugs down the computer system within 5 minutes, but this is another chapter. Then he would have gone home again and got the data. [[Call the ÖVP: We trust him!]] This without any presumption, even expressed in the case-law. If we take this apart, it will be relatively simple, because at that time Mr Zinggl was at a big family celebration. So if you ask him where he was, you'll be able to explain within three minutes that he couldn't have been there at that time. In this respect, the case may not be so dramatic at all and will probably be stopped relatively soon. I would just like to draw your attention to one thing: When school does, in the future everyone, who is being played about the information that is then made public by a politician, goes here and says: Wait, there's a politician who opens up things about me. [[Abg. Scheibner: You live by such stories!]] There are two variants: either the one that has invaded me, the data itself has been collected from me, the information has approached, or – this is the second variant, we had already, I remember the question of the laptop – I do not know why you are yelling so, the Stadler was different in the question of the laptop of Pilz, for example. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Navigation you never do!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: You live on such stories with other parties!]] [[Interlocutory calls from Deputies Ing. Westenthaler and Scheibner.]] On the laptop of my colleague Pilz with the confiscation it was different, because they said: The fungus has the data, so he's probably inflamed someone. [[New calls to the BZÖ.]] – The BZÖ screams wonderfully in between, one should only imagine it. If that is the case that everyone who is revealed says that either the data was stolen or there was an instigation, then in the future, in any case political Enlightenment will have such an approach of the prosecutor's office and ultimately a circumvention of the right of immunity. That's what I wanted to draw attention to. We too will agree. If the accusation is there that someone was invaded and that would be so – we do not judge content, but we judge the record – then this will also be clarified. It is only the procedure of the Public Prosecutor's Office that we will certainly try to clarify it with a parliamentary request to the Ministry of Justice. There have also been several media reports that this case has been examined for months. As it happens, without the fact that this is contained in the case-law, the accusation comes into the premise that a Member of Parliament has been invaded there – there is also inside, there are no video recordings, there are no witnesses, but it is simply the suspicion – something is... – Yes, this is now a “classical” wheeler statement, which we have known for a long time. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] What the public prosecutor is doing and what is covered by the Ministry of Justice is absolutely to be questioned from my point of view and in the sense of Parliament's Enlightenment.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e27353	Mr Grosz has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e27374	For political insiders: If a Member of the last bank of the Free or BZÖ is handed over, then this will be accompanied all day by a teletext page – that can only affect the offence of evil renunciation –, there are newspaper reports refund and at least three APA reports. But today we experience something else – Mr Zinggl – no APA message, no ORF ON page. There is little talk about extradition, everything is down, but we have a very sad speech by the Greens. You know, Mr Brosz, immunity does not protect above all and the purpose does not sanctify the means. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] In the exercise of my office of Deputies, as a control body, I must not need anyone, nor extortion anyone to come to my information. Even if there is a political link, I should not go down to the colleges of Members other than Faul, because this would be a criminal offence. Although perhaps the political context could be explained, ladies and gentlemen, I should not! I don't think so! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] We have the same case: We have a political connection – a MP is suspected of having broken into the computer of another person under all the laws and actions of serious offences and of having obtained illegal documents or computer data. Then the Greens say: Yes, this is the original mandate of a Green Member, the circumvention of civil rights. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Such a fool!]] Today, we are discussing data protection about ACTA, citizens' rights. So if a green Member of the third party's data is authorised to do so in order to avoid data protection and civil rights, that is all political immunity. That's not supposed to be it. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Watch what you say! You didn't understand it again!]] [[Call the ÖVP:Don't be so sensitive, you do it every day!]] If a representative of the BZÖ or the FPÖ would do such a thing, then one would construct a case of small service. This has already been experienced by this House, under the leadership of the Greens. Dear Greens! Don't be so sensitive! [[Cheerfulness with BZÖ and ÖVP.]] Something has apparently happened that is not all right, and it is the task of the prosecutor's office to clarify it. It cannot and must not be that Members in their parliamentary work resort to illegal methods to obtain possible information. It doesn't work! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The whole discussion, whether there is a political context or no political context, would be resolved once and for all if one finally followed the BZE requirement to completely eliminate immunity. Let us not raise ourselves up over the population! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The Zinggl case – Mr Pendl, Mr Großruck, said it rightly – would never have been included even after the current state of the reform, because the political context is more obvious. However, Parliament must not, however, protect possible perpetrators if they have committed a crime in the course of their political activities. We would have no possibility of doing so even after a reform of this immunity, which would otherwise have failed. Therefore, once again: Let us remove them, and I say that Mr Zinggl's extradition is more than justifiable.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e27493	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: What do we do with the pre-punishment?]] [[Abg. Grosz: At least once!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: What do we do with the stupid ones?]] [[Further calls from Deputies Dr. Jarolim and Ing. Westenthaler.]] – Mr Dr. Jarolim, please! No final word on the part of the reporting is desired. We shall come to the vote. I would like to draw attention to the fact that we now have this vote and then we have one more vote. I would ask that these two voting procedures be dealt with rather quietly. We come to the vote on the request of the Committee on Immunities in 1674 to decide on the following: “In consideration of the request of the Public Prosecutor’s Office in Vienna, GZ. 196 BAZ 1131/11x, for approval of the official persecution of the MP to the National Council Dr. Wolfgang Zinggl becomes in accordance with Art. 57 para. 3 B-VG notes that there is no link between the incriminated action and the political activity of the MP to the National Council." I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give this request a sign. – This is unanimously accepted. The agenda is exhausted. [[23:08:20]] Vote on request for a deadline
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e27567	We shall now proceed to the vote on the request by Mr Josef Bucher, colleagues, to the Constitutional Committee for Reporting on the motion for a resolution 1826/A(E) by Mr Josef Bucher, colleagues on the reform of the Party Law to prevent corruption and abuse of power. ==References== I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to a sign. – This is the minority. This request is therefore rejected. [[23:10:15]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2012-02-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e27604	I am still announcing that in today's session the self-employed applications were submitted 1839/A(E) to 1863/A(E). Questions 10762/J to 10896/J were also raised. The next meeting of the National Council, which will concern business communications and allocations, is scheduled for 23.11 a.m. – that is immediately after this meeting. This meeting is closed.
