ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e5969	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen! I can ask you to take your seats and open the 181. Meeting of the National Council. As prevented, Mr Maij-Weghout has been reported. [[09:06:02]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e6000	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e6064	The meeting will be transferred to ORF 2 to 11.50 and to ORF III in full length. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e6082	It is proposed that the debate on points 1 and 2 of the agenda be summarized. On the other hand, is there an objection? - That's not the case. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e6106	Ladies and gentlemen, I will now present you with a very comprehensive statement as a proposal, so I should like to draw your attention. Between the members of the Presidential Conference a day-blocking period of 9 “Vienna hours” was agreed on both for today’s day and for budgetary consultations on Thursday and Friday. In accordance with the provisional key on the proposal of four political groups for the redistribution of the speaking time within a “Vienna hour”, 9 “Vienna hours” are given the following speaking times: SPÖ and ÖVP each 131, FPÖ 113, Green 95, BZÖ 86 and STRONACH 68 minutes. I would also suggest that the honourable Member's speaking time be limited to 10 minutes each, without being part of each subject area. For today's day, the following Rules of Procedure were agreed for the duration of the TV broadcast to ORF 2 to 11.50: a round of 10 minutes each – order: FPÖ, SPÖ, Greens, ÖVP, BZÖ, STRONACH – then two rounds with 6 minutes each, the call of the speakers takes place according to political strength. After the first round of the political groups, the Federal Chancellor and after the second round of the political groups, the Federal Minister for Finance, spoke with 12 minutes each. Actual corrections will only be made to ORF 2 after the end of the television period. The debate will continue after the end of the third round in accordance with the principle of counter/pro. In accordance with the procedure agreed at the Presidential Conference, the deliberations on the Federal Law amending the Federal Financial Framework Act 2013 to 2016 are divided into the following: Today: Headings 0 and 1: Subdivisions 01 to 06 and 10, subsequent breakdowns 13, 12, 11 and 14; on Thursday: Heading 2: Subdivisions 20 to 22, subsequent subdivision 24; Heading 3 thereafter. breakdowns 30 and 31; on Friday: Heading 4: subheadings 34 and 41, subsequent breakdowns 25, 33 and 40, then 42 and 43; Heading 5: Headings 15, 16, 23, 44, 45, 46, 51 and 58 and text of the Federal Finance Act and other parts of Appendix I, including Appendices II to IV; then: Decision-making of the Federal Act amending the Federal Financial Framework Act 2013 to 2016 In the final analysis, the following Final votes Federal Finance Act 2013 together with investments. General – actually included in the general debate – can be made in the treatment of heading 0 and 1, subheadings 01 to 06: Supreme Institutions, and subdivision 10: Federal Chancellery. This is also a written statement to the honourable Member. In any event, the proposed headings will be discussed at the end of the day. The session will then be suspended. Resolutions may be submitted in the case of the respective breakdowns. Following the conclusion of the joint debate, the decision-making of the Federal Law amending the Federal Financial Framework Act 2013 to 2016 will be taken at second and third reading and the vote on any relevant motions for resolutions. Following this, the second reading and the third reading on the Federal Finance Act 2013 will be held. After that, the votes on the resolutions submitted to the Federal Finance Act 2013 together with the amendments shall be taken in the order in which they are filed. The time-limit for the members of the government according to § 57 para. 8 of the Rules of Procedure shall not be used, but, if the 20 minutes exceed for each member of the government responsible for the respective advisory groups, or if the 10 minutes exceed, for each State Secretary responsible for the respective advisory groups, the overdue time shall be counted on the speaking time of the respective government group. The speaking time of non-governmental government members or state secretaries shall at least be counted on the time of the respective government group. With the exception of this, the term of office of the Federal Chancellor and the Vice-Cancellor shall be used for the general debate held under heading 0 and 1, provided that the debate does not exceed the duration of 20 minutes. The National Council now has to vote on these proposals. I should like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to the proposals for a corresponding sign. – This is unanimously accepted. [[09:12:46]] 1. Point Report of the Budget Committee on the Government Template (1959, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law amending the Federal Financial Framework Act 2013 to 2016 (1998 d.b.) 2. Point Report of the Budget Committee on the Government Template (1910, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law on the Approval of the Federal Estimate for the Year 2013 (Federal Finance Act 2013 – BFG 2013) and Investments (1999 d.B.)
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e6279	We shall now go into the agenda and come to the joint debate on points 1 and 2 of the agenda. There was no oral reporting. [[09:12:55]] Heading 0.1 (Law and security) [[09:12:56]] UG 01: Presidential Chancellery UG 02: Federal legislation UG 03: Constitutional Court UG 04: Administrative Court UG 05: Public Prosecutor's Office UG 06: Court of Auditors UG 10: Federal Chancellery
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e6352	In accordance with the agreed breakdown, we reach the consultation of heading 0. 1. Mr Klubobmann was the first to speak with a speaking time of 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e6377	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I should also like to welcome Mr Moser to the gallery. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen here in the High House and in front of the TV screens! This week we decide on the last budget in this legislative period, and I can only express my deep hope that it will also be the last budget of this red and black federal government for a long time, because, Mrs Finanzminister, nothing against you personally, nothing against the governments on the government bank personally, including your predecessors as finance ministers – whether the Minister of Finance was Molterer, whether Mr Josef Pröll was – but we all ultimately suffered massively from the past budgets. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] All the budgets were also marked by a lack of courage, and today we are experiencing a situation in which we have to experience and suffer record-to-record rates in Austria, but at the same time the debt of God increases more strongly – even though perhaps some colleague or comrade cannot expect it and is therefore drawing attention to false calls for action. [[Interoperability call at the SPÖ]] But these are the facts we have to do with. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This is also reflected in this budget. The most significant influence on gross domestic product, private consumption, is faced with additional burdens. The Austrians are confronted with suboptimal security guarantees from the police because we have too few officials there. We have a judicial area, where procedures take a very long time, and when decisions are made, the Austrians have to experience that sexual offenders are still rewarded with foot chains. So these are wrong developments in which citizens are right to get their heads. There are huge revenue losses in favour of banks and corporations in the area of financial management. In doing so, analyses are important, quite clearly from banks from neighbouring countries such as the Swiss bank UBS, which has made an analysis, Austria once assessed and compared over the past years, how Austria's income trends can be assessed and how ultimately the following real available incomes of the Austrians can be assessed, namely that after deduction of taxes, after deduction of taxes and inflation from 2000 to today, real wages and income fell by 35 percent in Austria. This has been noted by the Swiss bank UBS and all these negative effects on consumption have also been identified. [[Abg. Head: This is a voodoo study!]] Then Mr. Kopf says that this is Voodoo, what the Swiss bank UBS is doing, that the so-called economic experts of the ÖVP, who have nothing to do with the economy at all, stand out here. [[ongoing applause with the FPÖ]] – They are responsible for this development and the highest government debt in the Second Republic with the highest tax rate, where we are 43 to 44 percent next year. And then the Lord comes out boldly – I can see him before my spiritual eye – and explains how ÖVP's economic competence has looked at Austria in recent decades. And then we look at this really and then we have to be horrified because you no longer live and have economic competence, my dear ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP – and then you talk about Voodoo-Zauber. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You have now had 20 years and more time to finally bring this budget and this government debt and this negative development into line, and have clearly failed one year after the other with your budgets. I understand why today more and more citizens, who you have chosen in the past, are turning their backs on these two parties of red and black, because they finally recognize: These parties are responsible for the state we are in today. Then the government goes, and the red and black representatives go and swirl with the axles, saying: Oh, that's typical again, the Freedom Party! – who calls things by name, is honest, boldly addresses things, and they are then beautifully spoken! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ.]] There is nowhere to take the problem of the Austrian population seriously. No countermeasures will be taken. And the fact is that nowhere in the eurozone – nowhere – has the real available income been as low as in Austria since 2000. I quote from the UBS study of analysts: “Austria looks alarmingly weak” in this income development. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] Yes, and this also shows the increasing poverty development in Austria with 1.2 million people living at the poverty line. There you should enjoy social democracy, because with social democracy you have nothing more to do with it when it comes to supporting only bank speculators and others today! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In 2011, when I see President-in-Office of the Court of Auditors Dr. Moser, there have again been a number of further proposals from the Court of Auditors on how to finally implement red tape in line with administrative and health reform. There were 599 proposals made: a comprehensive administrative and task reform of the Austrian local authorities, proposals for sustainable discharge and renovation of public budgets, where €10 to 12 billion could be saved in the medium term if efficiency was increased. But you have no interest in a completely immutable way, because there are your party friends, whom you have finally established there and who are serving properly at the expense of the general public. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That's exactly what realities are, and that's the system that you're not willing to put in place any proposals here, because there's a complete standstill. Finally, every two years, the Court of Auditors will update its proposals. In recent years we have experienced a doubling of these proposals, and next year we will probably experience another 100, 150 proposals. [[Abg. May. Schickhofer: 68 percent implemented!]] [[call to the FPÖ.]] At some point we will have 1 000 proposals from the Court of Auditors, which you are not prepared to implement. In the end, this also shows your non-existent efficiency and work and also your non-existent zeal on this issue. If no optimizations are put on the expenditure side, then of course you have to keep thinking about how to get further into the citizen's pocket and do a good job on the Austrian citizen with new tax considerations, with new tax increases, as if the Austrians did not already have enough tax burden to bear. And precisely in this situation, we are: a tax burden that is being exerted by the Austrians today. And we are facing recession development, as many economists rightly warn. But nothing like that is done against you by saying, well, actually, you should go down with the tax burden, actually we should consider reducing the income tax perhaps to 25 percent and the average tax rate to 37 percent or also raising the maximum base of 60 000 € per year to 100 000 € per year gross salary and reducing the additional wage costs. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This would help to make people working more net in the pocket of money so that they can spend more on life, spend more, boost consumption, and ultimately we can boost the economy and counter this crisis. – Nothing like that is the case! You are still addressing the crisis by thinking about new taxes and new taxes. I tell you today, we will put them to the test, the two government parties. I'm already excited. We will make a request in the hope that the SPÖ will also be really willing, on the one hand, to tax workers, employees and small and medium-sized entrepreneurs at last and on the other hand to ask the real assets in the context of a solidarity-millionaire tax to make their contribution to the crisis. We will then see if you are prepared to go along with us when it comes to tax justice, for which we stand and for which we are committed, up to wage reductions. We have to look at tax developments, the tax rate only: The rate of tax in the 1980s, 1980, was on average 39.97 percent, in the 1990s this figure increased to 42.23 percent, in the 2000s the tax rate increased from 42.83 to now, next year – forecast – to over 43 percent, some even talking from 44 percent. And these are massive burdens that are required of the citizens. Nevertheless, you make more debts. We pay only over €8 billion annually at interest rates, and we can only be glad that the interest rates up to date are so low. Imagine, the interest rates are doubling! Then we will eventually pay 16 billion euros and more interest. These are developments where, in fact, everyone who has responsibility needs to say seriously, there must now be reversed. But you're not ready for that. They are not ready to finally think of a subsidy brake. We are European champions of subsidies in Austria. 6.5 percent of the gross domestic product is distributed today in subsidies. The European Union comparison is 3%. These are incredible sums, billions, which are ultimately not efficiently distributed in the area of subsidies, where we have opportunities to change a lot. And I say it will be a lot, a lot necessary. However, it cannot be found in this budget. I come to the conclusion: The budget does not limit inflation, it does not boost purchasing power, it does not reduce public debt, quite the contrary, even the recession before us is not countered. That is, this budget is a failure at all levels. You can't call it otherwise.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e6508	Mr Klubobmann Dr. Cap is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e6529	Madam President. High house! The ritual disease of the opposition is nothing new. [[Abg. New builder: But not the healthy one!]] What we really need to deal with is: What is the findings in Austria and what is the picture that is presented? And what still concerns me today is the following: I was recently at a discussion on television and I told you that in an American magazine that reported under the title “The Austrian Miracle”, the question was asked, which is actually the secret of the fact that it works so well in Austria in contrast to other countries. [[Abg. Bucher: How old is the article?]] This was justified by the fact that the developed welfare state gives security to the Austrians and thus also consume them in the crisis that in Austria it was countered in good time to invest in the labour market, that social society is a stable, also anti-crisis tool, that works and that the health system is one of the best. When I said that, I was interrupted three times by the journalist. [[Abg. Strache: This is the Ostermayer study!]] [[Cheerfulness at the FPÖ.]] When I say this at the speaker's desk, I'm going to be interrupted by you. My question is: Why do you want? You don't actually hear the good news, why not? [[Abg. Strache: The Austrians dance cheer dances on the streets!]] [[Abg. Bucher: How old is your speech? Lower drawer again!]] Bad news is good news, is a principle in journalism. But I don't think that's really helpful. Now I'm saying something: With the re-election of Obama in America, Keynes was actually elected again. In the comments, the journalists have said that over and over again. [[Abg. Bucher: Is that the bottom drawer again?]] The austerity policy, which can also be interpreted from the words of Klubobmann Strache, can lead to recession by means of broken savings, while caputt- saving also means that jobs are at risk. – That was never the Austrian recipe. In Austria, we have a 0.5 percent higher growth per year on average than the EU average. This is bigger than that of many other countries, such as Switzerland and Germany. Therefore, there must be something positive. If you compare numbers in terms of employment, unemployment, prosperity and quality of life with those of other countries and write to foreign newspapers that this is not so bad at all, then I already know that this is bad for the opposition, because it needs some point of approach to practice criticism there. But the question is: Why is that so? A study was prepared by Statistics Austria, which asked how Austria was doing. Eight out of ten Austrians, according to this study, have said that they are satisfied with their immediate situation in life – eight out of ten Austrians! And in fact, only every 50. The respondents reported dissatisfaction. If one looked at the suburbs of Rome, Frankfurt, Berlin, Paris or elsewhere, not the tourist mile where the sandwich costs €10, but those places where the actual life is happening, and draw a comparison with Austria, then one would probably appreciate the situation differently again. And that is, I think, something to consider. Now, for example, Fitch said: Triple A, highest credit for Austria. – Other countries only dream of that. I do not know a single member of the opposition who would get out of here and say, well, with all the criticism, but now I also want to say something positive. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Kogler.]] Sick-jammering, ritual sick-jammering, that's what the three opposition parties are developing here and unfortunately transporting some journalist, whereby I have to say, of course, it is the task of journalism to show abuse and to practice criticism, we don't need to talk about it at all. But just show everything in black/white tones? Where is the differentiated view? I think it is quite right that this should also be done in this context. If you take a closer look at the writings from abroad, the comments, the statements of the economists, then you will notice that this is also true of our system. Delegations now come to Austria and look at how we actually do it, that we have such a low youth unemployment rate, the dual system, the apprentices, first the training, then the practice that they are kept in operation as possible, crisis phenomena so that jobs are secured, short work. [[Abg. Street: 20-year-old early pensioner!]] It will be invested in the labour market. We therefore have the best employment rates and the lowest unemployment rate. In France, youth unemployment is 25%. That is, crime, that is, insecurity, that is social conflict, that is, demonstrations. If there are conflicts with us, employers and workers will sit together and try to solve this by consensus in such a way that social costs are as low as possible. You can say quite often, well, there could have been more inside from a particular side of interest, no question. But this is a system advantage that we have, which is being recognized abroad, from where many delegations come to Austria, with the Federal Chancellor being asked why it actually works so well. He then just gives information that it works so well. [[Call: He doesn't know why]] They have also listened to us, both as regards the model Austria, and that we have said that we must try to cope with the consequences of the crisis. That is, I think, also successful. The financial transaction tax will now be introduced at European level at the initiative of the Federal Chancellor. Many other measures are also being put in place, in which the super-rich are also invited to cash. Why? – Austria has a functioning structure of small, medium-sized enterprises, a large real economy with employees, with real struggles for these companies to function. These are not speculators, not small, medium-sized or other speculators, but are farms of great importance for economic development. And everything is being done so that it continues, because employment also creates money in the pockets of citizens. They buy them that consume. If they feel safe, that happens even more. How do you feel secure? – You feel safe, for example, because of the payment system at pensions. One can rely on it, however, not on the pension fund speculators in America, who all fail to look at it, after the crisis has caused the pension to become unsafe. There it usually ends with homelessness and impoverishment. You can read it in the “spiegel”, in various other gazettes, which occurs in America in terms of poverty. Now, during the Obama campaign, people have seen how people live in individual states, in residential weights, in tents, or they have no accommodation at all. We have a social system where it is picked up, but at the same time it is also a productive factor so that the economy can develop further. It is actually irresponsible to constantly talk this down and cry down, because it also makes the achievements of the Austrians mad. For they are the ones who are diligent, who work, who save and ensure that their children, their grandchildren also have a perspective. I also refer to the school system, with all the criticism you can make. We can also think about innovations in every area, indisputably, that is why we are fighting for the whole day school. Another milestone, the New Middle School – something that is also exemplary, which other countries are now looking at. Granted, Finland is a great model. However, I say that is something that ensures that competitiveness, location security, the perspective on the labour market is guaranteed. These are loud things that affect people and life-skills. And you can't just go over there and pretend that this isn't important. This must be taken into account in these discussions, because the real economy is of the utmost importance, because it is of course the engine of the whole, and especially the small and medium-sized enterprises and businesses in Austria play a very important role as well. Further emphasis has now been placed on the government clause in Laxenburg. Dozens of points have been made. 110 million € the government is pumping into the promotion of young entrepreneurs, employment, GmbH. I could list the whole list, you know it anyway. If you make yourself up now and say that's all nothing, then I have to resist it, all of that, if you look closely at it, right answers to questions that need to be answered now. The environment: exemplary. We have one of the largest organic crops, we are among the largest bio-consumers. In Austria there are well-kept landscapes, a developed tourism. - That's nothing! Why not take a positive view of this and see it in the context of employment and growth? And I have to tell you honestly that this is proof that it is important here not to make an austerity policy, but a policy that further strengthens and supports this development. As regards the data previously mentioned by Klubobmann Strache: The UBS study is a embarrassing. This is a Swiss bank that prefers to see that it survives well itself. The National Bank has found that there is an increase of 12 percent in real wage development. Granted, there's a group where there's no such plus, that's what we're in here. That's just by the way, if you want to discuss this with me. But that is a fact, and this fact must also be taken into account in this context. There is still so much to be said, unfortunately I do not have the time, for example energy consumption, two thirds of renewable energy, no nuclear power plant, there can also come and look at others. - That's nothing! – You can smile, but I think you should remove the positive. [[Abg. Bookbooker: Superpower!]] If there is such a thing as a national self-confidence of us Austrians, then one should also confess to the positive.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e6685	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Kogler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e6706	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Yes, not only is it all bad, but it is also a lot good to very good in the Republic of Austria, also in terms of social and economic data. Whether this is always because we find such a successful government policy, or for other reasons, it has been put down. But it's right, it's not all bad for a long time. By the way, we see only the problem we are developing on each other's side, I say that regularly, most of the time exactly when we start economic debates. However, this leads to the fact that honourable Member Cap obviously believes that I am no longer in opposition. It is obviously a problem to note that there is also a constructive opposition. I note this at this point. But we will still stay on this path. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] There's still something positive. The Federal Minister was once again in negotiations with the European Union and also with the 17 Euro-States; this is usually not my opinion. This is a considerable effort, and there is also something done. I say this once again because we are experiencing the debate these days again that there are – especially those in the back, but also all of us – anyway, I know what I am. And I say, Either we are self-confident now and say that what we are doing is exactly that and that, with all the difference, we are elected that we are not all saying and representing the same thing. That is precisely what is important in democracy. And whoever believes it is without representative democracy, tomorrow he should say it and propose it. But if it is the other way round, then there is a certain degree of respect for it, and thus also for the representatives here on the government bank and you – despite all the struggles. We should say this ourselves more often, because how the debates in some Boulevard papers are developing again in recent days, which is just a reverse. In reality, we have at least such a media problem as a problem of representative democracy. I'm just saying that again at this point. [[General condolences.]] On the real topic. This budget has not done much, and this has been caused by the fact that the four-year financial framework – and that is probably very good, we have invested a lot in this budgetary reform – has taken decisions. And now, Mr Cap has already pre-existed, we can give a few fundamental considerations. Green financial and budgetary policy pursues exactly three principles and objectives. This really makes sense at first. That is true, expenditure must always be efficiently managed and designed – but even more in the future. It is also about the tax system. I never understand why we never or very rarely, this time very scarcely, look at the tax revenue and it is always such a discussion. This is also because the government groups in this area cannot agree at all. But I might go into that if the time stays. At any rate, a fair tax system is an integral part of these budget debates, depending on Fasson's ideological origin. That's what we're supposed to do in the future. Thirdly, Above all, it is a question of what resources are used for, i.e. where investment is to be made, of course, according to our considerations. So economy, efficiency and justice, these are principles that can very well be brought together, and that has something innovative. And I appreciate that our group has a lot to do here. But now we have to talk about the negative things when we have to talk about responsible handling of tax money and also about what it is spent on. We have had to correct the budget figures up last year, and this year and next year it also looks worse than it could look, for various reasons, but for one particular reason: the problem banks, the banking problem. But they're not all, I'd like to say that. Of course, we also have a lot of losses in the efficiency in the health system, in the school administration, as well as economic promotion is still completely opaque. We have a problem, so to speak – and this is noted in advance here – in the leadership of the Republic of Austria. At last, the skills need to be adjusted. I admit, it is a good thing, the health systems in Austria are good, but we could generate the same performance with much less effort. And we have a problem similar to that in the school administration, that this prevention folklore is costing billions, mainly by black national leaders and simply because of this resistance to reform. [[Abg. Bucher: Federalis-must!]] I'll just point it out to you at this point. It's got to be broken. We've already turned in many small places. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] In your budgetary policy, the federal government has come a long way, but where we have the real problem in the Republic, this is totally inconspicuous and non-comprehensible distribution of competence that costs just billions. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Großruck]] Either someone dares to do this or not. We have often pointed out that we should go into the debate here with two-thirds votes. But it was exactly the other way round. Finally, Mr. Vice-Chancellor – is he here?, no! – but Mrs. Federal Minister, her predecessor as Minister of Finance has failed to do so. [[towards Federal Minister Dr. Fekter]] Whether this was just a family problem or not, I don't know, I don't want to judge that. Just, I'm holding it with Bernd Schilcher, one of the few thinkers of the ÖVP. What did he say about your school policy? – It does not look so bad, across all the political groups here in Parliament, but at the end one comes from St. Pölten and does everything. – One from St. Pölten comes and does everything. That describes as well as it could not be, and there you should do something. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] By the way, that's an ÖVP quote. These are the problems. But back to the banks. That's also a trouble. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] It turns out, Mr President of the Court of Auditors, that we do not stick to the one, two-billion story that we have spent here in 2010 – as long as the report has been here – together. If we anticipate the year 2013, and we're talking about it right now, then we'll find that the net gap is €6 billion, net. There are the contributions, the liability fees, the interest rates of Raiffeisen – I say it positively in this sense that you are not getting upset again – already taken into account by the First Bank. 6 billion! Do you know what you could do with the money? – A lot! Getting Now They say: What else should we have done? - I'll tell you. That's a million kindergartens if you want to. You don't need that much at all, but we could do this for twelve, 13 years – which is objectively available – to clean up and repair the children's playground need. [[Interlocutory call to the ÖVP]] We could do that! – But doesn’t pass because the money is simmering elsewhere. Therefore, the question arises very well whether it was useful and necessary, without any examination of the alternatives, to emergency the hypo in this form, the municipal credit in this form, and at Volksbanken AG we will have a lot of joy at all if we now discover what has happened. Therefore, at least for the future it should be expected that there will be something better. But what do we read in the Laxenburg papers? The creditor's participation – probably at the end – is very, very difficult here. I would recommend that you stop driving to Laxenburg on Klaus, because the whole thing is rather lax, what you're presenting. [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter: The creditors are also for the savers!]] And by the way, a photo wallpaper would have done it for what you needed in the background. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It wasn't all bad there either. We really find small and medium-sized enterprises to be quite okay, but now is the subject of responsible use of the tax money. Let me say something to you, in conclusion: The topic of anti-corruption will continue to concern us. This has a high economic and budgetary impact. If we don't get any better here, this will cost millions and billions more. You know that very well. The next issue we will look at is the Eurofighter: all we have had in the investigation committee – Vector Aerospace – all the names where you still grinned and chewed at that time. I've got some of you in mind. This inefficiency, this bribery, costs us hundreds of millions and in the sum of billions. We need to fight this even more, and since you have such resistance, we have now launched a popular desire. That's why we also have these plugs, so that everyone knows each other. [[the speaker wears a big button at the Sakko with the title: “People’s Desire Against Corruption”]] A popular desire, because you continue to deny that we have the best control standards, and that is why we will proceed in this way. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] Finally, Madam President: The best proof is indeed the current Graz election campaign, since the rules of transparency are totally piqued. No one knows where the mayor came from. [[Abg. May. Schönegger: That's not true!]] He doesn't open it either. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign again.]] That's not how it will go, and we won't let you go through it either. This is the next approach to inefficiency and not to economical handling if we do not look at it. And we're gonna look, I can only tell you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e6846	Mr President, I think I have approved at least 15 sentences on speaking time. [[I would like to congratulate the Greens for the Abg, which leaves the speaker's desk. May. Kogler.]] Mr Klubobmann's head is next spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e6880	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen on TV screens! Mr. Strache, if one understands opposition work in such a way that basically nothing should be good in a country and everything should be bad so that one can support one's position, one's counter-position accordingly, and long enough to seek, then somewhere in the world one will find a statement or a "study" – under quotation marks – if one seeks with this attitude, and then perhaps will find at the UBS in Switzerland, which makes a study on income development in Austria. [[Abg. Bucher: You don't need to look long!]] [[Abg. May. Stefan: Have you been looking for them?]] I would rather like to see the chief economist of Bank Austria, who said to this UBS study that this is definitely wrong. [[Abg. Strache: Bank Austria is just before the collapse, this is a bad example!]] Real income in Austria has been inflation-adjusted since 2000 and has maintained its value. – That's the truth, and what the UBS says is a grumble! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] And if you add the subjective feeling of the Austrians, then every survey in the population shows us that the people in Austria have a high degree of satisfaction with their personal situation, with their situation in life, and that does not fit in with the bad speech you give of yourself every day. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Vilimsky: Just keep going!]] Ladies and gentlemen, you do not need to look for long, if you want to find positive votes. Josef Cap has already quoted one from an American newspaper. And because the question has come: Yeah, how old is the paper? – I don’t know, but I have read the last issue of the “Economic Week” from Germany these days. There are quite different things – the very opposite of what you say, Mr Strache: “While Greece, Spain and Italy are falling down and France and the UK are falling into recession, Austria is still recording an increasing gross domestic product (GDP).” Austria’s economy has been growing “for ten years now faster than the average of the euro area.” “Neither in the European Union is unemployment lower than in Austria. [[Abg. May. Stefan: Nevertheless, the debt is growing!]] The employment rate is high on record.” – This is what the German “Economics Week” writes. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] And it goes on there: ‘The country has largely developed its favourable competitive position itself.’ “Not only short-term growth impulses have ensured that Austria is better hit by the crisis than other euro area countries.” This is a view from the outside, not from somewhere, but directly from the neighborhood, and I take it very much more seriously than this ominous study, which has already been said enough. Mr Strache, of course, this is not only a merit of politics, but, first of all, a merit of the ability of the Austrians, the workers as well as the entrepreneurs. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Strache: That's right once!]] But politics also contributes to this, with reform policy, which is not always pleasant, because sometimes you have to do unpleasant things. Only: You actually have relatively little share in this, because, when it became difficult in the 2000s, you fled the government in 2004 instead of putting in place reform measures with us that have brought us on this path that we are currently on. You're a refugee, a responsible refugee! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Stefan: I understand why everyone resigns from the generation! I understand you can't stand that anymore!]] Mr Kogler, I appreciate the differentiated attitude and the differentiated access you always choose. Not only bad, not only good, but a little too defensive or a little too negative was your statement then already to me: It's not all bad in Austria. – I would say it's almost all good, but it's not all good. That would be more likely to happen, but as you say, it's not all bad, it's also too negative for me. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, deficits and debt are not a viable foundation for a state. The result of too high deficits and too high debt in countries, in countries is a loss of trust. [[Abg. Strache: We have been hearing this from you for over 20 years now!]] In Austria, unlike other countries, one has great confidence, and the capital markets – one can stand up to them as one wants to – work. They work in the way that they give confidence – through good ratings, through low interest rates – that manages reasonablely – clamps on: like Austria, and of course they punish those and do not give those who are poor and lead their country to the brink of the abyss, such as Greece or others. So these markets work, and they give us an excellent witness. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we should not raise the index finger too high to other countries. We have also lived on the conditions in Austria for many years – the state, not individuals – and were required – several times and most recently in the spring of this year – to link a consolidation package that will bring us back to the right path. And this consolidation package, which this coalition government has presented and which we have decided in this House, brings us back to the right path, namely, 2016 to a balanced government budget and 2020, at least again below the level of debt that is considered critical by states, i.e. below 60 percent. [[Abg. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, but I'm sorry.]] And from 2014, the debt ratio will start to decline. So don't constantly paint the devil on the wall here! In a few years' time, we will be able to balance both the budget and reduce the debt. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: “Rebalanced”?- Oh, my God!]] That's the truth! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The budget, ladies and gentlemen, which we are presenting to you today and then on Friday, is exactly a step that follows this consolidation path that we have taken. It focuses on discipline in expenditure. It focuses on strengthening competitiveness and exploiting growth potential through offensive measures. For one thing has to be clear to us, ladies and gentlemen: Without growth, the prosperity, the high prosperity that we have in this country, is not to be kept. We need growth! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Let's not think about it. The growth prospects for Europe are not so rosy in competition with other continents. We must try to change this perspective for Europe as a whole, we must try to improve it if we want to keep our prosperity. Another sentence from the “Economic Week. ” It also states: “ () In order for the country to be able to play “long-term in global competition, the government must make further efforts.” Yes, we are aware of that, and this is exactly what this Federal Government is doing. The 2013 budget is spending discipline and – I have already said it – a series of offensive measures amounting to approximately €6.3 billion, which is almost 10 percent of the total budget, and half of it goes into schools and universities, ladies and gentlemen – an important investment in the future. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Last Friday, the Federal Government presented a series of structural improvements to improve our country's competitiveness, increase growth opportunities and improve employment opportunities. The economic package, the labour market package presented there, is ideally suited to keep us on the success course we are on. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen: We are an example of saving, we are an example of growth, and we are an example of low unemployment. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the FPÖ]] With expenditure discipline and increased competitiveness, we will be able to keep Austria at its success rate.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e7141	Mr Klubobmann Bucher. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e7162	Thank you, Madam President. – Also an interesting observation: Mr. Strache as a refugee. Mr Strache, I hope that you will have at least a decent accommodation and that you will not be treated as refugees who need to be accommodated in camp camps in Austria, because the Federal Government is unable to provide decent accommodation for these refugees, ladies and gentlemen. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Großruck]] [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Mr. Kopf, you always confuse something. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] It is not about us talking about Austria badly or that we underestimate the benefits. It is about the achievements of entrepreneurs, the benefits of employees in our country, that they deserve a special appreciation! But, thank God, we are still relatively good today, and this, ladies and gentlemen, despite this federal government. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] This is exactly the crucial point: despite this federal government. We are against it, Mr Kopf, that you are always mixing things here. We oppose that you are turning Austria into a light where everything seems to be fine. That's not the case. And here you explain from the speaker's desk always wrong things, such as that the Federal Government is doing everything to ensure the competitiveness of Austria. We are falling off, ladies and gentlemen. Austria loses competitiveness from year to year. We have now landed at 16th place, and we have already been among the top 3 in the European Community. That's reality. Mr Cap, there is of course also something positive. I don't know where you are right now, but the only positive thing about your speech is always the entertainment value. This is extremely positive. Negative, dear. Ladies and gentlemen, in Mr Cap's speech, he meant that this federal government was supporting small, medium-sized enterprises. What we are currently reading in the media, based on an entrepreneur, Mr. Heinrich Staudinger, who leads a company – Waldviertler Shoes, Bags, Furniture and mattresses – is a great example of how entrepreneurship is currently in Austria. [[The speaker holds a paper with the following title: “GEA shows – We are the people – civil right instead of banking!”]] This man is opposed to the supervision of the financial market in Austria in public advertisements. Why? – Because he has done the following, and with this I am bringing to your attention, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, the reality: A parade entrepreneur, whom I personally have come to know and appreciate, a parade entrepreneur – and a parade company – who has not received money from the banks and has found private lenders, this entrepreneur is currently being so harassed that he has no opportunities for expansion. [[Abg. Riepl: Is this a friend of yours?]] If the banks were to operate exactly this business, that is to say, to make the money available to the economy to create jobs in order to generate growth – exactly what you spoke about, Mr Kopf – then, ladies and gentlemen, the economy would actually work. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] No, the banks don't give these companies any money. The banks speculate again and invest their money where they risklessly collect high returns, there cash returns where the taxpayer is liable for them. [[Abg. Head: They don't give those who haven't gotten any money before!]] This, ladies and gentlemen, is exactly the point we are talking about: Banks have long taken on their own role and task of making money available to citizens and businesses so that they can invest and create jobs. This Mr Staudinger is a synonym for the sick system that currently prevails in Austria. That is why we have been talking for a long time about the need for a separation system, Mr Bundeskanzler, where we say again: The taxpayer shall be liable only for those banking areas where banks, commercial banks make the money available for loans, companies or individuals. But the individual taxpayer is not supposed to be liable and responsible for this when it comes to the fact that banks are going to speculate with the money in public casinos. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] That would already be appropriate, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, and we are waiting for it. Now on the efforts of the colleague's head, who has said that we cannot criticize anything but. Mr Kopf, if you stand out here and talk for the most part of the time about the ÖVP being against further tax increases and against further debt, you will finally do what you are talking about! You have there on the government bank in the person of Mrs Fekter the record debt minister, the record debt minister! Austria has never had as many debts in the Second Republic as it is now, never before. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] As far as the tax and tax rate is concerned, we have now reached the 43 percent limit. This is precisely the reason why, ladies and gentlemen, we have not participated in this debt brake by the BZÖ. We knew you were going the wrong way again and turning on the control screw. They increase the additional wage costs, increase taxes and taxes in Austria and try to keep themselves somewhat above water in this way. [[Abg. Head: Where?]] [[Abg. Head: Where?]] How else is it to explain that the tax and tax rate increases by 0.5 percent? This is in this budget, ladies and gentlemen, please read it! And if you've read it, don't sit here and talk about us reducing the tax and tax rate! The exact opposite is the case, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP! [[BZÖ and Abg. Bitch.]] Because we're just there: An honest budget, Mrs Finanzminister, looks like the businessmen in Austria have to do, as Mr Staudinger must do. If he wants a loan, he has everything to put on the table, all liabilities, all obligations, all liabilities. The banks look every entrepreneur into the pit, Mrs. Finanzminister, and I expect you to give up all the debt of the Republic and all the liabilities of the Republic, including the municipalities, including the countries, at last instead of always giving up as a finance minister on the government bank as a “cult cover”. [[OBJECTIVES]] They are not honest with the taxpayers of Austria – and we seriously expect us to agree to a European finance minister. You're seriously expecting this from us? If you are not even willing to put the figures on the table in Austria, here with us in Austria, what do you think we have at European level? They even criticize the Spaniards and the Greeks that they have lied to Europe, but do nothing else with the Austrian taxpayers by not telling us the truth about how high the debt, how high the liability actually is. The fact that the debt ratio is now no longer 74 percent, but actually more than 80 percent, is the reality, Mrs Finanzminister! I don't understand why you're doing this at all. It would only be honest to say: This is our debt, from which we have to go down, for that we have to develop a concept! We from BZÖ have a concept, ladies and gentlemen, a new tax model for Austria, a fair tax tax tax, which keeps people in the bag more money. This could eventually reverse you from this mistake to pull all the money out of your pocket, to lock it over a sinterous distribution machine of red-black officials and then return it to the people 15 billion euros. That's crazy! They pull the money out of the bag to restore it to people in the form of alms and subsidies and subsidies. That's the wrong way. That's the wrong way. We need an intelligent control system. This will save you a lot of money that you could use for economic impulses that we will need in the future, especially as the economy in Austria stutters, the prospects for the next few years are extremely sad and jobs are at risk. That would be the right way, Mrs Finanzminister, and that would also be the courageous way you could take! But there is nothing to be seen in this budget from all these proposals.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e7308	Mr Klubobmann Ing. Lugar is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e7329	Madam President. High house! My very dear television viewers! The situation in Europe at the moment and the latest news look like the trade unions in Europe are calling for strike. The desperate people in Spain and Greece are involved. The question is: Can we continue this way without one day having to do that? We only need to look at Greece. Look at the situation in Greece in 2003, 2004, 2005! I was in Greece several times, the people there went well. There was an upswing, one had the feeling that Greece has managed to get Greece on a better path. People took courage, there was a high level of full employment, people went well in 2003, 2004, 2005. What happened? – It has happened exactly what threatens us in Austria, namely: a government that unfortunately does not have too much vision. It was the same in Greece. The government already knew, in 2003, 2004, 2005 that the figures do not agree that the budget is out of the row, that wrong figures are reported in Brussels. All of this she knew, but she had no view to say: Dear people, we now have to get together and work on the problems together! This has not been the case in Greece, it would have been possible. Other countries have done this. Let's look at Switzerland or Sweden! Switzerland and Sweden have had similar problems as we, like Greece, perhaps not as bad in terms of expression, and what have they done? – They sat at a table, took action and included the population. One thing is certain: The population is much more sufferingable than we believe. It is also much preferable for the population to take out now rather than to have the major problems in one, two, three, five years, as is the case in Greece and Spain. There is mass unemployment in Spain, 50 percent of young people in Spain have no work. Faith You didn't know that the Spanish accepted cuts a few years ago or a decade ago, did they know that they could save themselves today? We're right there today. Mr. Cap is here and says it's all right, we have green meadows and beautiful landscapes in Austria, Mr. Kopf says we have so brave and diligent people. – Yes, of course, we have green meadows and beautiful landscapes, and the problem is not that we don’t have decent people in this country, but the problem is that we have too little competent politicians in that country. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] [[Oh, call at SPÖ and ÖVP.]] That's the point. The point is that a politician – I do not take anyone out – has to tell the citizen the truth, just as a doctor has to tell the citizen how it is about him. There are doctors who prescribe pain tablets and don't worry about the problem, and exactly the same thing we do with this budget. We do nothing but scatter sand into the eyes of the citizen with the budget, we do not address the real problems. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: I did that!]] We've known the problems we've had for decades. I am glad that the President of the Court of Auditors is here today, because he and his predecessors have been encouraging something to happen in Austria for years and decades, for example in the pension area, where we have a huge problem. We can no longer finance pensions in ten years' time. [[Abg. Neubauer: That's not true!]] This is a fact, there is no pension expert who sees it differently. And what happens? - Nothing. Or in the health field: We have experienced a doubling of health costs over the last ten years. Calculate how long this can go well! But nothing happens. Or in the administrative field: There is something going wrong, and I am not yet talking about the mortgages that we have now received, not yet from the ESM, through which we have to expect liabilities that go far beyond what we can ever afford, or from the ECB's purchasing programmes, for which we share our share in the ECB, or from the TARGET2 balances, from the fact that the ECB is distributing our savings where it is needed, and there are many places in Europe where money is spent generously, where the banks are generously distributing our money – without hope for return. We must address all these problems. Now someone like Frank Stronach, who has proven that he can manage – he has proved that; he has proved that he can, not only has he built a world group with 115 000 employees, no, he has also bought very, very many businesses that were just before the pleite, and he has rehabilitated them; he can also, he can also rehabilitate – now a man like Frank Stronach, and Mr Spindelegger has great confidence in him. Mr Spindelegger trusts him, he has asked him to clean up the ÖBB, which is a big piece in our budget – we know that up to 6 billion are lost there. And what's the SPÖ doing? – Instead of being grateful for Frank Stronach's coming with his own experts, taking his own money – that doesn't cost the state a cent – and delivering expertise on what we can do, she says: We don't need that! In a country where billions are wasted, Mrs Bures does not need Frank Stronach to look at the right and make proposals with his experts on his own account. He didn't want anything else. He wanted to make good suggestions on how we can do it better. I wonder why we here in Parliament are reaping such tremendous resistance. We should all be glad that experts from outside – like Mr Moser, President of the Court of Auditors, whom I very much appreciate, Mr Fierce and many other experts – always provide us with information on how we can do better. We should welcome this and not simply wipe it off the table. I think that would be reasonable. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] In the end, it's just each other. That's something I keep saying, because it's the same. We have enormous problems, and we must convince the citizens that it is now accepting cuts so that it does not get as bad as in Greece, Spain and in other countries in the future. In other words, we must convince citizens that we honestly believe that we have good solutions, that we need to work with them now, and in some areas we may have to accept cuts in some ways. This is only possible if we are working together here in Parliament. That means if we're fighting and don't pull on a line, then it doesn't work. That is, we have to act as a unity, we have to put good concepts on the table – they are practically on the table thanks to the experts – and we should work together to reach out to the public and ask him for support, because without the support of the citizen, it will not be possible. [[Abg. Strache: Together as before in BZÖ!]] Finally, the citizen may have to accept cuts over long distances, and he will only do so if he believes that we mean it honestly and that it will be better in the future. No one is interested in experiencing such situations as in Greece. Nobody's really interested in this. That is to say, the citizen wants to accept this too, I am convinced. And one thing is quite certain: Just as we've done so far, we can't. We cannot go here and double the promotion of the party and then expect the citizen to accept cuts. I can't do that! [[Congratulations with the Stronach team, as well as with representatives of the FPÖ.]] That is, if we expect the citizen to cooperate – and we expect them – then we must take the first step, and that is why I propose today: Request by Mr Ing. Lugar, Markowitz, Hagen, colleagues on the withdrawal of the increase in the promotion of the party from €2.41 to €4.60 per electorate The National Council wants to decide: “The Federal Government is invited to cancel immediately the increase in party funding from €2.41 to €4.60 per eligible person.” [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] This is really important, because we cannot put 15 million on top of it every year, in addition to the 300 million that the entire political apparatus already costs, and then expect the citizen to be willing to cooperate when we present the reforms accordingly. That's why: If we go forward with a good example, we decide to withdraw this increase in the promotion of the party, then I am convinced that there will be citizens who want to join us in a struggle that is also ready to accept cuts! One thing is also certain: The citizen expects us to deal courageously with the issue of finally addressing the reforms that the Court of Auditors and many others are putting on the table. Then the citizen is also willing to cooperate with us, because in the end we need more together and less one another for Austria, then we can rule out situations like in Greece and Spain according to my view. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e7442	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is properly tabled and sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e7509	Mr Faymann is now speaking. Agreed speaking time: 12 minutes. - Please, Federal Chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e7530	Madam President. Dear Members on the Government Bank! Mr President of the Court of Auditors. Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! In the course of the last speaker's speech, I asked myself what Mr Strache actually did wrong, that this is a competitor who takes away so many votes from him. [[Cheerfulness and applause with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] I suppose he'll think about it himself. In any case, I thought of the second part, when you, Mr Lugar, spoke about the promotion of the parties: Even if it is not always easy to explain why we stand up for transparency on the one hand and for party promotion on the other, it is preferable, however, that we stand in this representative democracy to promote the party rather than in each of my speeches having to say “Stronach” five times. [[Abg. Strache: I look forward to your long face on the election evening!]] [[Congratulations with SPÖ, ÖVP and Greens.]] This brings me to those participants who have spoken today about the economic situation, the facts, also the weaknesses – even a country as strong and rich as Austria, of course, has weaknesses – and about how to develop, develop, and want to start with that yesterday, i.e. 13th. November, interest on long-term bonds on the money market – ten-year return – has reached a percentage of 1.77. We know that in this House too, it has always been discussed that interest rates for government bonds mean an effort that is particularly unpleasant, not only because interest payments for loans are always unpleasant, but also because it is a distribution from bottom to top. Workers pay in their large majority with the tax money, which must then be spent at interest rates, as is the case with other countries. And you also have to be grateful if you find someone who has money to invest to pay him these high interest rates. So there's probably no such thing as a lot more unpleasant in the distribution. Indeed, the money could be used better than for high interest rates for government bonds. The fact that Austria has reached 1.77 per cent for ten years of bonds, for which the budgets reach an average of 4 per cent, shows only in the evaluation of how Austria is compared with Europe. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bucher.]] There are very few countries that pay as low or even lower interest rates as we do, and there are many countries, including neighbouring countries such as Italy, Hungary, which have to pay 5 percent, 6 percent, 7 percent interest, and therefore they have to spend considerable funds that they do not invest in economic growth – which would be urgently necessary – not in education, in training, in research, but in interest for government bonds. It is not possible for us to be seen in such a way that we are working properly, but it is not possible to make a political decision. How much interest you pay for government bonds, some want you to make a political decision, but you can't. This assessment is beyond our political discussion, but it shows that Austria is seen as a stable country, as a country with low interest rates as a reliable country in Europe, a particularly reliable country through the performance of entrepreneurs, workers, farmers, all those who contribute to it, in conjunction with the political framework conditions that you, which we have set together, also in many unanimous decisions. This is already a good sign that we can use our money for measures that stimulate the economy, for measures that benefit the social system, the prosperity that benefits the social compensation of poverty reduction, and not simply for interest rates for government bonds. Therefore, Mr Bucher – and I would like to contradict you in this – it was wrong that you did not vote in favour of the debt brake. One can be of different opinion as to how to achieve it, but to admit that one needs it, to that, Mr Bucher, you have lacked courage! I regret that because that would also be a real step towards keeping these low interest rates still. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] In fact, we will not be able to secure exports without the framework in European economic policy alone. I have had the opportunity yesterday to refer to these framework conditions in Europe, which we so urgently need. And here, too, we have to expect strong or medium-sized recession in the time when we are now experiencing very low growth, even in many of our partner countries, that we are investing in the right thing at this difficult time: in a stable Europe, in better conditions and in our own country to a special extent in education and training. There is still much to improve. They know that the whole day school is there in discussion, which is of particular importance, but also far beyond our dual training system, which is particularly important throughout Europe, because it puts skilled workers' training in this way in the foreground. Or the proposal that we should once again have the courage to make funds available for a training guarantee across Europe. By means of over-company training workshops and training guarantees, as we know, one could get a million young people off the street. This would be a further development that benefits Europe, which also benefits us. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Financial market regulation, measures against tax fraud, measures to strengthen financial authorities in their activities in those countries, where there are taxes, but the collection does not work properly, these would be the right measures. You know, if a bank becomes insolvent in Greece tomorrow, then it does not happen to those who have long brought their money to Switzerland, but then it meets the wrong ones. Therefore, it is not the bank of the enemy, but we must be careful that this crisis, this financial crisis, does not always go out at the expense of the wrong ones and that we have in time such regulations and rules that speculation does not go out on the back of the wrong people, namely, the weakest in a society. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: For four years this has been the case! For four years, nothing has changed!]] With regard to those positions that we have often discussed – therefore they have not played a role today – I would just like to recall one. It has been asked how assured that is what we are doing in the financial framework, in the budget and in the subsequent years. In conclusion, I can only say that those who have doubted that a step is being taken in the financial transaction tax, now see that this is possible with much commitment. In other areas too, it was possible for Austria to become strong for the interests that are so important to us in this common Europe. And it is our duty at the moment to ensure that the commitments we are now entering into are particularly strengthened for the next few years' financial framework, employment, training, infrastructure. But there are just these two Austrian priorities, that we say, although this discount has disappeared from the Commission's proposal and has not appeared since then, we are rightly fighting for this discount and we are fighting to see, in particular, in the second pillar of agriculture, what Austria is doing. And I would not have told you this because yesterday I had the opportunity, if not the proposal that has come back from the presidency today, to go back in the direction: If it is saved, then this second pillar of agriculture is considered as a potential saving potential. Organic agriculture, the miners, the rural area, this is not the key to saving and red tape. The key to saving is to think together, where you have double tracks. The key to revenue such as the financial transaction tax, that some also do more that has done less in the past, is the right answer. And priorities in the budget, as we have put ourselves in our budget in our own country, in the field of education, research and development, are so difficult, that is the right key to dealing with the tasks of the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e7623	Next speaker: Mr Krainer. The following round of speakers has 6 minutes each. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e7645	Madam President. High house! I believe that the framework figures of this federal government are right, not just with this budget, but in fact with the policies of recent years. Austria has come through the crisis much better than most other countries of the European Union. We have the lowest unemployment in Europe, we have the largest increase in employment, the highest level of employment in the history of the Second Republic, and we have better growth than almost all other neighbouring countries and comparable countries in the European Union. That is to say, the key figures are right that this federal government may not have done everything right, but at least it must have done a lot right. Otherwise we would not have compared to all other European countries these good figures which we can present here. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Our path of consolidation is to say that we want to save – yes, that is necessary – to save socially justly, at the same time we want to ensure fair revenue by burdening the labour factor on taxation and re-importing or increasing capital, capital-related taxes, and thirdly, also setting up offensive measures in the area of thermal rehabilitation and the like. “Green jobs” the Greens always say, that’s certainly a point that’s right where they’re right, but where this federal government also sets accents. This path is being pursued through this budget, and that is why it finds our support. This does not mean that there are no challenges that exist, of course. Austria is not a European champion or world champion in the field of education, since we are in the middle field and we can certainly get much better and also need to get better. That is why we also see that there is more funding in the budget for education, for schools, for universities. I am pleased to see, for example, that more movement is coming into the question of day-to-day schools, and that countries, municipalities, and also the ÖVP, which was unfortunately very hesitant here, see that this is an important mosaic in educational reform. I'm glad to be here in 2013. I believe that as far as the tax structure in Austria is concerned, we must also take steps. We still tax work far too high compared to how we tax capital and wealth income. [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: You said that so many times before!]] A simple example: From the whole cake, the total income earned in Austria, about 60 percent of those who go to work receive money for their money, and those who have capital and wealth and make a profit from it receive about 40 percent of it. [[Abg. Dolinschek: Why don't you change that? That's always the same speech!]] But the state's financing is about 85 percent about work and consumption and only about 15 percent about property and capital taxes. We have done a lot, we have reduced taxes and taxes on work by 3 billion, and at the same time we have increased taxes on labour and capital to about the same extent – because you are asking what we are doing about this. [[Abg. Ing. Hofer: This is the speech of the previous year!]] These were first important steps, but there must be further steps to achieve a fair distribution of the tax burden here. However, I would like to say a few words about those things that Mr Strache, who has now left, has said here. He said Austria had a record issue ratio. So, please, we looked at the billing yesterday, I looked at it very carefully: What was that like in 2009? - She has fallen. What was that like in 2010? - She has fallen. What was that like in 2011? - She has fallen. So what we had in the crisis was falling tax and tax quotas and not record expenditure quotas, as is claimed here. You can also take a close look at: When did the highest tax and tax rate really exist? [[Abg. May. Widmann: Now! Now!]] No, no, no, They were there when the FPÖ and the BZÖ were still a party and the Finance Minister had set up. In fact, we had the highest tax and tax rate of over 44 percent! So if you complain, please complain about the story of your own party! Next point: They're talking about subsidies. That sounds really good: Austria spends 6.5 percent on subsidies, the EU cut is 3.5 percent – we have to reduce it! That's probably what the listeners think, and that's true, because no one's affected by subsidies. But please, what are the subsidies in truth? That's for 13/14. The monthly salary must be paid less taxes, is technically a subsidy, a tax subsidy. It accounts for 2.5 percent of GDP. The lower taxation of overtime and finishings and the shuttle fees make up one percent again. That is, if Strache says that we have to reduce the subsidies now at 6.5 percent to 3.5 percent, then even if I delete all the other subsidies, then we still have 3.5 – either at the 13th/14, at the overtime, at the shuttle fee or at the finals. It's pure polemics. I assume he doesn't want to. It sounds good to say that subsidies must be reduced, but not to mention the fact that this is in fact the 13th/14th, the treatment favour, the pendulum fee and the favourable taxation of overtime. That is why I am glad that we are sitting here on the government bank, not polemists, but politicians who are very serious about how the development is in Austria, and do their best to ensure that Austria is managed as well in the future and as well as through this crisis as it is at present. I would like to add a supplement to the effect orientation, because it is now new to budgetary law. There's a lot of light. Minister Stöger with his place of business is an example where this works very well. I believe, however, that we still have to think about how we can jointly reduce the shadows that exist here, so that the orientation of action becomes what we have all done together here. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e7736	Mr Jakob Auergegen, Member of the Commission. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e7760	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen, Ministers and State Secretary on the Government Bank! Mr President-in-Office of the Council! Ladies and gentlemen! The budget is the policy cast into figures, which is an old keyword. It was interesting to listen to the statements made by the head of the liberal opposition party, when he said that all the budgets of this federal government had been marked by courage in recent years. He spoke about record debt and referred to the study of a Swiss bank, UBS. Just this Swiss UBS needed to get 60 billion state liability from the Swiss taxpayers. 60 billion state arrest! But, ladies and gentlemen, that doesn't matter. The most important thing is to quote something and give the impression that the Swiss would be excellent. At the same time, Strache complained about the condition in which Austria is located. Ladies and gentlemen! Let's compare a little as Austria actually stands in competition with the other countries in Europe. Austria has had the lowest unemployment in Europe for two years. Benchmark is Austria. Health policy, social policy: Many citizens of other countries would wish if they had only positive rules similar to those we had in this area. Austria is also one of the benchmarks, ladies and gentlemen. Then one criticizes the subsidies. This has already been addressed. Inflation is too high. A look at reality is announced here. Yes, it could be lower, but it is clear that inflation was on average higher in the ten years before European accession than in the last ten years since we joined the EU. [[Abg. May. Stefan: All over the world! Not just with us!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Bucher speaks of an error in Austria. Again: This “Irrweg” of Austria, I say, this positive path of Austria, would be desirable for many countries. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Let us look at the competitiveness of Austria in the international concert. Wage unit costs, export quotas – we are on our way. Thanks to these excellent export figures, we are pleased to note that Austria's economy can be dazzling in international competition that the ability of workers and workers, the skilled workers and the performance of businesses in this European competition can be excellent. [[Congratulations on MEPs from ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! And if a budget debate should also be a general debate on government policy in political competition, then the question is: Who has better concepts, better solutions to labour market problems, economic policy, internal and external security, the stabilisation of financial markets? To this end, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, especially of FPÖ and BZÖ: Their economic contributions must be cut off as conceptual, helpless and unsuccessful, unfortunately also as a substanceless one. A grandmaster of sharp points to be and give nothing of himself except loud tones, that's a little bit. Let's hold this: That's a little bit! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Stefan: We could make debts too!]] If you listen to your complaint, everything is nothing, we're bad, then I have to say, friends, your contributions are irrational. In fact, 50 percent of the economy is also a matter of mood. I wonder very slowly: What do you have about talking things so badly? Are you paid for it? Do you have any of that? I don't think that's a particularly remarkable performance, that's also too little for an opposition. There was once a very remarkable article in which a journalist wrote about political starkness and debt. I quote: “Manipulation by the media is hard-wearing. Almost all classes of society, especially the bourgeois, have recorded a fashion word: Political indifference. A boulevard came out with the headline: ‘The Austrian Parliament’s crisis – the people believe the MP too little.’ Many readers” and many spectators and the ladies and gentlemen of the opposition “will now nod in agreement. But be careful: That's what the commissioner was doing on 28 October. December 1957!" So much to the realities, so much to what you are constantly trying to stir up, to heat up, and to keep pointing out that this would be nothing we have achieved in Austria. I claim that Austria's economy is running well. I claim, and this can be demonstrated by facts that Austrian budgetary policy is doing very carefully. Let us compare our figures with those of other countries; and there we do not only need to look at Europe. Let us look at the government debt, the budget deficit of the Americans! No one talks about it, but no one knows how it will continue if you have more than 100 percent of debt, if, like Japanese, you have more than 200 percent of public debt to GDP, if you have a budget deficit of over 10 percent. We in Austria, on the other hand, have met the criteria last year, are quite positive and will have a balanced budget with this budget line, thanks to the Minister of Finance, thanks to the cooperation at the Federal Government level in 2016. We're on a positive road. Let's hold it once, even if you don't like it.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e7833	Mr Kickl is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e7855	Madam President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, let me refer to the statements made by the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany and SPÖ, who believed that he had to worry about the Freedom Party. You know, if one in this room has a credibility problem, then this is you, Mr Bundeskanzler, just as you are sitting behind me. You are an incarnate problem of credibility! [[Congratulations with the FPÖ as well as with representatives of the Stronach team.]] The problem is not that we as a Freedom Party do not believe you. You could take that from your point of view. The problem is that larger and larger parts of the Austrian population do not believe you, and the biggest problem for you should be that your own party no longer believes you, because You even undercut the depths of Mr. Sinowatz with your last party result. I think that would have brought the Stronach together if he had run for you, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] There is a safe indicator that shows that it is not as well ordered as it is repeatedly claimed by the representatives of SPÖ and ÖVP. And this indicator is the head of Mr Cap. You only have to look at it carefully once: The bigger the curve, the bigger the worm of conscience that plagues him. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Hands out of the pocket!]] It is not a question of us standing very well in comparison with other countries, but it is the question – and we are on homework, Mr Cap – whether we are able to raise the potential we could have in Austria, what would be possible for people, for workers, for entrepreneurs, whether we are lifting this potential in our own country or not. That is the crucial question! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And that's where the conscience worm is with you, because you have an incredibly long list of failures and an incredibly long record of sins, ladies and gentlemen. And then it becomes grotesque when Klubobmann Cap makes himself here and appeals to the liberals in connection with something like Austrian self-confidence. There's the wrong address, I have to tell you. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Cap: That's what we know.]] The chancellor has received God's thanks, because he is the one - you should have addressed him - who yesterday explained the blessing that we all expect together now because the EU contributions are raised. To that end, you should address your appeals regarding Austrian self-confidence, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Or you can skip the empty seat in the back and turn to the Minister for Finance. That would also be an appropriate contact person, because, from her point of view, Mrs Finanzminister, as a representative of Austrian self-confidence, obviously the abermillions and abermillions of taxpayers who are being bullied by the Austrians, disappear in barrels without soil, ladies and gentlemen. And it doesn't stop, but continues to play this game, to the detriment of the Austrian population. You should turn around. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Cap: What is positive now? What's positive?]] It is no less grotesque if Mr. Kopf makes the strange attempt to take the necessary measures – structural measures that are necessary to demand reform measures that are necessary to put in place fiscal measures that are necessary – past the budget in a kind of parallel universe. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: That's positive now!]] You have to imagine that! There has been negotiations over a budget for months now, where all the choices of a financial nature are put in place, so that what you imagine in reforms can be implemented, and then you go here, adopt a budget that continues what we have already had in the past, and develop your visions in parallel for what should have happened, ladies and gentlemen. No one understands that you have not entered into this budget the opportunity you have announced a reduction, for example in the area of wage tax. That's where it would have been. Instead, drive You're in the world of conjunctiv – Hätti-Wäri-Wari-politik brand ÖVP! And if you measure it by reality, ladies and gentlemen, then something completely different comes out. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This is a UFO budget – U, F, O –, ladies and gentlemen! This has nothing to do with flying saucers or with extraterrestrial intelligence, which one might have been able to flow in because there is too little on the red and black side. No, ladies and gentlemen, UFO stands with you for “unsanified” and “unrighteous” – that is a component of this budget – with F for “fantasyless” and simply “advanced”, and the O stands for “without substantial reform”. [[Interlocutory call to the ÖVP]] [[Interoperability call at the SPÖ]] – This is the UFO budget, ladies and gentlemen, and you have to look for a long time before you find winners in this country who also deserve it. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] I'm not talking about the winners that actually exist. Winners of this system, which does not deserve it, are here in the hands of the decisions you have cast through by SPÖ and ÖVP with the green robbers, for example in the area of party financing – a third more. And you wanted to cash this back until you got there. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Riepl.]] You are a winner of this system, Mr Cap and Mr Kopfe head, but you are not one who has earned it to be among the winners. We imagine ourselves under a reasonable budgetary policy, the workers in this country, the families in this country, the children in this country, the young people to be winners. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But these are exactly those groups that fall through the rust once again with you, with this budget – just as it was in the past. This is a game of mourning, ladies and gentlemen, but not an announcement that is almost suitable to actually earn the predicate “future-setting and sustainable”. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to conclude by saying: I can tell you, you actually did your best with this budget. But don't understand that as a praise. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] This is exactly the problem we are facing. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] This best is not nearly enough to achieve an improvement in the situation of the Austrian population. That is, ladies and gentlemen, if you really want to achieve this, then you have to take the skills out of your hands and make sure that the 2014 budget is written by other political forces.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e8043	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Rossmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e8065	Madam President. Appreciate members of the government! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! High house! Yes, it is true, Austria is not in a bad position and has survived the crisis better than many other countries, but that does not mean that Austria can get caught up in what it has, or can't even get better than it is. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] I am thinking of the many missing structural reforms that this government has been putting forward years ago, a federalism reform, a health reform, a reform of the financial balance. Or do we also talk about the lack of resources for the future, from childcare and old-age care to research, education and science. If it is said here that Austria is so great in terms of employment data as well, in terms of European comparison, however, it must not be overlooked that unemployment in Austria is one of the lowest or lowest in Europe, but that we will have an unemployment rate of 7.4 percent in the coming year, which we have not had since the war. This is a record level, which also applies to youth unemployment. That is to say, Mr Kopf, what the “Economic Week” says is too little. Look at the data, and then you'll see what to do for this country! To relax on what has happened so far is simple and simply too little. [[Abg. Hoefinger: That doesn't make a man!]] Why is that so? – This is a consequence of false diagnosis, Mr. Kopf has made a completely wrong diagnosis. I'm really nervous about this: It's always said we've lived over our relationships. – No, not we have lived over our conditions, the ban- knowers have lived over their conditions. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Why do we have these high public debt we need today? – Because we have to deal with an economic and banking crisis that in recent years, since 2007, has greatly raised public debt. The solution always means: Austerity policy across Europe at all costs, cost it what it wants. What is going on in Greece we see; what is going on in Spain and Portugal we see. It is not wrong for European trade unions to call for a day of protest, which is not a coincidence. So if I say that Austria is based on a false diagnosis, the solutions are also wrong, because it cannot be the case that only fiscal policy can be used to prepare the solutions for the future. In any case – and we now know that from the International Monetary Fund – this path leads us to a situation that reaches the opposite of what it is supposed to achieve, that is higher and not lower public debt. The IMF says that Europe is in a dangerous downward spiral, and we should note this here in Austria and in Europe, also in connection with the recasting of the financial framework for the EU budget from 2014 to 2020. It is therefore not up to us to work forever on the symptoms and forget to do what we should do, namely to fight the causes – that is to say, the uneven distribution of assets, the unhindered deregulated financial markets, and finally the fight against imbalances in the current account balances across Europe, which we cannot achieve on internal depreciations, saying cuts in wages. If I speak of the regulated financial markets, that will lead me to another topic. We have a veritable banking crisis also in Austria, and this has led people to lose confidence in these banks. Many people make money available to Heini Staudinger, and it is no coincidence why they do so: because they have no confidence in the banks of this country. If the financial market supervision and the Oesterreichische Nationalbank had checked all the banks as closely as they review Heini Staudinger before the crisis and after the crisis, then we would not have the problem that we need to pay €6 billion in the tax pot today at the expense of taxpayers. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Kogler]] That is the real scandal of this budget and of this Republic. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It can't be that way. It can't be that the financial markets are forever running around politics at the nose ring. As for the Heini Staudinger case, perhaps a final word: Because it is precisely because the citizens no longer have confidence in the banks, we will take care of it, we will develop a model, a participative citizen participation model that will allow those businesses, especially in structurally weak areas that need money for their investments, to receive it, and we will also ensure that the waterproof models, which also take into account investor protection. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] One sentence to the conclusion: If – and it is always the case in the budget – we want to produce a lot of speech about performance justice and fairness in this Republic, and this is clear from the data from the study of the Austrian National Bank, then we urgently need a reform of the tax system. Without inheritance and gift tax, there can be no fair and performance-based tax system. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e8136	Mr Grosz is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e8158	High house! I am just glad that all the speakers from SPÖ and ÖVP have now flew out after reading their speeches. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Krainer.]] I would have had to say something about Mr Auer's statement that he criticized political stardom in 1957 on a front page of that time. This political starry towards ÖVP is certainly because it was the second government of Julius Raab. Since you notice how long you have been in a federal government and only make debts in that country, you are from the ÖVP Economic Party. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] And on the comments of Mr Cap, who is also absent, you may give him the following: [[Interlocutory calls from Deputies Mag. Muttons and Csörgits]] He tells us all who are worried about this country to love this country, and he thinks we're just sorry. Yes, do you believe that if I did not love this country and if I only saw Austria as a geographical concept, not as an expression of my home country, where the heart and soul are at home, that I would be standing here today and also worry about this disastrous budgetary policy? If I did not worry about this country, I could also put my honourable Member's mandate on the hat and say that this country should go down the stream. But we do not, and that is why we are also dealing with this budget. Austria is a great country. Austria has great opportunities: Education, art, culture, science, economy, great people who work in this country, great people who live in this country; great people who have not deserved it, however, that a federal government like this robs young people, the elderly, the middle class in Austria of any future chance. With this budget, ladies and gentlemen of the EIA, you are only generous towards the European Union. Mrs Wachtegern-Margaret-Thatcher, Mrs Finanzminister, as you like to compare yourself with Margaret Thatcher, I would like to give you a quote from Margaret Thatcher from 1984: “I want my money back”, Margaret Thatcher said to the EU and did not deliver any more money to Brussels, but took the money back. The thing you're doing now with your Euro Discount, which you can't even negotiate, is that you'll probably get the contribution payments up from €600 million to € 1 billion. That's where you show yourself generously. They are generous to European pleite states. They generously show themselves to banks to which you bear the interest, the interest rates, as on the red pölsterchen. And you are generously showing yourself to the system and administrative guards in this country, where the President of the Court of Auditors has rightly made 599 proposals against this system in our country. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bucher.]] Show Yourself Against Yourself They are also generous, ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government, if political salaries are to be increased by 1.8 percent, while on the other hand, in Austria, care funds are being deleted, families need to experience cuts, young people are increasingly getting into poverty traps because they do not have a job because Austria is at the height of youth unemployment. [[Abg. Bucher: Party promotion doubled!]] You're less generous to them. The small and medium-sized enterprises are not generous, and ultimately you do not generously show yourself to the taxpayers in that country. You transfer with this budget once more money outside of Austria, instead of seeing that you finally reorganize our broken and debt-affected communities. The Grazers alone pay €3 billion in the year at the Financial Office of Graz – taxes, taxes, taxes on wages, turnover tax – and the second largest city in Austria receives exactly €170 million over the financial compensation. And last but not least, a black mayor and a black financial referent have made Graz City's debt debt to quickly increase to 1.3 billion euros. In addition, € 2 billion in pension obligations and hundreds of million euros in additional liabilities. In contrast, you should be generously shown to the taxpayers, the taxpayers of this country, who supply their taxes on a monthly basis and, unlike you, contribute to the maintenance in Austria of the economy and public security, education, science, art, culture and social and social life – despite you, not because of you, ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government. [[OBJECTIVES]] We have made alternative proposals with the Austrian Spa Book, where we can save: with a state and administrative reform, where we can save €1.2 billion; with the combination of 22 social security funds; with a health reform where at last €2 billion would be needed; with a reform of education and social affairs; with a savings package for politics – not an increase in party funds, not an increase in party funding, not an increase in club funding for parties that have not even been elected to the level of €2 million. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] That's not a spasm. That's not a savings family. This is a democratic coup at the height of a financial crisis in this country and an inactive federal government, which will only raise the political starkness, as it did at Julius Raab in 1957. They speculate that the people of our country no longer go to the constituencies. You hope that the vote will decrease because you know exactly that the critical people stay at home instead of going to the election. I call on everyone today to make use of their right to vote, to defend themselves against this federal government, to oppose this excruciation with a clear signal towards red and black. In the future, and in the future, in an alliance of the reasonable, we do not allow us to have a federal government which only burden this country, instead of finally burdening all of us Austrians. [[Interlocutory call to the ÖVP]]
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e8259	Mrs Kaufmann-Bruckberger is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e8281	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! Mr President-in-Office of the Council. High house! Yes, the 2013 budget can easily be described: There's no bite, there's no surprises, there's no big savings, no reforms – in short: Stand still. So you can also describe the 2013 budget with one word. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Krainer.]] 68.7 billion revenue is compared with 75 billion expenditure. Thus, we have again a minus of 6.7 billion, but even if it goes as you imagine it to be. Mr. Vice-Chancellor said in a press release: “We follow the 2013 budget exactly what we decided in spring: Get down with debt, invest where they are needed and offensive measures.” Yes, the budget target – at least Your budget objective, ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government – have In any case, they can't hold that that would have been 2.1 percent. The economic research institute assumes a deficit of 2.6 percent, and you yourself say that it will be 2.3 percent – but only if everything goes the way you imagine it. Of course, that you defend the budget and the bank aid, i.e. payments for the Volksbank and for the Hypo Alpe-Adria, for the municipal credit, that is quite clear. These payments, however, are also a huge burden on the budget balance. The financial crisis, or rather the banking crisis, has left a clear mark in the government budget. Bank rescue, with almost 11 billion in value, is a berth – money that will not flow back to the end, quite the contrary, it will cover even more capital needs – or even the repayments; we will have to wait for them for a very long time. In its report, the Govern ment Committee calls it a reason why there has not been any repayment that the market situation has been strained. Yes, the market situation is tense, the Austrian businessmen know that too the Austrian workers and thus the Austrian taxpayers. That is to say, in short: The planned repayments of just under €800 million have been missed, and it is expected that even more capital needs will be available. However, it is not only the local banks that worry us, they are also liability for pleite states such as Greece, Spain, Portugal and also Italy – liabilities that will hit sooner or later. And the situation will not really calm down either. The year 2013 will not be separated by New Year's Eve in the sense of this year, that it could be said that next year it will be better. On the contrary, the situation will not calm down so quickly. [[President Neugebauer shall take over the chairmanship.]] Of course, we in Austria have the advantage that we have very favourable financing conditions, so we pay low interest rates for the loans we receive. But in 2013 too, we have to spend a lot of billions on repaying the debt entered into for payments abroad. It remains to be hoped that the interest rates for the credits received will remain low and that there will be no recession, as the IMF fears. The only positive thing about this budget is that it is the last budget of this federal government, and I think that is also good. And if Mrs. Federal Minister Fekter also believes that the Federal Government's strategy is to consolidate the budget and provide impetus for growth and employment, this budget clearly shows that its objectives here are unrealistic. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Expenditure on pensions is falling, but at the same time expenditure on the labour market is increasing. The cost of training and unemployment support goes up from 5.63 billion to 5.87 billion euros. That is to say, you are already expecting an increase, with a higher unemployment rate in that country. – So much for your impulses for growth and employment in Austria. This budget is not responsible. [[Abg. Grossruck: A budget cannot be responsible!]] [[Abg. Strache: Will you offer another four-liner? Is there a four-liner?]] Actual indebtedness is dramatic and problematic, great savings or reforms are missing and are not recognizable. You, ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government, have nothing to offer. They leave the Austrians and the next generations a debt mountain characterized by ad-affairs and the increase in the promotion of the party. In other words, ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ and ÖVP: You ruled!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e8348	Now Mrs. Federal Minister Dr. Fekter is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e8369	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Members of the Ministers and Ministers! Dear Seers! High house! “Stabile finance through reforms, growth through offensive measures” – that was the motto I put this budget under. Budgetary discipline, structural measures, as well as offensive measures, is a key feature of this budget. I would like to begin by thanking all the taxpayers, because we would not be able to discuss a budget, if there were not a high tax morale in Austria, and especially because of the high tax rate, there would not also be high tax revenue. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] [[Call the FPÖ: I believe that!]] Tax revenue is particularly marked by good employment. We currently have a record employment scenario – there have never been as many people in employment as at present – and we also have the lowest unemployment in Europe – that is the ideal for people, what we need to stabilise and what we have to worry about – and this good employment situation makes it possible for us to present this budget, because it also causes taxes to burst. The international community has high confidence in Austrian budget and fiscal policy, that is, we are being very positive internationally – this has already been mentioned today. Only last week Fitch confirmed the triple-A again, with a stable outlook, and this in turn means that we have to pay very, very low interest rates for our bonds. We have the fourth lowest in all of Europe. Only in Germany, Holland and Finland are they similarly low, but are ahead of us; all other European countries have higher interest rates to pay. [[Abg. May. Kogler: I always said!]] The trust that the international community gives us must be developed, and again and again: through consistent stability and reform policy, through a macroeconomic balance – that is, we must make sure that we do not get a hit in an industry. We do this well, also thanks to the Austrians' willingness to do so. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We were able to support stability policy by having a new budgetary right. ==References== In January 2013, an opening account for the Republic of Austria will be drawn up for the first time, and then the Austrians will be able to see how we develop whether we are multiplying the assets or whether we are going down. This new budgetary policy, this new budgetary law – there is no more camera-listics, but we are balance-sheeting, just like any other company – has caused the resorts to be very economical, to accumulate reserves and, above all, to listen to the so-called October or November fever, where the money has been quickly spent to receive the budget items, the past. That is, our new budgetary law has a stabilizing effect. It leads to the implementation in the departments of those reforms that will then bring more efficiency. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] In addition to the introduction of this modern budgetary law, we have also concluded a Stability Pact with the countries: Debt brakes not only for the federal government, but also for the countries and municipalities. It is necessary in Austria that we talk with the countries and municipalities. Only centralism is not the solution either, Mr Kogler. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Kogler]] In other words, creating a good negotiating basis with the countries leads to a gradual reduction in deficits in countries and communities too. [[Abg. Neubauer: Why don't you do it?]] [[Abg. May. Rossmann: But the coordination!]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: No, not in Lower Austria!]] 0.4% deficit is allowed to make the countries next year. In other words, we do not really have the concern that the costs will explode there, but the cost drivers can already be found at the federal level, and we then undertake these specifically with reforms : [[Abg. May. Rossmann: The banks!]] Reforms in pensions so that we can gradually bring early retirement age closer to the statutory retirement age, reforms in the administration, reforms in the promotions, reforms in the health sector – and we are already very far away; the Minister of Health is now no longer present, but we have the next round on Friday, because we also agreed with the countries and social security schemes on a reform path. [[Abg. May. Kogler: There you have to hear what Mr Schelling says! – loud coffee wrench!]] With these reforms we stabilise our budget and will then also have a zero deficit in 2016 and subsequently also dampen the debt. That this is the right way to show international comments. The fact that the opposition does not praise us is in the nature of the matter, but we are well on the road compared to our European colleagues and colleagues. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Regrettably, the economic situation has deteriorated across Europe. The forecasts are that some countries experience recession phases. We have growth – not intoxicating, unfortunately, and therefore we are opposed by offensive measures. We take money in order to make ourselves fit for the future, in those areas that mean the future: That's all that has to do with our children, that's science, that's research, but that's also a boost to the economy, for example, through climate protection measures such as thermal rehabilitation. [[Abg. May. Kogler: You cut the environmental budget!]] We are here on a path which, in addition to stabilising the budget, we are also putting in place offensive measures in order to revive the economy. We have tied up a large package at government level to give such economic impulses: less bureaucracy, a small and medium-sized enterprise programme, a debureaucratisation for the very small ones. That is to say, these impulses, which we set specifically here, should lead us to get a little more growth than predicted. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I thank the House for its work in the committees. I would also like to thank the fact that you have given such importance to the impact targets behind these budgets. All the budget committees have discussed the impact objectives set by the departments. And I look forward to the suggestions that will then come out of the House to improve these targets. Then: You have to have goals, and according to these goals you can budget. In other words, the budgets must be aimed at achieving the objectives. And I am curious about what ideas will come from Parliament, from the Committee on Budgets and the budget service that the House is currently setting up. In all cases, the financial unit is ready to cooperate here with the High House and the Budget Service. However, we will not leave the consolidation path and the great reform package that we imposed on us in spring. That means: “Wish something!” just because elections are in front of the door, I’ll give him a rejection. The “desirable thing! ” is immeasurable, and so is the creativity. However, we must always try to generate stable finances through reforms and growth through offensive measures, not through new debt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e8547	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Worm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e8568	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Mrs. Volksanwalt Brinek! Ladies and gentlemen also on TV screens! I turn to another positive chapter, which is the women's budget. Despite consolidation efforts, consolidation measures have now succeeded for the second time in keeping the women's budget equally high. The Minister of Women also congratulates me on this! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This small but fine budget is mainly concerned with equal opportunities which are being forced here. There is also a great deal of work being done in the field of violence, for example, and we have succeeded in continuing to entrust all those centres with their tasks. So they have entrusted the calls for proposals that have passed well with international calls for proposals with this important task, namely the fight against domestic violence to continue the fight against violence against women. No woman from Lake Constance to Lake Neusiedler is rejected if she experiences violence in the family, and that is a good thing. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Another important point, also mentioned in the Coalition Convention, is the emergency home for forced women. It will now be opened in spring – and for this it is already given the cover. That's good. Here the joint procedure has now worked with the Minister of the Interior, and I am already looking forward to the opening so that these really poor women, who are kept like slaves, can be helped to create the conditions for this. As a third and important measure in the fight against violence against women, against domestic violence, the hotline that can be reached around the clock throughout Austria and can be selected everywhere, at the local rate. Another important point in the work of the Minister for Women is the support, the subsidisation of women's service facilities. These are low-ranking facilities for women in emergency situations, for women seeking advice, for those looking for advice, for facilities that are often in remote areas, such as East Tyrol, where we have been able to help, on the spot, to provide women with the necessary opportunities. Projects will continue to be subsidized which could not otherwise be supported because the money is not made available. Also an important educational work – and especially in the last few days the second part of this campaign has been presented – will continue, and you should perhaps make this known in your series: Genuine men, Dear Ladies and gentlemen, real men go to Karenz! And here we still need to catch up. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Here we should expand the Papa month so that children also have a second reference person, not only the mother or the grandmother, but that they also have the opportunity to find close relations with the father. This is something very important in the development of a child. [[Abg. Steibl: Three months are too little! They should have been there longer!]] Another important area, an important campaign was the pay calculator, the question of income transparency, so that women know what they are worth, what they can earn, what they should earn. And the evaluation of the work should also be important to us. Today, negotiations are again being held in relation to collective agreements – women for retail sale, which are particularly important. In this sector, where women in particular are active, the wage is blatantly lower than in technical professions, for example. That's not to be seen. This is where we need to continue. One last area, which is also important to me: Mrs Fekter has given great scope to the concept of the new budgetary reform. And here it is to be said that we have to look closely at the objectives of impact, i.e. at this opening balance and how we spend the money then: How does the money work, how does this issue affect between the sexes? Is there a gender equality effect here? – This is a very central issue, and that is the background of this bulky term ‘gener budgeting’. In each department, an effective objective must be to increase gender equality. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber.]] There are some areas, some resorts, which are very ambitious in their versions, others say rather lapidar: Compatibility between work and family. - But others take it more seriously. Controlling is also in place here. And that controlling is also used in this regard in the Federal Chancellery, that is important and that is good. In this sense, I would like to see even more ambitions regarding gender-righteous budgets, gender-rightful state budgets. In 2013 implementation is planned, and I wish we had a success report here in 2014, as in many other areas of this budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e8634	Next speaker: Mr Haubner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e8655	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Mr President-in-Office of the Council! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! We've heard it a few times today: Austria is better there! And if we say “better, ” we mean better. We do not need to hide the international comparison because we are at the top of Europe. We have received a lot of international recognition for our economic and financial policy – the Minister of Finance has already mentioned it – and are constantly confirmed on our way. We, who come from the economy, know that in addition to performance it is also about the attitude matter, a positive attitude and a good mood. And when we look at the facts in the international comparison, we see that we can speak of a positive situation in Austria. We have heard that Austria's debt is lower than in other EU countries, we are experiencing more growth than in the EU average. We have a triple A with a stable outlook, which the credit rating agency Fitch confirmed again last week. That is not a lot in Europe, ladies and gentlemen. We should see this as an award for our economy and for our package of measures in the government. We also record the lowest unemployment rate in Europe and are at the absolute top of the workforce. And I have to say thank you to our businesses, because I can say thank you to the companies that create jobs, namely the 29 000 industrial enterprises in Austria and the more than 200 000 small and medium-sized enterprises that have over 2 million people for the first time in the history of the Second Republic. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, even though the economy is currently a little agitated and, of course, the companies are also a little back on their expectations, the entrepreneurs are still working with optimism. This confidence of companies, their own strength and their competitiveness must be supported by policy. We have the task of being a positive companion here, and we should not always say anything bad. Mysticism – I don't want to quote anyone there – has never brought us further. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Another economically important aspect is the good relationship between employers and employees. The “EconomicsBlatt” presented a Gallup survey last week, where it is said that 70 percent of Austrians are satisfied with their jobs and that 80 percent estimate their operations in such a way that it will be successful in the near future. So when we summarize this, we can conclude as a conclusion: We are right in our actions, and it must continue to be our top goal to take the right structural measures so that we can keep our triple A rating and continue to secure our good employment. To do this, we need a consolidation of the budget. - That's what we do! We also need the decisive impetus for more growth and employment. – We have put them, and I am sure we are they will continue to sit. And, of course, we need additional reforms. We have heard it today, we will start with school administration, health and other areas. The fight for the best economic location in global competition is becoming more and more intense. We do not live on an island of the Blessed, ladies and gentlemen, we must fight for our top spot in Europe every day. That is why our economy is doing its best, and we will support it with the right measures so that we will continue to be at the forefront of Europe. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The 2013 budget provides a coordinated three-step approach: First: The trend in revenue is on the rise. Secondly, At the same time, our expenditure is falling. Thirdly, The reduction of public debt remains the command of the hour. The reduction of government debt to a zero deficit by 2016 is top priority. We need to see that we are setting the right impulse now. That seems very important to me. We must set the right impetus for job creation so that entrepreneurs are able to create it. The jobs are created by entrepreneurs, and there are young entrepreneurs in particular, because they are the employers of tomorrow. That is why we have launched a young business offensive, where Minister Fekter not only represents us internationally excellent, but also in Austria ensures that the money is properly used, which she knows best as an entrepreneur. With this young entrepreneurs' offensive, we set an impetus for the innovative pacemakers of the economy, the young economy, so that new jobs are created again for our Austrians. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that with this package of measures adopted in Laxenburg, the Federal Government has not only made sure that the budget is consolidated, but also that the right impetus for the economy in Austria and thus for the competitiveness of the Austrian economy and for the safeguarding of jobs is put in place. This is an essential point, under the motto “Successful is who implements”, an economic union motto. The Federal Government has made this motto its own. And we look forward to further cooperation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e8752	Next speaker: Deputy Grazauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e8774	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! For Mr Bundeskanzler, Mr Cap and Mr Krainer, it would be important once to go to the private sector to learn how to really manage. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I am also surprised by the statements made by Mr Kopf and by the representatives of the Chamber of Commerce, about the fact that one can be so side by side. This is a miracle, I would like to say, because Mr. Kopf was at Huber's company anyway and would therefore have to know how to deal with such a situation in the private sector, but unfortunately he has probably forgotten these things for a long time. Ladies and gentlemen, I am annoyed at what the government is doing here for the best. This superficial optimism is truly an expression for the population. The population is deliberately sold for stupid. Nothing goes further in this state: Termination is over debt, they rise by €21,000 per minute and €1.3 million per hour. We have a deficit of €11.1 billion this year, and for 2013 a deficit of €6.7 billion is forecast. This corresponds to the equivalent of 300 000 VW golf, so you could buy 300 000 VW golf. [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: That would be a traffic shock!]] A government debt of 235 billion is expected for 2013 – 75 percent of the Austrians' economic performance. In addition, the equivalent, Mr. Stummvoll: One million houses could be bought with it. That's a huge amount. People at home should know what we're talking about here. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Schickhofer.]] The real total debt, ladies and gentlemen – which is only half the truth – is 290 billion in 2013 at a GDP of 309 billion. This corresponds to a 90 percent debt. You have to imagine this: With 90 percent, this state is indebted! In practice, a total annual turnover of economic performance is due Austria. That's the most negative record we've ever had. And as a merchant, ladies and gentlemen, I also tell you about the ÖVP: This government is leading Austria into bankruptcy! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This is irresponsible, ladies and gentlemen – irresponsibly to the youth that this disaster has to do! €33,000 each youth is already involved in the debt backpack. I emphasize: 33,000 €! That's crazy! In addition to these debts, it is not to be ignored that there are 122 billions of liability risks. You have to know. We are in second place in the EU. I don't know if this is happening, because this is again about a lot of risk for taxpayers. You'd have to look at that more closely. The situation in state finances is as bad as ever before. The federal states also contribute to this, for these are the true rulers of this country. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Häupl and Pröll have achieved that from 2004 to 2013 the share of government revenue could be doubled from 7.17 billion to 14.6 billion € and 12.75 percent to 19.10 percent respectively. If this goes on, it will be incredibly difficult to put in place any further rehabilitation measures, as these people will insist on their rights. Yes, there are countries that are worse economically than Austria, but of course there are also many countries that have much better data than Austria. Yesterday I brought Sweden as an example and today I bring Switzerland. Ladies and gentlemen! Switzerland has a fair financial result, a figure of 2.2 billion Swiss francs. – So it is! And in Sweden, surpluses are made by 2%. In Austria, on the other hand, we have a minus of almost 3 percent. That's how it really looks with us! Real, large, sustainable reforms are essential, the President of the Court of Auditors said yesterday. I emphasize: Indispensable! But what's going to be done? – Unfortunately, God's nothing! Another reference to abroad: The Bayern, estimated at 8 million inhabitants, as we have in Austria, pay € 15 billion less taxes than the Austrians, and the Swisss pay less taxes by 20 billion than the Austrians. That's got to make you think! If you compare our state expenditure with that of Germany and see how far we are apart, you get the following picture: In 2010, the Germans spent 4.6% less on expenditure, estimated to be GDP. If you were to convert this to Austrian government expenditure, you could save €13.2 billion at the same level that you could achieve! That is why, ladies and gentlemen! Cut into the red-black administrative bacon – that would be quite, very important once! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mrs Federal Minister Fekter, not only talk about stable finances through reforms, but also about making them. It would have been a long time to act! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e8871	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Musiol. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e8893	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen! We not only hold the general debate on this issue, but also deal with many important institutions, control bodies, also Parliament, federal legislation, also the Constitutional Court, the Administrative Court, the Court of Auditors – whose representatives are here – and the People's Procuratorate. At first glance, these topics always seem quite brittle and dry. People don't know what this has to do with them, but these are very important institutions, important institutions that have a direct impact on individual citizens. I would like to explain this on the basis of two examples. The first example is the novelle of administrative jurisdiction, which we decided recently – a decades project, you have to say! State Secretary Ostermayer, who is now present here, has succeeded – and I would also like to mention this in praise – as all the parties have to bring to a table and put a good common innovation on the table, which we have been able to improve with our proposals. But, of course, this is not about the scaffolding, but at the moment we are negotiating the details, namely the right of organisation, the right of procedure. The question then becomes quite clear: Is it now with this novelle of administrative jurisdiction, where, ultimately, the issue of legal protection for each individual citizen and every individual citizen is about how they can defend themselves against administrative decisions, really done our legal protection requirements enough or not? In this respect, the original draft contained a number of points that we did not like. As the only part of the opinion process, we took part and delivered a very comprehensive opinion, and there was an essential point: If I file a complaint with the court, are the obstacles to what I have to write in it so low that I can do it myself, even if I have no Jus-studium, or are the obstacles so high that de facto there is a legal obligation, so that I actually need a legally informed person who can write it to me? It is because of our opinion, but not only ours, but also ours. others, in the second draft, on this issue, and it is now possible to assume that there is a good regulation in this regard. Wherever we are not yet satisfied, the issue of ‘removing effect’ and the question is: What can the administrative court decide at all? Does the administrative court decide for itself, or does it have to send the whole thing back to the authority? There is a field of tension, because a return to the authority means to play also that it must go back to the national leaders who are in some cases active, and that means delay again. That's what we're saying quite clearly: There must be the possibility for the courts to decide! The second example is the Court of Auditors. – At the Court of Auditors – an important control body, we have recently celebrated its anniversary – it is likely that not many citizens can see how important the Court of Auditors is for parliamentary control, for parliamentary work. In any case, he enjoys a high degree of trust. This clearly shows the confidence index, which is published regularly. Of course, we parliamentarians, who are very close to the Court of Auditors, get along with how important it is. In this context, I recall the last committee of inquiry, which was turned off by the major parties, the two government parties. For these, reports from the Court of Auditors, including those which were already very old, because they have shown maladministration for years, were also an essential basis for the investigation. However, information from the Court of Auditors was also invited, including those already retired from the Court of Auditors, because they were considered essential to the investigation committee's information. However, this important Court of Auditors will experience a massive financial bottleneck due to the 2013 budget presented, which will go so far as the President of the Court of Auditors has said in the Committee that the Court of Auditors will no longer be able to carry out its core tasks in full. – That is really scandalous! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] On the one hand, the two government parties turn off the investigation committee in order not to have to have any control over it, and on the other hand – that is the next step – they are going to take measures that will undermine the institutions that have to do the constitutional control of this country by turning their hands on the tap. I'm sure we won't be there. The last word has not yet been spoken. Yes, one could almost have the impression that the two major parties of this Court of Auditors have become too uncomfortable, not only because of the Committee of Inquiry, but also because of the many proposals made by it, such as the administrative reform, where absolutely nothing goes on. As has already been said, the Court of Auditors has made 599 proposals which, for example, concern education and health, or call for a slimmer administration. But these are not taken up, although this is provided for in the Government Agreement. Well, there's certainly not the last word spoken. Control needs more! In this context, we of the Greens have put in place an emergency defence measure, if we want to, by making a popular desire in the field of anti-corruption I am not sure that the Commission will be able to And it is also an essential basis for this to be allowed to work on the control bodies of this Parliament.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e8992	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Widmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e9022	Mr President. High house! It was no different to expect: A budget speech by the Minister of Finance and, in the Committee as well, only praise from the SPÖ and praise from the ÖVP, as if one had a black band in mind and not the courage to look into the truth. In contrast, ÖGB President Foglar, who according to an APA report says the following – I quote –: "Who thinks we are not affected by the problems in Greece, Spain, Italy, Portugal and other European countries, that is huge." Finally, Mr Foglar says: “It’s enough, this path is the wrong one, we need a quick change of course.” My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, what do I say? – You must finally start to stop the fine speech at the budget and to look into the facts! Mrs Finanzminister, the facts – I have already quoted them – speak a completely different language than you do when you talk about them. For example, if we look at the debt ratio, we see it rising every year. It also increases again this time, from 74.7 percent in 2012 to 75.4 percent of GDP in 2013. That's a plus of 0.7 percent. Or: With the tax and tax rate, we have an increase of 0.5 percent, an increase of 42.6 percent to 43.1 percent. That's what it says in your paper. Or: Unemployment rate increase from 4.4 percent to 4.8%. That's also a clear plus. We now have 230 000 unemployed. 66 000 people are in training. This results in almost 300,000 unemployed. This is a percentage of 6.1 percent that we have to take note of this. The problem is that young people and older workers are mainly affected, but there are no effective measures to stop this negative development. But what does the ÖVP do? – The ÖVP advertises land on land, land. She does good for the commuters and for the families, I have recently read in Upper Austria, although she is taxing them. The Economic Federation advertises: Tax relief, debureaucratisation. And what does this government do? [[Abg. Bucher: Exactly the opposite!]] – It increases taxes! She's doing the exact opposite! So stop telling people the untruth, because even your own documents prove the opposite! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] In other words, the debt ratio increases, the tax rate increases, the unemployment rate increases. There's only one thing left to me: Mr Leitl. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by I said it yesterday: Make good-quality political salaries! But in this data, you need to lower the political salaries, dear colleagues from the ÖVP and the SPÖ, and not increase by 1.8 percent, as you plan to do in the near future. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Austria is a good country. Austria has capable, diligent people – despite this federal government – but we finally have to free these people from the red and black shackles of bureaucracy, the party proporze, the party book, corruption. If we did, we would have a much better future. I am glad that this budget is the last one before the election, because it cannot continue. They only continue to write figures, but are not prepared to implement such reforms, which the President of the Court of Auditors has already repeatedly called for - there are enough documents to do so - and which the opposition has also agreed accordingly. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Book]] [[Abg. Pendl: Good thing we have such a good woman minister!]] Nothing happens at all. The only thing you do is debt, deficits and increases in taxes. When I think about the fact that a study of Synthesis – if you are talking about new jobs – confirms that 79 percent of newly created jobs in Austria go to foreign citizens, ladies and gentlemen, I ask myself: What remains for the Austrians? – You should also think about it. In other words, we need a real administrative and structural reform, we need a debureaucratisation of the funding jungle, in which €18.5 billion per year – you could certainly make a lot more efficient – and we need a tax reform that relieves the hardworking, the skilled, the middle class, the entrepreneurs. In addition, we need real future offensives, not just those on the paper you repeat and pray down. You know exactly what is left of the educational people's desire: almost nothing! We need appropriate money for science, for the environment, for the energy et cetera. I am already involved in the so-called competitiveness of Austria. If a World Bank study confirms that Austria is in place at 134 out of 183 countries on the topic “starting a business”, that is, to start a new business, then that’s not what I imagine. Perhaps that's enough for the ÖVP, but I think we need to be much better here. So you see: There's a lot to do. The little pot I have put in front of this is also a symbol of how to operate in Austria. [[The speaker points to the panel standing in front of him on the speaker's desk.]] Banks are paid for – €5.4 billion so far for bank rescue packages that are ultimately net-lost – you get it back to the euro save, you take it after the Greeks; but if an entrepreneur here in Austria creates jobs with shoes when he finances solar power when he does something good for the future, then you only throw it in front of his feet. [[Abg. Dr. Bartenstein: But at Stronach you also say that he is very..., although he creates jobs!]] Ladies and gentlemen! That's not the access we want. We don't want to. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] We want small businesses, one-person companies and SMEs to be properly supported. This Heini Staudinger, who will hold an event in Schrems at 7.30 p.m. tonight, has created 100 new jobs. You have to take note of this. [[Abg. Dr. Bartenstein: You should be Mr. Stronach...!]] He does not speculate internationally with money, he invests in value creation on the spot, and one has to support it – not the speculation banks we strictly reject. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, this is about EU contributions. You have announced on the part of the ÖVP that you will swing the Vetoceules. And now we want to see if this vetocule remains a rhetorical or becomes a fact. We therefore invite you to support the following request made by Mr Bucher and Mr Grosz: [[Quoted print version removed]] Dear colleagues from ÖVP and SPÖ, you have courage and not only swing the Vetoceules, but finally use them for the people of our country! [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign]]
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e9161	The application submitted is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e9228	Next speaker: Mr Hagen. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e9250	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! This budget has very interesting components. The staff of the President's Office has two additional planning posts compared with 2012 and thus increases to 81. We can now ask ourselves what the President-in-Office needs so much staff for. The contributions of the President of the Federal Republic of Germany are no longer shown in any additional terms. They were reported at €343,000 in 2012 – at the time with an increase of 7.5 percent. We don't know what's going on today. I'll let you know what to think of it. It is also striking that rental expenses at the Administrative Court have increased from € 477 738 for 2011 to € 554 000 in the coming year. I don't know what increased the rent. The same is true of the operating and business facilities of the Administrative Court: Compared to 131,676 € in 2011, it is already 364,000 € in 2013. That's almost triple. Ladies and gentlemen! I don't know – they use gold-plated chairs here, or how is that? However, I am particularly concerned about the savings made by the Court of Auditors. The President of the Court of Auditors can lead you properly. [[Abg. May. Prammer: Parliament is still much more angry about it!]] In my opinion, he will be disabled in his work. In principle, we are in favour of reasonable savings in the public sector, but where it is right and sensible. In our view, the 22 social security institutions can be grouped together, thus significantly reducing the annual administrative costs of more than €900 million in contributions that feed the management. The Court of Auditors does not understand these savings. It could well be believed that the reports of those responsible in the government are not really desirable and that a positive work of the Court of Auditors should therefore be hidden. The question is, why do you think so? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Pendl.]] Thus, the Court’s budget is reduced by € 257 000 according to the table, although the service providers’ contributions in 2013 have to be borne for the first time by the Court of Auditors itself. This then accounts for a further €600 000, so there is a total of €857,000 for the Court of Auditors. These savings, which must be made by the Court of Auditors by 2016, can only be made through cost-neutral personnel reduction of around 30 jobs, and this, although the legislator has given the Court of Auditors a wide range of additional tasks. These include the examination of communities from 10,000 inhabitants – formerly 20 000 inhabitants – the Media Transparency Act, cooperation in the control of ESM at EU level, the Party Finance Act, the control of gender budgeting, in addition to the review of agreed impact targets, such as the anchoring of cross-border cross-border audits, the provision of all reports on the homepage, the implementation of follow-up reviews on the ground, the increased consideration of the aspects of equality and the focus on reporting based on scientific developments. Ladies and gentlemen! How should the Court of Auditors be able to deal with and fulfil all these tasks if it is increasingly starved? It really gives the impression that these measures are intended to limit the control of the Court of Auditors. But for increasing the promotion of the party, shortly after new tax packages for the citizens – across all layers you have adopted them – you have just the money. Instead of control, promote your party funds. Ladies and gentlemen, show me backbone! Support the request of the Stronach team to take back the increase in the promotion of the party! [[Abg. Pendl: That must not be true at all!]] – That would be a correct approach, Mr President. To Mr Bundeskanzler – he is unfortunately no longer there, but you will certainly give it to him – and to his comment on the request concerning the withdrawal of the party promotion: You can judge him that pride comes before the case. [[Abg. Grosz: Here I have an application!]] Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP and the SPÖ! Show propensity and that you are really making politics in the interests of the citizens! [[Abg. Grosz: Mr Hagen, what about the amendment... by the Stronach team?]] We invite you to work in a reasonable and fair manner for Austria, for the citizens. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Pendl.]] I think that is why we are sitting here in Parliament, so we have been elected here, so we should bring the message of the citizens here to you. [[Abg. Grosz: What do you say about this amendment proposal? What do you say?]] [[Abg. Grosz: 2 million for the Stronach team! What do you say to that?]] And I think this is important, even though Mr Grosz is still yelling so loud. – You can then continue screaming in Graz. Maybe you'll cry. Ladies and gentlemen, that would be reasonable. Let us together make sound policies! We'll invite you to this! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e9367	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Strutz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e9417	Ladies and gentlemen! Our money for our people! [[Interlocutory calls from Deputies Mag. Schickhofer and Silhavy.]] – We are very different, Mrs Collaborative, from the Social Democrats. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If you look at this budget, you can see the hard-worked money of the Austrian taxpayers, and never in the history of the Second Republic have such large tax benefits been provided by the Austrians. Mrs Finanzminister is looking forward to more than €76 billion in tax revenue, almost €4 billion more than in the previous year, but who did? – The Austrians, on the one hand, through higher taxes, through higher taxes that you have imposed on them, and on the other through more work, through less wages. We Liberals, Mrs Collaborative, want this hard-working tax money to benefit Austrians, and not, as it is clear from this budget, in fact, to be sent most of the way to Brussels and from there to Portugal, to Greece, to Cyprus and to the Member States of the European Union. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] This budget, which we are supposed to decide here in these days, does not really describe the truth! In the coming weeks, Mrs Financiers will be concealing the fact that hundreds of millions more will be needed for Brussels over the next few months. Why? Because you agreed a day ago to give the Greeks two years more time for reforms. When the ESM decided, you said that the money would be repaid. - We know all these fairy tales. The fact is, there is a two-year delay in solving the problems, and I know when the two years are over, you'll be standing here again and saying you need a delay again. But they are not saying that this delay will actually cost the European Union €30 billion and that the share of Austria will again be hundreds of millions who will send you to Greece, which you send to the Pleite States, instead of using it for the Austrians, for our health system, for the education system, for those who can no longer meet the needs of daily life. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] Please look at the daily papers today, what is in them! ‘thousands in front of the cold’; Heating oil is 12 per cent more expensive; the price of district heating has increased by 10.7 per cent, with gas being 3.2 per cent. Thousands of Austrians Austrians can no longer afford a warm apartment in the next few weeks. Why? – Because you have increased the mineral oil tax! This is just an example of how money is actually spent wrong and badly. With a budget there are always winners and losers. On the winning side, we see Mrs. Finanzminister, who benefits from higher taxes, higher tax revenue – this money is sent to Greece – and we see the banks – the majority of this budget goes into the rehabilitation of banks, for speculators, for managers. A previous speaker from the Social Democrats said that income in Austria has improved. In reality, it is the top managers who get more money, from the association, from the OMV, from the close-to-state businesses. What kind of signal is that? On the loser side of this budget are the citizens with a higher tax burden that they have to bear, the families stand, the care, the socially weak, the students stand. We want the funds you transfer to Brussels that you give to Greece – and you leave us today in the dark about what your agreement to postpone Greece from having to pay back for two years will cost Austrian taxpayers again – so we want this money to be used for our people. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Wittmann.]] You want the opposite from the SPÖ and from the ÖVP, and this distinguishes us, Mrs Colleague!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e9521	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Herbs. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e9542	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! So in a single consideration of my previous speaker, I give him the right; he pointed out fundamental differences between social democracy and the FPÖ: We attach particular importance to this, Mr President, now and in the future. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I would like to focus briefly on the very delicate issues of party promotion, party transparency and political relations. Why is the importance of public party promotion so up-to-date? – Well, a millionaire has arrived and has now achieved a few politicians after horses and football, and this should remain an individual case. [[Abg. Booker: Have you already come up with it? But it took a long time!]] Therefore, if one imagines that there is no public support for parties, then pharmaceutical companies would also be engaged in a mercenary force. Well, there would be health policy, consumer protection indeed “love”! Or industry: What would that mean for workers' rights? Or, for example, the banks: Well, then we don't have a bank tax, ladies and gentlemen! At present, Raiffeisen is sending – or at least one tries – to buy a People's Survey, especially in the service of a party that is renouncing itself to direct democracy on the other hand. So there are contradictions here, and it is therefore important that we have a genuinely functioning and sufficient public party support. To the Transparency Act, to the Party Act: The goal is clear, in itself it is to fight crime – for example, “part of the game” is generally known, or the BZÖ, as a party at all bought by Telekom, or Rumpold with Eurofighter, or the whole process with the FPÖ and street personally. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] This is the objective of the Transparency Act, but it cannot be that local associations, small local parties, associations of nearby organizations, when they organise a tombola or ball, are faced with all too big administrative problems. [[Abg. New builder: You can perform as a Santa Claus at Christmas and tell the children something! These are fairy tales!]] My prognosis and also my warnings about this were not so wrong. I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that we will need a bagatoll border. We can then talk about whether the annual volume of these associations should be €3 500 or €5 000, but we will need a novel or a directive. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ing. Höbart.]] I have already discussed this with the President of the Court of Auditors. It will be very much at the Senate, which is now forming in the Federal Chancellery. The auditors will find this out accordingly, and it is open and honest to say: We need to adapt a little quickly in the Party Law – and the better, the better. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Ing. Höbart.]] For policy-makers according to performance: This sounds good for the first time, but is not intended to end, because there are completely different requirements for opposition and government; or for example in municipalities: Is it an industrial community, is it a so-called sleep community? - You can't do that! I want to break a lance, ladies and gentlemen, in particular for Community policy. There is a lack of appreciation for this important activity in certain areas, and there is also a need for signals and symbols. Zero-paid rounds over years – I am once with Mr Kogler – will ultimately bring zeros into politics. The FPÖ was for it first, then against it. At Strache I have a little bit of a Déjà-vu experience with regard to Haider: I can well remember how this one then announced the 60 000 schilling rule and then jumped into the Porsche in the designer clothes. And this alleged abstinence of the FPÖ, well, has cost the taxpayer, as we now know, billions, ladies and gentlemen, and a corruption slave of FPÖ, BZÖ, FPK and so on. [[Abg. Pendl: Listen, hear!]] That means preaching water, but sluggishing champagne is obviously the method there. Ladies and gentlemen! We have repeatedly been exposed to the accusation that we are evaluating the political incomes themselves. There we are in a certain dilemma, because this is not at all much different because it is legal provisions. But let’s see what the chief editors of important daily newspapers mean, for example, Mr. Peoples in the “Standard”: “() This professional group also has the right to adequate payment and from time to time deserves an adjustment.” In the newspaper “Neuees Volksblatt”, Michael Kaltenberger writes: “ () Of course, you have to pay them properly, because otherwise politics in the match with the economy has no chance for good personnel at all.” Or in the “Wiener Zeitung”, Mr Christian Ortner: “Whoever, on the other hand, is doing considerable work in politics should also be well rewarded and should not be allowed to miss out on a salary adjustment for six years now.” Or the „Salzburger Nachrichten“, Mr. Chief Editor Koller: “Poverty vows unwanted. Politics costs money. And: Policymakers should earn decently.” Or, another example, “The Press”, Rainer Nowak: ‘Permanent frozen political salaries are a declaration of bankruptcy.’ Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that we should not react populistly, as the individual does, first and foremost the FPÖ. And it's probably the same sentence: If you pay peanuts, you get Monkeys! So if you don't pay properly, you won't get any performance.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e9637	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Schwentner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e9659	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Mr State Secretary! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Dear spectators! I would like to refer to the area mentioned only once, the women's resort, and the not so generous budget available to the women's resort, namely the slightly more than €10 million, but also the positive that you mentioned, Mrs Worm, namely that the intervention agencies are assured with a new funding model that it is quite, very important that no woman and no child who is affected by violence or violence can be dissociated and that there are sufficient resources and that they are still secured. [[Congratulation with greens and SPÖ.]] So far to praise. – We know that the women’s resort does not necessarily have an adequate budget available. You have also mentioned the women's counsellors, and especially at the low-level institutions, especially in this area, namely women's and girls' counseling centres, where you can go directly and immediately, get advice, are supported, especially there it does not look so rosy, because they do not have any additional resources. And that actually means, as for the entire budget available to the department, that this is simply less valuable in the event of progressive inflation. Especially these facilities, which are down-to-earth and important for women and girls, may not have enough money at their disposal. We have at our disposal 1,24 € per woman for advice in Austria – if you change this – for advice. This is perhaps just a minute's advice – just to show you how little money it is and under what precarious conditions the organizations and associations are on the road, which are about direct advice for women, especially those that are chronically underfinanced. I would also like to mention – I am glad that you are here, Mrs Finanzminister – Gender Bud-getting. I am very sorry that you are today mentioning the objectives of impact at the meetings of the Committee on Budgets – yes! – were really thoroughly discussed, in your budget speech not once have mentioned a very important goal of impact, namely that of Gender Budgeting. This is new, it has constitutional rank, it is binding from next year, 2013, and must occur in every venue. That you don't mention this, I'm sorry and I hope I won't say anything about how serious it is how little you take it seriously. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Worm.]] I would like you to take it into account more often. [[Congratulation with greens and SPÖ.]] Perhaps it also shows that you do not look at how gender budgeting is implemented. It is indeed good that it is so far, but we also know that for some it is still a great incentive and that many cannot start with it – exactly, Mrs Colleague – and you should see that there are not many individual measures taking place, but that there is a central point that makes it binding. [[towards the freedom of movement]] This place is missing, we need it in order to ensure that it is not flickwork, where there is a bit of gender budgeting and there are some measures there. This required a central position. I know that you cannot do this, Mrs Frauenminister, but you, Mrs Finanzminister, should look at the fact that this central body we are missing is also being introduced. In this context, I would like to mention the Court of Auditors, Mr President. I would like to mention positively that you are creating a gender guide. – He just doesn't listen to me if I already mention him praisefully. [[Abg. Grosz: It's multitasking!]] They have also undertaken to find out the impact of the distribution of public funds on men and women. This is very important and very good. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Another word on the equal treatment prosecutions and on a point that should have happened next week in the equal treatment committee, namely on the levelling up: The equal treatment attorneys, we discussed it in committee, lack of money. They would also be missing if they were to do more of the work we want them to do. But this is obviously prevented by the EIA, namely that access to goods and services takes into account all grounds for discrimination, namely age, gender, religious background. We know that people who are looking for housing are being rejected every day because they are different origins. To prevent that would mean this levelling up. I find it very unfortunate that you are pressing around there and not having the courage to finally implement this levelling up with us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e9722	Next speaker: Mr Dkfm. Dr. stupid. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e9744	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Dear friends here in the High House! I have been listening to this budget debate for three hours now and must say: no surprise! [[Abg. Grosz: You weren't there half! The chair was lost!]] As in any other country in the world, the opposition to the government's budget does not leave a good hair! [[Abg. Grosz: But you weren't there!]] This is so in every parliament in the world, ladies and gentlemen, and is no surprise. However, I would have liked to have a more differentiated discussion. If you look a little beyond the edge of the plate and get a little bit involved in the fact that a small country with a 60 percent export ratio cannot completely decouple from international development, and if you see what sequence of crises we have – global financial crisis, economic crisis, banking crisis, confidence crisis, sovereign debt crisis – then you have to say that this must, of course, also have an impact on the government budget. [[Abg. Grosz: But there were no budget debates in the Parliament restaurant!]] [[Abg. Bucher: Is everything a good business for the taxpayer!]] I don't need any quotations from any articles or studies, I'm satisfied with the naked facts and facts: Whether we look at economic indicators, budget figures, labour market indicators, we are better in all areas than most of the European Union and the euro area. We are better in the field of growth. The euro-states will have a slight recession this year, and we still have a – albeit modest – economic growth. As far as the labour market is concerned, it is known that: We have the best labour market data. Whether unemployment or youth unemployment is a matter for us, we are very good at it. Let's look at the budget figures: The vast majority of European countries have greater deficits and a higher level of indebtedness than we do. The Federal Chancellor has already mentioned this today: A few years ago, we had dreamt of paying only 1.77 percent for ten years of government bonds! We dreamed of it! – This is the confidence of financial markets in our country and also in our government policy, ladies and gentlemen. You have to say that too, because these are the naked facts and facts, and they speak, I think, for themselves. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Of course, that's what I'm saying quite openly, not just that. Merit by the government. It is primarily the people in our country who are diligent, committed, motivated. But the government and politics create the conditions, that is what we have to say. This government has been pursuing a clear course with the majority of parliament for years, based on three pillars: first budget consolidation, second structural reforms and third impetus for growth and employment. To consolidate the budget, I only say the words: Indebtedness, Fiscal Pact, new federal budgetary law, budgetary discipline. On the structural reforms: What we did in spring, Stability Law 1, Stability Law 2, Structural Reforms in the fields of pensions, health, administration, ÖBB, must first imitate us. And to the impulses for growth and employment: in a package of 27 billion, spring, stability law 1 and stability law 2, 6.5 billion for growth and employment in the future areas of education, research, innovation, infrastructure. Ladies and gentlemen, this cannot be discussed away. I am already clear – once again –: In no country in the world does the opposition leave a good hair on the government's budget policy, but I think you should look a little beyond the edge of the plate. I hope that my follow-up speaker, Mr Scheibner, will perhaps discuss a little more differentiated – I very much appreciate him. So I am in great expectation that Mr Scheibner may also say that the government is really making this or that better than many other countries in the world.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e9826	Next speaker: Mr Scheibner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e9849	As a teacher and schoolmaster, my previous speaker has great expectations in my speech. – Mr Commissioner, yes, in Austria, the situation is much better than in many other countries in the world, in which we agree, but we do not want to discuss at this level, but we have to start from our point of view. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bucher.]] We want to address the problems in our country and get better. This is not oppositional humor, but a response to problems and the attempt to find solutions. You have to give us the right that unfortunately there has not happened much in the last four or five years or at least could have been much more if we had a government that says: Yes, we are trying to discuss hard, but then to present common solutions! But that did not happen – you nod. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] You don't need an opposition to hold this here, because that's what you're admitting. That's the difficulty. - I'm telling you, you have to look over the edge of the plate. But then you should not be content to present a budget in a kind of statistical manner here and to discuss only a little further. Mr President, I should like to ask the question: Why don't we discuss – beyond the edge of the plate – how to really develop a reasonable new tax system? We have made a proposal from the BZÖ with our Fair Tax system adapted to the Flat Tax; a simple system with clear, lowered tax rates, where everyone knows and where one does not think about how to get more money into the budget via higher taxes and taxes, but, vice versa, about whether one can create more purchasing power through lowered tax rates, even by promoting the economy, creating more jobs and achieving more tax revenues through this detour despite reduced tax rates, which is back in place to guarantee our social system. That would be an interesting over-the-counter-rand view. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Or: Is it really useful to finance our social system, our health system by increasing taxes and contributions, increasing self-sufficiency? Shouldn't you look at the edge of the plate, as you demanded, how recently our Clubobmann Bucher suggested, for example, to invest in prevention? Should those people who, together with their doctor, set up a programme to stay healthy be given a bonus to their social security contributions because they will then save thousands of euros in health costs? The health insurance companies have just said that they don't do this because it costs too much now. – This is not the over-de-counter-rand-blicking you require. I would like to ask you whether these proposals, which we have tabled, are not reasonable, with administrative savings, social security mergers, et cetera. These are the topics we need to talk about. Or: Administration. I say this again every time, and there are even proposals from the Federal Government – you said not to mean everything bad; not at all, there is. Minister Schmied, for example, has presented a proposal concerning school administration, namely a reduction by an administrative level – very useful. Would we have a majority? – But it does not come into the house as a template, as there seem to be some problems there. The President of the Court of Auditors has submitted almost 600 proposals for solutions. We have set up a subcommittee on administrative reform, many of these reasonable proposals have been discussed, but suddenly this subcommittee has also been sent because there was nothing to agree on. Mr President, I should like to thank you for your support. In connection with the European Union, it would be interesting to think not only in these large units. They say that agriculture is important and, as small Austria, we now have to try to get agricultural lobbys in the European Union to promote and support our small-structured agriculture. I think it would be easier and better – looking at the edge of the plate – to say: No, we create more flexibility by not increasing our contributions to Brussels – as is now the case with the discount that is to be removed – but by reducing it, so that we are more flexible again and can better support our organic farmers, our miners, who really produce quality, which is nowhere else available at national level. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Mr President, my speaking time is unfortunately over. I have tried to bring a few examples and show that there is an opposition here with us, with which you can discuss all these things beyond the edge of the plate. But you must also have people in your own government who are willing to do so.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e9935	Next speaker: Mr Pendl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e9956	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen. High house! – [[Abg. Grosz: “Thank you! ”]] This is what we are always doing with the budget debates, Mr President, that we thank ourselves. We are now not only in a general debate, but we are also discussing the Supreme Institutions. Let me therefore make a few comments on the federal legislation. It would also be good for you to thank the parliamentary staff and the staff of the Parliamentary Directorate very much for the work done, which I am doing. Too often we see this as a matter of course. [[General condolences.]] Mr Hagen, in the past we were of one opinion on many issues, but the start of your team – what is it called? –, the Stronach team, was not beautiful. You criticise the debt from here, but on the other hand you have done everything to quickly slip under the club coat, which costs 2 million who are not budgeted. - Only by knowing what we're talking about. Preaching water and drinking wine, ladies and gentlemen, we can all do that. When we look at the budget of the House – with all our understanding for all the other institutions – and even if we jointly confess that this is the hort of democracy, as it is often formulated, we note that it is in the dark. And then you can ask, if you want, for a few parallel committees – I have nothing against it – but what this means by the effects, in terms of premises, resources, effort, personnel, you also have to say. Last summer we had a hard discussion and we agreed that in the interests of the staff, we could create a little air that they could take at least a vacation. But even in this regard, it was then polemized and pretended as if we wanted to turn something off. The staff were already on duty around the clock. Ladies and gentlemen! We as Parliament must have enough self-confidence and say what we need. And I think at least there we should bring together a consensus. I am not talking about building now, but only about the fact that every committee we are setting up in addition is about the effects – and you all know – of enormous costs and enormous burden on staff. We have also adopted a new budgetary law here. We know, we were all there at the time when it was decided. It is internationally recognized, everyone looks at it, but it also means more work here in the house. We knew and discussed this from the first second. Budgetary impact up to the hour: none! – That so that we can discuss honestly and objectively. Changes in EU materials mean much more work here in the house, both more work on property and more personnel. Effect or precipitation: null. Ladies and gentlemen! If we confess to parliamentarianism – and I always assume that we are all doing so – then we should see that we also find the appropriate framework conditions here, on the one hand the Members and their employees – I remember that we have already had a good idea about it; remember, Günter – and on the other hand also the staff of the Parliamentary Directorate, up to the resources we need in the field, because this is quite simply part of a modern parliamentaryism. This is not about any political group, but about our Parliament, about our working conditions, about a self-confident parliamentaryism. And I think we should do this together.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e10002	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Stefan. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e10023	Mr President. Ladies Federal Minister! Dear Mrs. Volksanstalt! President of the Court of Auditors! Yes, I intend to speak specifically about the Supreme Institutions. Of course, it is always interesting to address the previous speakers here. Just one comment I must already allow myself to join my colleague Herbs, who unfortunately is not here and who has spoken about the champagne loop: Of course, a SPÖ chairman immediately arrives, who, together with foreign Heads of State and Government, launched champagne in 2000, insisting that sanctions be imposed on Austria. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This is champagne... [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: This is unworthy of a notary!]] It is indeed unworthy of a SPÖ-Obmann! You're perfectly right. Especially when we talk about patriotism, we need to look at Austria and so on. Then it's absolutely unworthy, you're perfectly right. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I really wanted to say something positive. I am talking about the Constitutional Court, the Administrative Court and the People's Procuratorate. There are positive developments, you have to acknowledge that too. First of all, the Constitutional Court has a very acceptable period of procedure, on average, of eight months. This is also very good in international comparison. The administrative court is here far behind and on average has a procedure duration of 23 months, but still there seems to be a calming down because now the asylum proceedings are landing at the asylum court, which, in turn, acts very well. So there are very positive developments here. I would also like to point out that there is a very constructive working environment in the Constitutional Committee, where these issues are dealt with, which is why we really go a little further and we can also bring in our ideas. There is, for example, an essential point that we have repeatedly called for, the meritorical decision at the Administrative Court; that is, that he can decide for himself in the matter and not just refer it back. This is now being implemented – an old demand of the FPÖ! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We have also brought into the discussion that there is a possibility of making a complaint to the Constitutional Court in court proceedings if one considers that a constitutional law is being applied. This too is now being implemented – also one of the demands of the FPÖ and also very pleased that this is possible. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] A third point that we have put into the debate, and which I also very much hope that it will be implemented, is the possibility to examine state agreements before they are decided by Parliament or ratified by the Federal President. This is a very essential point when we look at the debate on ESM/Fiscal Pact, where in Austria there is only the possibility to refer to the Constitutional Court, which may then find that there is a constitutional illegality. Then what are we doing? – Then we have a ratified state agreement, are bound outside, and we cannot apply it internally! That is a completely absurd situation – therefore, this request from us and therefore also the hope that the other parties will join us. Last: People's Procuratorate. The People's Procuratorate is also clearly a success model; one can see how it is adopted in the population. We have taken part in the new enlargement of the public prosecutor's office, which is that it can now also examine measures to withdraw freedom in Austria. We think it makes great sense that this is located there. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] What we cannot understand, however, is why it is not possible to extend the public prosecutor's jurisdiction to the same extent as that of the Court of Auditors. That's what we're talking about. There have been about a hundred outlays over the last 20 years, which are very important where the administration and the economy really are concerned, and here there is no audit competence of the public prosecutor's office. This is a gap that the People's Procuratorate has been pointing to for almost 20 years. Again and again, there are concurrences, even by individual members of the government parties, but it is not implemented. Therefore, to wake up here again, I make the corresponding request, so to speak, in the 20th century. Year of criticism. I would therefore like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I hope for your support.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e10110	The application submitted shall be negotiated. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e10180	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Gerstl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e10201	Mr President. Ladies Federal Minister! Mr President-in-Office of the Council! Mrs. Volksanwaltin! The entire administration receives less money – this is a part of this restructuring budget – and at the same time the appropriate measures are put in place wherever the investment is necessary. I would therefore like to start by thanking particularly those who also allow this budget to be managed by our Republic, which has contributed to the implementation of the measures we are taking today. These are our officials. A thank you to all our officials who do not have to spend the next two years Inflation paid off! Thank you to our officials who do not stop working for this country despite this situation! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would also like to express my special thanks for the form of cooperation we have in the Constitutional Committee, if we now turn to the Chapters of the Supreme Institutions and the Federal Chancellor's Office. I would like to make a very clear distinction from some of the previous speakers and to express to the listeners that a lot of constructive work is being done in this House. I would particularly like to thank the constitutional speakers, my colleague, Mr Wittmann, also my colleague Stefan, my previous speaker, Mrs Musiol and Mr Scheibner. [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. Ursula Haubner.]] It is true that because of the boulevard media, many may no longer know that constructive work is being done here. In this committee, together with Mr Ostermayer, who I would also like to mention here, we have succeeded in adopting many proposals unanimously in this House. It has already been mentioned here the administrative jurisdiction which has been presented by many experts in this country quite consciously as the largest constitutional reform in the Second Republic. For this largest constitutional reform in the Second Republic, the officials of the Federal Chancellery prepared this last weekend, namely procedural law. [[The speaker keeps a convoy up to date.]] This is not a matter of course, and many are probably not expected to do so much work here. That is why I would like to extend a very special thanks also to the staff of the Constitutional Service, to the staff of the Cabinet of Secretary of State Ostermayer and to Vice-Cancecian Spindelegger, who have made it possible for this to be decided in the Government on Tuesday and now come to the House, and to say a warm thank you! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we have recently decided on these administrative reform measures, among other things: increased opportunities for inter-communal cooperation in municipal cooperation, by enabling the communities to work together through extended possibilities of community associations, thus enabling synergies and savings. In the field of public prosecutorry, we have made this House a human rights house of the Republic by implementing the UN Protocol against Torture and Humiliating Treatment, OPCAT. ==References== In July, this House of Human Rights is now really active in the People's Procuratorate. We have abolished some 120 appeals and special authorities with the administrative jurisdiction novelle and replaced them with eleven administrative courts, namely in each federal state one and two at the federal level. Ladies and gentlemen! This project is probably the most important constitutional change in the Second Republic after accession to the EU. We thus ensure a slim structure. We ensure clarity; people know where they can complain in future in administrative matters. We create synergies and improvements for any authority that will now be less active. We reduce the duration of proceedings by administrative courts to an average of three to six months. The highest courts can again rely on their core functions, protection of the Consistency and fundamental rights as well as respect for the uniformity of the law. Ladies and gentlemen! With these laws we create independent decisions for citizens. Legal protection is improved, independent judges are increasingly used. We secure the rule of law and thus create an important step towards objectivity, transparency and objectivity.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e10292	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Dr. Zinggl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e10313	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Mrs. Volksanwaltin! Ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to say a few words about the public prosecutor's office. The tasks – we have now heard it twice – were significantly expanded this year with OPCAT facilities. It is about the preventive observation of institutions that hold people in danger of dealing with them inhumanely. It is clear that this enormous expansion of the public prosecutor's duties has also resulted in a corresponding increase in the budget. However, this increase has not been quite understandable for us; it is now less about the absolute amount, but about how it was acted. I have already mentioned it in the Committee: In 2012, we had an increase of €6 million to €7 million in a semi-annual activity – the OPCAT facilities have been in place since summer – and we now, in 2013, have an increase of €6 million to €10 million in total employment of this facility. It's already a thumb-time-pi financing. We then consider together in the Committee on Budgets how this can be achieved, but it is no one from the government here. I'm already seeing a big gap. On the one hand, we should be aware of the concerns and wishes we have in the Committee on Budgetary Negotiations. Also on the part of the People's Procuratorate, we are told about one or another of our wishes, for example, when Volksanwalt Kostelka says that he only comes out with this amount until 2014. So we regret each other without anyone hearing from those responsible for the budget, namely anyone from the government, because they were not there and never were there. This is a gap, and I would ask that we look at it together once, otherwise this Budget Committee, as far as the public prosecutors are concerned, is neither efficient nor economical. What does not cost any extra money – Mr Stefan has already mentioned it – would be the extension of the public prosecutor's competences to the distributed institutions: The content of a request from the Greens from 2011, which is now also before us as a resolution by the FPÖ. We are already wondering why this enlargement does not come about, because it would be efficient and economical and would, above all, satisfy and protect all those who have complaints to the distributed institutions. If we only think that, for example, by the time the public prosecutors were excluded, for example, it is very likely that they could make complaints to the public prosecutors over and over again and that the administrative system was improved, then we have either no complaints since this exclusion or no complaints at all. more – what I can hardly believe – or no way to complain about what is actually so. I think it would be right in the sense of a developed democracy to transfer these test competences to the public prosecutors as soon as possible. That is why we will join this motion for a resolution. As I said, it costs nothing and would be worth a lot! What would cost nothing and would be worth much: if the committees were at least public in connection with all the interests of the public prosecutor. There would be nothing against it, I believe, and it would also be of great benefit if all the ministers concerned were present at these committee meetings. Because only then is there a chance that something will continue to improve. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e10358	Next speaker: Mr Wittmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e10380	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors. Dear Mrs. Volksanstalt! High house! First of all, at the Federal Chancellor's Office, starting with the Federal Chancellor's Office: I think the Federal Chancellery is exemplary in the field of gender budgeting. There has been a special emphasis here on the distribution of public funds also with regard to women and men. The women's budget in the Federal Chancellery has not been shortened. The national budget in the Federal Chancellery has also not been shortened. These are the essential cornerstones. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This brings me to the main tasks and the main reform projects of the Federal Chancellery or to what is managed by the Federal Chancellery: There is clearly the national administrative jurisdiction, as some colleagues have already discussed it. There is a start-up financing of €4 million in the Federal Chancellery. I think we have found an excellent solution to this problem here. We have been raised to international standards in the area of legal protection. It is only judges in administrative matters in the future. We abolished 120 special authorities, summarized in nine plus two administrative courts: nine national administrative courts and two Federal Administrative Courts. This is an administrative reform, as it has not taken place since the Second World War in Austria, and a complete reorganisation of the administrative decision-making bodies! Mr Stefan said that I would also like to thank you: We have a very constructive climate in the Constitutional Committee. We have already implemented 16 projects in this legislative period! This is all the more important than the two government parties do not have a constitutional majority. As many projects, as they were made from 1945 to 1962, in 17 years, we have been able to implement in four years, including as large pieces as Parliament's involvement in Europe's issues or in national administrative courts, which is quite enormous, politically difficult matters. In the field of the national administrative courts - perhaps still very briefly - synergies are probably only to be noted in a few years, when these 120 authorities, the overheads, are combined into these national administrative courts. ................................................................................................................................................................ I think it's a budget that can be shown. A word to the previous speakers: Mr Hagen mentioned the office of President of the Council for two additional posts. . You know that we talked about it in committee. The three posts of the Federal Army, which are available to the Federal President as adjutant, are no longer budgeted at the Federal Army, but in the presidential office. A post was actually saved in the office of Presidential Office.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e10437	Next speaker: Mrs Schenk. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e10458	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Mr President-in-Office of the Council! Mrs. Volksanwaltin! I would like to address the issues of women's budget and the Court of Auditors. It has already been mentioned: The women's budget has remained the same with €10 million. It is relatively small, the Minister has little room for action with this budget. The main focus – the objectives of the action – is on the protection of violence, the prevention of violence, the intervention agencies against violence against women. Together with the Minister of the Interior, I think you have a budget of € 6.6 million, because it is also anchored in the Ministry of the Interior and the Internal Affairs budget. But I am of the opinion – and I may also want to go in a slightly different direction here – that together we should really try to improve the framework conditions for women, so that the issue of violence may also be pushed back. Because the more independent women they are, the more they earn, the less, I think, there are violent situations in the family. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] These conditions – Mrs Minister, I am speaking to you It's not your commitment, it's just, it's not going to happen to me! In your speech, you have already said that the social partners are required. Well, now this government period is soon over: There is still no legal minimum wage; the poorly paid women's professions, especially in the social field, are not up-to-date. You also said in the Committee that there is no money available for such campaigns to make the profession more attractive to men. On the other hand, however, I would like to address the campaign that is now under way and presented: ‘Real men go to Karenz’. But here we have to say that there is also a lack of framework conditions: in terms of the protection of dismissal, in terms of the protection of redundancies, which must first be made for men, because there is a need to create the legal framework for this in order to be able to bring more men into Karenz, ladies and gentlemen, too! The measures ‘50 plus’ have already been addressed. You have informed us in the committee that Minister Hundstorfer should or has become active in this area, but this has been enshrined in the 2008 government programme, but there is very little on the table to date. I would like to mention positively that the emergency home for forced married people will now be ready for reference with a few years' delay in March, April, May next year. You agreed with Mrs. Minister, the object is selected, it is now being adapted and renovated. You can be excited when it will finally be that far. But it has already been promised, it is, I believe, on track, and I would also like to mention that positively. [[Congratulations with BZÖ and SPÖ.]] I would now like to make a brief comment on the Court of Auditors budget. The Court of Auditors – and I believe it is not necessary to repeat this once again – is doing good, important work for us, for Parliament, for taxpayers, because it is about tax money, whose appropriate use is examined. It is now true that the Court of Auditors lacks €3.6 million by 2016, and if it lacks this money, it can no longer carry out the core tasks to the fullest extent and to the usual extent with the usual quality – I say now. That is what the President of the Court of Auditors has told us in committee. He also addressed the Minister of Finance in writing and informed her that this was no longer possible. He was not heard there, it was ignored, it did not find itself in the budget either. The Court of Auditors is getting more and more tasks. Only two years ago, on the initiative of the BZÖ, did we pass a law that the Court of Auditors could also examine communities of less than 20 000 inhabitants. Our request was even further, namely that it be able to examine communities of less than 10,000 inhabitants, i.e. all communities, because, above all in many small communities, there is a high level of overindebtedness due to speculation or financial meddling. The Court of Auditors also has to examine the media transparency law, the party law has to be examined, and the new budgetary reform is in addition. So, in short, He gets more and more tasks, but has less and less money at his disposal; 3.6 million € by 2016 or 30 planning posts. We believe that the Court of Auditors must be worth something and that there must be changes here. I would also like to say – although I do not want to play out against each other in the Court of Auditors and public prosecutors – that the Public Prosecutor's Office for Human Rights Monitoring and the Human Rights Advisory Board, which it has received from the BMI, receives additional funding of €2.9 million. So why this is not possible at the Court of Auditors, I do not know now, but perhaps this can still be answered today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e10532	Next speaker: Mrs Schittenhelm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e10553	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! We have heard today that we have a very high employment in the country – thank God! – yes, the highest employment at all, and I would like to address it a little bit. We have a total employment rate of 75.3 percent for 15- to 64-year-old citizens. Of these 81% were male and 69.5% were female. This means that 2.3 million men are in employment and more than two million are women. That means, however, that we women contribute a large part to economic stability in this country and that we help women a significant part of social security in our country, apart from the great benefits that are provided in family work or also in the various honorary offices that women practice. We must say a warm thank you to all those women who are involved and active in these areas. [[Accompaniment with ÖVP and SPÖ as well as the abg. Gartelgruber.]] Therefore, it is probably the minimum that the gender budgeting is actually implemented, and this is also done in the various departments. Mrs. Heinisch-Hosek has already had a very good eye on the fact that the National Plan, by the NAP, naturally observes whether the individual departments also implement these objectives. We know that each department has five operational objectives and one of them must be a gender budgeting target that will be implemented. I'm just taking out the business group. Here there is the gender budget to promote women, a management programme “future women”, which is very well accepted. In the agricultural sector, gender budgeting targets for women in agriculture and forestry and water management have also been set for rural areas by Minister Berlakovich. However, in the field of health, I did not see any approaches to the gender medicine for the 2013 budget. I do not know why there is no single budgetary approach in the area of gender medicine, although we need it so much for women's health. Our Federal Minister Hanni Mikl- Leitner has also set the gender targets in the BMI. I call only a few – they have already been mentioned today – for example, protection against violence, of course against women, minors and also seniors, for there is an increased incidence of violence on elderly women. Here, too, I would like to go a little further, ladies and gentlemen: In 2011 – it has already been addressed – about 30,000 relationship states were practiced, and each third victim is attacked in its own four walls. That's got to give us some thought. What's that about? Mr Haubner has already mentioned this. So where did you get away from? Where is there protection for women and children? They fled to the women's homes, and these - I know that from the Frauenhaus in Mistelbach in Lower Austria - have a special task, a special responsibility. Here, too, I am very grateful to Mrs. Heinisch-Hosek, but also to Hanni Mikl-Leiter for the fact that these women's houses and the people who work there are supported accordingly in her work. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! A budget approach “woman” as such – we have already heard it today – with € 10.15 million is not a big one, but if I compare it with my community – the municipality of Bisamberg, more than 5,000 inhabitants, my budget has just € 10 million, and we have achieved the entire infrastructure, kindergarten to canal, street, everything – it is a budget that can be seen, and I am pleased that it has succeeded in keeping it. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] That is to say, the actual budget approach “Women” is of course supporting the women’s services, women’s emergency telephone facilities, and non-violent centres. Similarly, awareness-raising and information are very important points. I'm here with the Federal Minister. We need to pass on the information. It does not help if we pass laws, and the people, especially the women, cannot understand them. For me personally, of course, it would be best not to discuss any more women's budget, because that would mean equal rights, equal treatment has already taken place and is already lived in all social areas – at work, in the family and, of course, in society. The fact is that this is not the case, and the fact is that we need this women budget, even if it is only € 10.15 million, urgently so that we can: the needs of women can be met a little.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e10631	Next speaker: Mr Zanger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e10653	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Before I made my actual statement, I would like to welcome the seniors from Salzburg, at the head of Dr. Erwin Tiefenbacher, who are visiting us here in Parliament today. Welcome! [[It was in favour of the FPÖ as well as of representatives of SPÖ, ÖVP and BZÖ.]] They come at a good time, because this federal government is responsible for increasing your pensions by only 1.8 percent, which is 1 percent below inflation. A warm thank you to red and black from this place! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But now we want to devote ourselves to an important chapter in the budget. There is a great deal of agreement on the fact that the Court of Auditors is an important element for us in Parliament, for the parliamentarians, for the National Council, for control, especially because it is based on its examinations that it has potential to save or save everything in this Republic, and that it could perhaps be used in other channels, so that even our people would have some of it. The Court of Auditors is, moreover, the only institution in our country to count on itself, but only if the recommendations made by the Court of Auditors and the potential I have addressed would also be raised and implemented. Now this is the core task of a control body – in private companies it is no different; each company has a controlling department to achieve precisely these effects – but now these core tasks of testing and raising potential are in serious danger. We have commissioned the Court of Auditors to take on a wealth of additional tasks, which has already been mentioned, such as the municipal examinations which have now been extended to the extent that it can also examine communities of up to 10,000 inhabitants, which is very useful. There you can see in what area of activity the municipality of A does something like that of the other community in the same area of activity, where it distinguishes itself from how one can achieve effects here in order to do something easier or equal in order to make it easier to compare. With regard to media transparency law, we have also imposed on the Court of Auditors a large number of administrative activities, and we know and have learned from the Committee that the Court of Auditors alone spent 686 days of administrative activity in 2012 for this purpose. This corresponds to about eleven follow-up tests, so-called follow-up tests, which we need in order to make really more efficient. Moreover, we have - and this is a particularly interesting fact - found that in the years 2001 to 2012 the Court of Auditors received a total budget increase of 38 percent, the remaining upper institutions, on average, one of 71 percent. In other words, we are in danger of trying to cut back an instance financially, which brings us a lot more financially. Now is the question of whether we want to. You can't do that. You can't. We believe that this is not a target, and for this reason I would also like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] All of you have acknowledged the activities of the Court of Auditors in your statements. If You really mean that, you agree today!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e10735	The motion for a resolution tabled is being negotiated. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e10811	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Lap. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e10833	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Mrs. Volksanwaltin! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! High house! Dear Seniors from Salzburg! Dear Spectators and spectators! Just to remember: When the liberals were in government, there were zero rounds for the pensioners, and now, in difficult times of the financial crisis, there is a pension increase especially for the seniors in our country. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We are now discussing the area of the Supreme Institutions in the 2013 budget. Since all the institutions in Austria must commit themselves to saving, this also applies to the Supreme Institutions. For our House too, for Parliament, it is said from 2014 on to meet the new challenges. And if Mr Zanger made a request to the Court of Auditors for the Media Transparency Act to be extended, I would just like to point out to him that the Court of Auditors has already granted an increase in the form of a person. Savings and strict requirements for the institutions of the State are important so that we as a state can be effective in dealing with financial speculators, against the currencies, against the States, towards Europe, and above all so that people in our country can continue to live reasonablely and are not at the edge of the minimum of existence. In 2013, a new budgetary reform was introduced, for which the Federal Government once made a clearer financial overview. It would be important for this transparent and clear budget to be transferred to the countries and communities. The design and influence are a very important measure, so that the budgets can be implemented in such a way that there is enough money for people in Austria to be guaranteed in their existence. A new measure introduced under the budget laws is the definition of the objectives of effectiveness. The Court of Auditors has also set itself effective objectives. Unfortunately, there has been a lack of what effect could be achieved in the interplay between Parliament and the Court of Auditors as Parliament's body. A transparent representation of one's own objectives is also an effective goal, and it is intended to work in this direction. A special progress at European level has been achieved by the European Courts of Auditors that they also have an audit competence and are involved in an audit competence on rescue shield measures, that they are a permanent member of the Board of Auditors, i.e. they can provide reports on the efficiency, sensuality and effectiveness of ESM expenditure. These reports are to be delivered to the European Commission, the European Parliament and the national parliaments, which has once again provided the opportunity for these reports to be discussed in the individual states.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e10890	Next speaker: Mr Brosz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e10911	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! It is again something we address each year: the form of the budget debate. One might think that we are in a debate on agriculture after we talk about herb and beet. Because the President-in-Office is also here: With all the difficulty that is already formally given – interrelationships, chapters, is already clear – but perhaps we can do it once on a level that at least we can keep things apart. It would be interesting once to talk about women's issues, to make a round. [[Abg. May. Prammer: Then you have to subdivide that again!]] – Yes, I do, but it seems that the bureaucracy of the house always fails, because there are, as it were, the same words every year at the budget debate. I am not talking about the officials at all, but also about the preparations. Karl Oellinger also points out that this form of debate is rather of purpose. Perhaps we will succeed sometime in the future, that we will have a debate in the budget, in which we will have the chapters in such a way that we can debate at least carefully and do not have to jump back and forth constantly. I really thought this was a step forward, should it succeed once. That's why I'm talking about media now. It is positive that the Secretary of State is also here. You sometimes meet the right members of the government in the debates, depending on when you are talking. So that's all right, in this case it went out. [[Abg. Dr. Fichtenbauer: He's always here!]] – Mr. State Secretary may be here more often today, so does it. But there are already two, three points I would like to address. We have passed a media transparency law last year. I believe that this was one of the essential points in the area of greater transparency on the one hand and other handling of taxpayers' money on the other, as far as political advertising is concerned. But I now have the impression that there is a small misunderstanding, because in fact we did not decide at the time that political ads were banned, we only decided that, for example, there should no longer be heads that there should be no PR event anymore. One now gradually has the impression that the government has just understood the head-inserate as the only way to do it, because it is always the reason why the advertising budget is limited. I think it is quite relevant and fair that public work can also be done for political concerns – Europe’s keyword, transport safety – but I do not believe that it is necessary to use this as a PR in these areas. That's why I'm actually rather surprised that this is so little happening. The budgetary questions may not be so directly affected at all, but the criticism is already being heard, because they have been shot beyond the goal. It was not the point to say that it should be impossible, but there should be fair criteria for it. This brings me to a second point in the media sector, which I think is even more interesting. It is also linked to the Party Promotion Act. New strict guidelines, but everything, as you can see afterwards, has not been completely covered. Because if you look at press promotion – I asked you that in the short budget requests – if you look at who gets press promotion, then you still read, colleagues from the ÖVP, that the “New Volksblatt” is the only remaining party newspaper in Austria, in Linz, which continues to have a press promotion of 695 000 plus 162 000, that is, more than 850 000 €, in order to ensure that there is only party propaganda. [[President Dr. Graf takes over the chairmanship.]] If you want to do this and want to publish a party newspaper in 2013, you can do it well and gladly. I just don't see why, in addition to party funding, public funds are used to promote election propaganda, party propaganda as well. In principle, this is also included. It has now become a little easier because the de facto counterpart, the “Kärntner Zeitung”, is no longer the property of SPÖ. I also know that there should be a reform, that there is a group that is now dealing with reviewing the media promotion procedures. I think it absolutely no longer contemporary that there are party newspapers here, which, until recently, together have made up almost €2 million, which means that a significant part of the title press promotion for very small newspapers that have an ideological background is used. I think we should change that and get away from it. There is another question, by the way. I am not sure if the answer is so correct, but we will have to go into it even more precisely. I also asked you how in addition newspapers are supported by frontal organizations of the two parties. The answer that has come was that there is no budget for this. Our knowledge, for example, is that the Farmers' Federation is very likely to benefit money from the press funding for its newspapers – now in the sense of the advisory board, where funds are also available. So it's not even easy to say how much get party organizations, party newspapers plus frontal organizations together. That's probably even more. I believe that in times when the budget is short, and secondly, when it comes to media diversity in Austria, it would be useful to control the promotion of diversity, the promotion of free media, and the financing of party newspapers with party funds, but not with media support.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e10969	The next speaker was Mr Gahr. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e10991	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr. State Secretary! Mrs. Volksanwaltin! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen! The 2013 budget is characterised by clear targets and targets. It is about continuing the consolidation path that we decided here in spring 2012. And it's about us consistently implementing the savings target of € 27.8 billion. Fortunately, despite banking and economic problems, the economy in Austria is relatively stable. I think we can happily appreciate in Austria that we have a stable labour market and that we can make courageous investments in the future in Austria. The 2016 objective of controlling the zero deficit must be implemented. The Court of Auditors, Mr President, has proposed 599 specific measures for structural reforms in large areas. He called for this in particular in health care and in the school administration. I hope that these structural reforms will also be implemented. Austria has already lost the Triple A. We've been able to recover it. I believe that in the future, we need to pay attention to having stable and healthy finances in order to secure the triple A in the long term and in a massive way. Overall, it is quite positive that the state saves itself, reformed and only more specifically spent what it needs for investment in growth and employment. The objectives of action have already been mentioned in part by my previous speakers, for example, the increase in transparency and the economy, the efficiency and the effectiveness of the budget. It is a question of introducing general government considerations on how public funds are used. It is a matter of examining and consulting. And it is about that we also specifically question the distribution effect between man and woman. The Court of Auditors, of course, has great tasks and challenges – and that has already been mentioned by my previous speakers – whether it be the Media Transparency Act, or the new budgetary reform, which also affects the Court of Auditors. It has already been said that there is a budget hole of €3.6 million in the Court of Auditors, resulting from the service providers' contributions of €8.9 million by 2016. In future, the Court of Auditors will have to bear that. But here, Mr President, I think we will have to find ways and ways to deal with this misappropriation. In total, there is a budget of € 30.62 million for 2013. In 2012, it was €30.88 million. Of the 325 planned posts in the Court of Auditors, 317 are employed. In total, the Court of Auditors has more than 340 sites on the list, but 317 are currently on the list. The Court of Auditors contributes to the economic economy of this state, and I believe that we also need to take the Court of Auditors' requirements and objectives seriously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e11039	The President of the Court of Auditors, Dr Moser, spoke. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e11060	Mr President. Dear Members on the Government Bank! High house! I would like to start by thanking all of you very much for the excellent cooperation and also for the recognition of the work of the Court of Auditors, which is constantly being expressed. This appreciation, which you have expressed, I would very much like to pass on to the staff of the Court of Auditors. They provide you with information that you need for your work through their commitment, by their joy in work, and also by the quality of their services, that is, an activity that is very important not only to Parliament but also, in particular, to increase transparency and accountability for citizens. This high reputation of the Court of Auditors, which has also been expressed today in the debate, has also led in recent years to the expansion of the powers of the Court of Auditors, but also to the extension of the tasks of the Court of Auditors. I thank you very much for this confidence in the work of the Court of Auditors, which you have expressed. So you have with 1. In January 2011, the Court of Auditors will also be able to examine communities with more than 10 000 inhabitants in the future. The Court of Auditors shall carry out this task. More than one third of these additional municipalities have already been examined or examined. The audit role of the Court of Auditors has been expanded in line with the Stability Pacts 2011 and 2012. According to the Stability Pact 2011, the Court of Auditors assumed that: inadmissible deterioration of the agreed stability targets to determine whether and to what extent the agreed stability objectives or contributions have been missed and whether the limits of liability have been exceeded. In addition, in accordance with the 2012 Stability Pact, the Court of Auditors has also established whether there is a sanction-related situation. He also has to assess the Maastricht figures, structural budget figures, expenditure growth, debt residues, liability residues and any other individual liabilities. They have also entrusted the Court of Auditors with further auditing tasks and also a wealth of administrative tasks: According to the Media Transparency Act, the Court of Auditors of the Com-Austria has sent a list of legal entities subject to its control every six months – more than 5,000 in number – with names, addresses, representative bodies. This is a high level of updating. In 2012 alone, 685 test days were spent. That is, resources for eleven follow-up checks have failed. They have delegated to us tasks under the Party Act, namely to accept, control and publish accounts and audit notes, to order auditors, to announce the valorisation of party funding, to collect and publish legal transactions of legal entities subject to jurisdiction with party-related undertakings, to accept, to deposit, to publish in the activity report, in the case of suspected infringements of the accountability obligation to forward donations to the competent authority. ==References== A large number of additional tasks for the Court of Auditors have also been developed in January 2013. The new Accounting Regulation includes an extension of audit tasks. The opening balance sheet 2013 must also be examined and tested by the Court of Auditors by § 117 of the Federal Budget Act. As of 2013, the Court of Auditors will also have to examine the balance of assets and earnings in addition to the financial statement in the future. In accordance with Article 9 of the Regulation on information on impact orientation, the Court of Auditors shall add extracts from recommendations from RH reports to the draft draft budget. In addition, in the future, the examiners will also have to face new challenges in the field of impact orientation: increased consideration of impact indicators and at the same time efficiency targets. The following increased challenge has already been addressed: Gender equality through systematic involvement of gender issues, increased consideration of budgetary reform and increased consideration of the aspects of corruption prevention. Not least, in the context of the reorganisation of Europe's economic, fiscal and financial architecture, it is also expected to shift skills to the EU level, or it has already occurred: for example, in the preparation of national budgets, in the case of balanced budgets, in the case of prescribed debt ratios, which also entails increased controls and at the same time sanctions challenges. This calls for new governance and surveillance measures, which present new fundamental challenges for both the Courts of Auditors and the national parliaments. The new EU budget also strengthens the audit and control obligations of the Member States and, hence, of the Courts of Auditors by the necessary annual summaries of the final audit reports and also the audit record of an independent examiner and by issuing a national audit report. Administrative declaration, also linked to the requirement of the submission of the audit note of an independent examiner. As a result of the new tasks and competences presented, the question is therefore imperative: Will the 2013 budget now submitted to you be made available to the Court of Auditors sufficient resources to enable it to deal with these new tasks and challenges in addition to the already existing major tasks? If you look at the Federal Financial Framework Act 2013 to 2016 and the Federal Finance Act 2013 Division 06, you have to answer this question clearly with No. As of the 2013 budget, all the departments, including the Court of Auditors, have to pay the service providers' contributions to officials from their own budget. In view of the constitutional high proportion of Pragmatisation in the Court of Auditors, this changeover is to an extraordinary extent to the Court of Auditors. The resulting additional burden for the Court of Auditors is €2 162 000 in 2013 alone. For the Federal Financial Framework Law period up to 2016, the additional financial burden on service providers amounts to €9.4 million. Of the €9.4 million additional expenditure, only €1.7 million are covered under the current Federal Financial Framework Act. The open balance of € 7.6 million would be covered by savings from the Court of Auditors. This is not possible, ladies and gentlemen, because the Court of Auditors has so far been extremely economical with its budget resources. Thus, the expenditure of the Court of Auditors in 2001 to 2012 has increased to a far lower extent than in all other institutions. In 2012 alone, the Court of Auditors had to carry out significant tasks under the Media Transparency Act; I have already done so. The logical consequence of the budgetary constraints while extending the special tasks would be a reduction in the core task of the Court of Auditors, namely auditing. A reduction in the key tasks is therefore necessary because, despite additional tasks, despite the increase in reference to be covered and the structural effects to be borne annually, and despite the price increases to be financed, the Court of Auditors will have fewer budgets in the coming years than in 2012 itself. The Court of Auditors' budget, however, consists in particular of staff expenditure and savings in terms of expenditure are therefore extremely marginal. Therefore, in order to achieve the budget targets, the level of staff, including our services, must be reduced. It is also difficult to add that the reputation and excellent training of the Court of Auditors' staff has also aroused the interests of other institutions. The Court of Auditors is very much in demand. Last year alone, two members of the Court of Auditors changed to the Parliament's budget service, one employee was appointed director of the Oberösterreich National Accounting Court, one employee as director of the City Accounting Court in Graz and one employee as head of the tax warrant at the Federal Ministry of Finance. I am pleased about the careers of the employees, I am proud of their achievements and I would like to wish them all the best about their new tasks on this occasion. At the same time, however, these developments increase the number of staff shortages in the Court of Auditors. The fact is: The gap in the Court of Auditors' budget cannot be covered despite the extremely restrictive budget implementation of recent years and the saved reserve of the Court of Auditors. As early as 2013, the Court of Auditors will have to draw €682,000 from its reserve in order to carry out its constitutional tasks in your sense, my honourable Members. It is therefore my responsibility to explain to you the facts and facts and the consequences. I can assure you, however, that the Court of Auditors will, as before, pay the highest attention to providing you with the proven quality in carrying out your control tasks. The scope of the audits carried out and the performance of the advisory tasks depend on the budget available. The last 250 years of the Court of Auditors and developments in recent months have shown that control is paying off. We should all therefore be aware that Parliaments are the stronger, the stronger their control bodies are. Both are in an interrelationship and are essential partners for the functioning of democracy. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e11170	Next speaker: Mr Herbert. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e11191	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Mr President. Mrs. Volksanwaltin! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) An area of public service has not yet been illuminated, namely service law. I should therefore like to make two comments on this point. Mrs Bundesminister, I really took up your objective of giving new values to the organisation of the Federal Service Rights in order to take account of both social and organisational changes, but I have to note that it is to be implemented with old, inadequate means, namely a continuation in the form of a new service right in the form of an existing service right. Once again, there has been a failure to give the many different branches of the public service at last independent and specific regulations. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The duties, but also the service and remuneration positions, as well as the rights and obligations of individual staff, vary greatly. It is actually clear that an administrative officer has completely different tasks than a police officer that a Federal Forest official must be equipped with completely different rights and duties compared to a judge or prosecutor. In fact, it is only a tribute to the time being that the independent regulations are finally laid down here. The second point I would like to address here in relation to service law is the statement made yesterday by the Council of Ministers that there should be a substantial increase in the right of discipline. Here, in particular, I am concerned that, in the event of a mere accusation, in the event of a mere suspicion of a suspected charge, a torture or sexual offence should result in a forced suspension of the servant. [[Interference of Federal Minister Heinisch-Hosek.]] I should like to inform you of my displeasure about this, and I think that this is the case for the 30 000 executive officials in this country. Let me make it clear: Officials who have been legally sentenced for a torture or sexual offence have not lost anything in the public service and have to be released without delay. [[I should like to congratulate the FPÖ and Ursula Haubner and Hagen.]] [[Federal Minister Heinisch-Hosek: Hopefully!]] But on the mere call of a alleged injured person here immediately exempt the officials concerned from the service and proceed here with suspension, that is not only inappropriate, but it also poses great problems in the execution of the executive, the police, the judicial system. It is already the case that a large number of officials are confronted with abuse every day. They are confronted with the fact that they have supposedly violated privacy, especially in the case of visits, in case of transfers to Arrests or Arrests. Even today, it can be seen that hardly any of these accusations here would lead to an actual condemnation. This proposal for a government shows that once again we will be dealing with the profession of executives with totally inadequate, excessive resources. [[Federal Minister Heinisch-Hosek: But the union has agreed!]] And because you just told me that the union had agreed to this: Well, ladies and gentlemen of the GÖD, I wish you every success! [[Intrusion of the Abg. It's funny.]] This is once again a sign that you are on the completely wrong side, that you are not on the side of our police officers, on the side of our executive officers, but that you are already on the side of the employer once more and that you are clearly representing completely false interests here. I can only tell you that our police officers, our judicial guards, are doing an indispensable job for the general public, and this contempt, which is once again brought to them by this overwhelming and inadequate measure, has truly not deserved them. [[Federal Minister Heinisch-Hosek: That's right!]] It is really worth a lot of support for all of us and not the blow in the face of this federal government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e11284	Next speaker: Mr Fazekas. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e11306	Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Mrs. Volksanwaltin! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! I now have to replicate the comments made by Mr Herbert very briefly, because I believe that we cannot allow this to happen in this form. Mrs Heinisch-Hosek, the Federal Minister in particular, has dealt very intensively with this matter in long, long negotiations. [[Abg. Herbert: Unfortunately in a way!]] You know this package, as it looked at the beginning, and I believe that what has now come out in the field of civil service law is something that we should also respect in the interests of executive officials, because that is where we must show responsibility to the public. We know very well, it's a difference whether someone pays an advertisement or whether it comes to an indictment. In the case of an indictment, there are already very, very many relevant circumstances in that they give rise to the assumption that there may be something true behind the offence. [[Abg. Herbert: But two thirds of the charges will be stopped, and colleagues will stay on the track! That's how reality looks!]] I believe that in this form of crimes, namely torture and sexual offences, we should clearly confess that we are very much behind the executive, but in the end we also have to assume our responsibility here. In the remaining time, I would like to say a few words on the subject of public prosecutorry. I welcome the fact that the public prosecutor's budget has been increased by almost €3 million, but not for pleasure, but for the fact that the public prosecutor's office with the OPCAT Convention has a significant number of additional work to be expected, namely by the Commissions. There are about 4,000 test sites in Austria, which can be tested in future. These are judicial institutions, institutions where care facilities are held, institutions where people with special needs are accommodated, and much more. This is something positive, which is good and also very important for those in need of protection in these institutions. I cannot entirely follow the argument when it comes to making committee meetings public, which Mr Zinggl has introduced in relation to the People's Procuratorate Committee. It should be noted that, in my view, the public prosecutorship is doing almost the best public work, because there is a comprehensive report, there is the treatment in plenary, and there is a television broadcast of public-law broadcasting equipped with a lot of viewers, where people can imagine exactly what performance the public prosecutor offers, and above all what are the topics the public prosecutorship deals with. With regard to the subject of the request, which has already been raised today, namely the extension to the distributed areas, I think we should consider, in the sense of efficiency, economy and economy, how to improve the management of complaints in these areas and how they can be made public, without additional tasks being transferred to the public prosecutor's office. I am still of the opinion that the public prosecutorship has to deal with the issue of maladministration in the administration. There is good and excellent work being done, but there is also an extensive catalogue of tasks to be done. Nevertheless: Congratulations to the People's Procuratorate – important tasks well solved, an indispensable institution for citizens! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e11358	The next speaker was Mrs Gartelgruber. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e11380	Mr President. Minister! Mr State Secretary! Mrs. Volksanwaltin! Mr President-in-Office of the Council! High house! Before I go back to the specificities of the Women budget, let me say: I realize that this budget has reached the historic peak of debt in 2013. No other government has worked so badly before you! It is therefore clear hohn, if the Minister of Finance turns out to be here today and thank the taxpayers. But now to the women's budget. The previous speakers have already mentioned this: With € 10 million, the budget is really not intoxicating. But what bothers me, Mrs Minister, is that you have remained guilty of the answers to the budget questions in the Committee. You have said that detailed planning will not begin until December. It seems to me quite late in person, but there is also the opportunity to give you a little help here, because sub-division 42, agriculture, forestry and water management, sees as an effective objective the sustainable development of a vital rural area. It should also be a priority concern for you to face up to young women's rural flight. That is why I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Mrs. Minister! In my opinion, the same applies to the topic of salary calculators, which is a special prestige project of yours: Except for spouts. Instead of a non-understandable In order to show pay differences between women and men, it would finally be necessary to publish the relevant provisions of collective agreements in a transparent manner, because we still lack them in many areas. For me, under the line remains only more clear: Of real improvements there is nothing to see this time, there are only announcements. Of course, the hearing budget deficit now being produced has a negative impact on women and is simply calling into question many support services that would bring urgent relief to women. Unfortunately, from a female point of view, the balance sheet of the budget presented is almost negative. It stays under red-black all the time.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e11437	Mrs Heinisch-Hosek is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e11458	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Madam President, and Mr President of the Court of Auditors. Mrs. Volksanwaltin! - Sorry: Mr President-in-Office of the Council! Oh, you! [[Call the FPÖ: The Gender Wahn!]] I would like to say very briefly that all of us, namely the entire Federal Government and you, ladies and gentlemen, are responsible for 4.3 million women. It is therefore important to stress here that I am very glad that the women's budget, although it may seem small compared to other budgets, is a matter for all of us. What I have to do directly with these €10 million, more than 50 percent for women's services and services, 35 percent for anti-violence facilities, is part of what is being done for women in Austria; not only from the federal government, but there are ally countries, there are municipalities, the municipalities allies. That means that women's policy is a matter for all of us. You can't always say: The Minister of Women is supposed to be! It can be used for this, which can start, but it's about 4.3 million women for whom we all make a policy so that they can have a good life so that they can have a good job themselves, an income that they can get out with, have a good life for their children, so that they can remain mentally and physically healthy. That is why I believe it is important to thank all those who deal with the women in Austria who are helpful to them, to all those who work in women's institutions, to all those who give women advice, and I want to do so. I would like to thank all the employees who work in women's advisory facilities, non-violence centres, NGOs, clubs – many of them volunteering to make women feel good, and the women are going well in Austria – which I would like to thank very much! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, to the public service. A lot has already been said about this. I can only say that we have committed ourselves to examining the whole of the Federal Government, but also the countries and municipalities, the budgets, namely the money we spend each year, in order to see how it benefits women and men in that country; whether it is well-balanced whether we perhaps subsidize some association in a small community more than the women's advisory institution in the district, where women from the municipalities, too, come from the communities, because they are seeking advice and help. That is, we have committed ourselves – foreign word: Gender budgeting – to look closely at every area in the federal government, as we set goals, so that we can achieve these objectives by means of measures so that we can use taxpayers' money in such a way that people's money can also be balanced. From sample operation to real operation: ==References== In January 2013, this will also mean for the Court of Auditors to have this gender perspective on how we deal with the funds. This is a step towards envying us not only in Europe, but internationally many, many countries. Gender budgeting is a kind of sex goggle that you put on to look at: Are the funds used accordingly? It may also be that men are disadvantaged, and then you have to make up for it. I'm very proud of that too. Thirdly, I am very proud that we have a powerful public service in Austria. In times of the financial and economic crisis, one immediately screams for a strong state. But if everything works and fits, some of the words “slender”, “saving ” and “administrative reform” come across the lips loosely. We're making administrative reform, year after year! Each year, in a service law novel, an attempt is being made to carry out administrative innovations, administrative simplifications – and this is not only tried, but actually implemented. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] If you had ever been to events where we are presenting our administrative reforms, then you would not be able to talk like that, ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ, because there are really good people at work who are also specifically praised. This has already been done by some of the Members, some of them or other Members. I too would like to do this now. We also assume great responsibility here and make a huge contribution to the consolidation of this budget in the context of €2.5 billion, not only through a zero wage round – I would like to thank you very much for that – but also through other consolidation and savings measures. To make that ridiculous I find here and now very missing in the place. Thanks to all the public servants! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I think that we should never ignore all the budgetary negotiations for which we are making a policy here. It's not about accusing each other. I do not let anything come about any group in the public service, and since you have referred to the executive, I would like to say that excellent work is being done. I will continue to negotiate with my colleague, Mikl- Leitner, over the next few days on how we can bring the date-value account for the executive to the ground. And if you mean, indictment and suspension, I have to say: Most resorts and most areas are so responsible that they suspend with the slightest suspicion. [[Abg. Herbert: Wrong approaches, Mrs. Minister!]] That means, in fact, you don't have to wait for the indictment. To change the disciplinary right here to protect public servants, as Mr Fazekas has said, is the right way. I should like to thank all those who are constructive. I would like to say to everyone else that I will, of course, face the debate and the discussion. I hope that, in the sense of all public servants, in the sense of all women in Austria, we will jointly decide on this budget.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e11541	I say that the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Gartelgruber is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e11606	Mrs. Volksanwälter Dr. Brinek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e11627	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to thank you very much for your commitment and for your commitment to work and the public prosecutor's budget. I would like to take this recognition, which you have received from the institution and from the staff, to the public prosecutor's office, and to convey this thanks and this recognition to it as well. The annual accounts are always an appropriate time to do so properly and in detail. Let me focus on some aspects. On the one hand, this is the increase in the budget. You have already referred in your contributions to the new tasks of becoming the Republic's House of Human Rights and thus the European Parliament. that have been associated with the implementation of the UN Additional Protocol, already this year, 2012. We owe it to the House that in December last year you made this decision. ==References== I would also like to thank you in this context for the support that took place at the start of the 10th anniversary event. ==References== You should know what has happened so far, what can be described in this work so far. We have also entered into international commitments with this additional protocol, with this signature. Not only national standards are to be lifted and secured, but also international standards. We started immediately in July with the preparation, training, the development of a training and training programme for the new Human Rights Visits Commissions, for the People's Procuratorate's Visiting Commissions. The task is completely new, and it is completely different from the things that the Human Rights Advisory Council has done. I can say that we have recently made a so-called Shadow Monitoring, that is, an accompanying visit monitoring, involving the world's best experts in this field, from the UN, the European Court of Human Rights and the Council of Europe. And I can tell you, it is very gratifying that this first result, this first evaluation, has been very, very positive. We are in the situation that we are in international competition with 43 countries in the world, 25 countries in Europe. One of the most important speakers has summarized the result: We are the model in terms of professionalism, implementation and seriousness of approach for Europe, if not for the whole world. I think you should know that with this careful and determined decision-making and determined manner of commissioning the public prosecutors, good, best standards have been set. The visits have begun to run the trainings. We expect to be able to draw a first small balance by the end of this year. You can imagine that a great deal of attention has been paid to the new facilities, but we have already taken the entire range of facilities into the focus of our test activities. The Commission leaders are working intensively with us, so that the Public Prosecutorship in Austria, this successful national prevention mechanism against human rights violations, violations of human dignity and human rights in the area of the disabled can operate in accordance with the UN Convention and in 2013 the funds will certainly be used as they were calculated. In fact, a question was raised by a Member of Parliament just now, Volksanwalt Kostelka in the Committee has stated that we have to expect a significant budget gap at the latest in 2016, even when it comes to all the savings and all the more economical action. That was the € 650 000 already mentioned in the Committee and also publicly. This is a nice sum for our relatively small, manageable budget. Staff intensity basically means to have to go down with the services. This is not what we want, not only because we do not want to give the impression internationally, but also because we do not want to neglect the core tasks of the People's Procuratorate in 2012 we have dealt with new tasks in 2012. We do not want to reduce the amount of speech, the possibility of being really a contact point for all complaints, That is why I would like to continue to ask the House to pay this attention to our budget. Of course, we heard that it is not yet so far that we must already be afraid, but the concentration and the federal financial framework law ordered us to draw attention to it now. One point that has always been raised is the question of audit activity for the distributed companies. In fact, it is a difference whether, in a company, I am improving the management of complaints, as Mr Fazekas has already mentioned, or whether I am saving citizens the situation – in a kind of experienced and comprehensible power against a large formerly state-owned company, because most of the time 100% of the public owners are in it – to move to court because the citizens are sitting in front of me and saying: But you don't mean that, Mrs. Volksanwaltin, do you think I'm gonna sue the big company in court? What chance do I have? It is therefore about the rights that citizens have. If they complain of us in such a situation, they are not faced with inconceivable costs. And between the company and us should be clear – especially in the field of general care, Social Fund Vienna, Badeverwaltung, Friedhofsverwaltung; there we must no longer say administration, because it is no longer administrative in the Meaning is –: This is a concern that moves the citizens very much. Therefore, our desire to be responsible for our long-term demand, for the real examination of the distributed companies, remains in all cases constant. [[I should like to congratulate Mr Peter Haubner and Mr Mag. Korun.]] In conclusion: We do not want to give the impression that we are dealing with our money too generously. This concerns us as well as the Court of Auditors. We want to avoid what is going on in space, personnel and work performance, exemplary, efficient and reasonable, but we also want to draw public attention in good time: If we want to maintain and expand our services, that means a threatening bottleneck. That is what we want to point out in time enough. By the way, I thank you for your support throughout the year. Please also expect the first real new activity reports in the new year. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e11709	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Lettenbichler. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e11731	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Mrs. Volksanwaltin! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Save smart and invest meaningfully is no contradiction, and therefore the Federal Government has also put forward targeted measures to make offensive use of the funds in important areas of the future. For example, last Friday's government clature took the relevant decisions, such as the young entrepreneurs' offensive, the part-time education programme, the funding of study places or the re-regulation of study contributions. I would now like to address the ORF in my remarks. The ÖVP confesses, you know it all, to public-law broadcasting. We are for more public-law content and for more quality in the ORF. The ORF has a crucial task due to its fees privilege, it must act as a lighthouse and as a corrective in the strongly fragmented field of electronic media offers. However, we do not want a pure entertainment channel, which is increasingly focused on private channels and is often no longer distinct from them at all. This was also widely debated in the Constitutional Committee, and I share the view of the communications authority Austria that also in ORF one and in ORF 2, and not only in the divisional channels, at least three of the four programme categories must be sufficiently present. Next year, you know, ladies and gentlemen, the fee-refunding process is running out, and the taxpayer will then, in addition to the GIS fee he will pay monthly, provide the ORF with a total of another 160 million € in subsidies. However, we are opposed to subsidising the ORF on a permanent basis and giving this claim a clear rejection, because it is not acceptable and not reasonable that the taxpayer should grant the ORF a permanent subsidy under the title “Feed Refund”. However, ladies and gentlemen, during the next legislative period, we will be happy to talk about the possibility of a budgetary levy. We do not disagree that we could imagine this, but only if it makes it cheaper for the fee payer. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] From the ORF we expect quality, level and independence – and all these criteria have been sufficiently fulfilled in recent times, as I mean. In the so-called case of Sido, it is about the level and quality of entertainment, the appointment of the head of the internal policy of the ORF radio about credibility, independence and the quality of information. Here the ORF leadership has put credibility at stake with its questionable decisions and proposals. As I see Mr Matznetter right now, one last comment on the ORF: I do not know who of you saw the show “In the Center” last Sunday, but we are constantly discussing the culture of discussion in politics and the reputation of satisfaction, and here it is surprising for me how to put together such a round of discourses. Mr Matznetter has almost made me sorry for his efforts to discuss this very important issue with various snake gangs and gauglers – you have now said – for us. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: Spinners!]] Here I can give the responsible person in the ORF a tip: With regard to the invitation policy, they should take a look at their competitors such as ATV, Pulse 4 or ServusTV, because there is now a more careful selection of guests, more objectivity and more quality discussions. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz]] [[Abg. You liked the Hubsi Kramar!]] In any case, we from the ÖVP support quality journalism and support all efforts in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e11793	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Unspoiled. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e11814	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Dear Mrs. Volksanwalt, Dr. Brinek! – Of course, I also wanted to welcome our women’s minister, but unfortunately she preferred to leave the house early. I am sorry that she does not listen to the opinion of all the speakers in the House who speak on her subject. In addition, a statement made in the last committee, which reads as follows: Housewife's not a job. – I find, with this statement, Mrs Heinisch-Hosek, with this attitude proves in a terrifying way, – we can also take the houseman to it, I have no problem. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: Yes, because Half-Halbe!]] I am concerned that you will unfortunately not pay attention to the work done in the family for the children or for the parents. And that's not all right! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It is also a question of not respecting the different life plans of Austrian women, namely, instead of showing respect for women who have decided to work for a period of time or longer for the benefit of their families, one does not consider that. And that one abuses the position of a woman minister in order to transport ideological purposes, I am not all right, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It could almost be assumed that she would not know the youth monitor of the family minister – I suppose we all know him – in which 55 percent of the 14 to 24-year-olds indicated that they would like to be a housewife. That's every second woman. That doesn't mean that this is a whole thing. For a lifetime to practice this profession, but the monitor shows that 55 percent of 14 to 24-year-old girls said they would like to be a housewife. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It will obviously be that Mrs Heinisch-Hosek simply will not be able to take off these politically colored glasses and accept reality – and reality is far from all left gender theories. Ladies and gentlemen, for years, since I've been a councillor and since I've been here in the House, this gender teaching is practiced. You must have already noticed that this is really an absurd idea that there is no biological fact that there are men and women – that is absurd – but that all differences would have their causes without exception in the social impact. I can remember I've often presented these theories, I'm always glad you're very interested in listening. I don't want to go back to Marx exactly and what do I know, but I still have to repeat it again: This idea, which is really abstract and away from any recognized science and far away from any reality. We liberals have always opposed, above all Barbara Rosenkranz, and I am very glad that we took a courageous position there. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, in order to create equality between the sexes, you do not have to go beyond nature, but you just have to – [[Abg. Dr. Cap: What is nature?]] [[Abg. Dr. Cap: If you just want to do it: What is your position?]] My position is that I accept biological facts that a woman is a woman and a man is a man. I mean, everything else is just absurd! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] One cannot overcome this, and one should not believe, Mr Klubobmann, that if it is claimed that man and woman are in every respect the same thing, therefore more sexual justice is introduced. That's an absurd theory! I assume that both you and Mrs Minister have already come to the conclusion that some European countries have adopted this gender theory. You all know that, too. Norway, for example, has discontinued all subsidies for gender research. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Originally, the Nordic Gender Institute granted 56 million annually. This failure of gender ideology is simply not accepted in left circles. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Muttons.]] It's a taboo theme in left circles, although you know that this has not brought anything at all in recent decades. You just don't want to admit that you've been wrong, Mrs. Colleague, you don't want to admit it. For decades everything the gender theory has demanded has been done, and yet reality has not changed. That's what I want. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Musiol.]] – It’s like Communism: One has the ideal society, and yet there are people who oppose the dictatorship from above, Mrs. Musiol. [[Abg. May. Honey: You didn't understand!]] On my written request, how high the cost of gender action is planned in the 2013 budget, I received the answer that there is no detailed planning yet. Since this gender identity, whose social benefits are not given, can no longer be taken away and therefore every single euro is wasted, I put the following motion for a resolution. [[Abg. May. Muttonen: Maybe you're going to Norway and look at this!]] Yeah, that's what I thought they were saying. This is quite simply an arrogant attitude that goes beyond all sciences. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Lap.]] Yes: Biology and anthropology are sciences – and gender is not science. - That's the way it is. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Jarolim.]] I now make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I'm sorry I can't contact the Minister here personally, because I would have told her: Do it like the Scandinavian! Accept the failure of the gender theory, and don't waste money on completely pointless political theories!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e12007	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e12071	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Windy. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e12092	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Mrs. Volksanwaltin! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Just a few more sentences on the incredible Sunday evening broadcast, which has also moved me in a negative sense, regardless of the list of invitations. But It is already a matter of how to view politics, democracy and us as politicians and how to draw an absolutely false picture. They ask themselves: What is the opinion of the people of the world? I can only say that we have only one chance, namely, to lean forward, and to take a confident and proactive stand against it. We must explain the democratic processes, explain the value of our work, inform us in order to stop this political starkness that is taking place, and also the underestimation towards us accordingly. When I came here on the day of the open door, namely, on 26. October, on the National Day, the questions of the citizens who asked visitors, I also got an impression of what people feel when they walk through these noble halls. Most have responded with respect, with astonishment and with shining eyes and admired things. There were also some mandates here who lent their ears to citizens, listened to them in describing their concerns and needs, and where one meant that one could also help, they were happy and offered this help. I think that exactly these people take a completely different picture in their minds than those they get presented in the media again and again. But now to the building itself, the topic is also on the agenda Upper Institutions. Parliamentaryism, of course, also needs an appropriate building, an infrastructure. This house certainly has a moving past. But this house also has tree stings. This house has a narrow roof, rolling walls, and many provisors have now become permanent solutions. I wonder, What kind of picture does this House make as a heartbeat of this democracy, if you don't care about it, also about rehabilitation? The General Rehabilitation has already been secured and is urgently necessary. A cost estimate of the Court of Auditors estimates about €500 million for the renovation and efficiency improvement. I know, admittedly, that's a lot of money, but if this house is worth something to us, then you probably have to take it in your hand. I'm sure it wouldn't be wrong to invest. We are in arrears with the schedule, and after a long time the call for proposals for the General Plan is scheduled for this year, and the move would have been planned for the year 2013 – probably one has to say: planned. If we don't invest now, it's clear that it's getting more expensive. Because damage that already exists causes consequential damage, and also the construction costs, the index increases will be made to book. After all, the establishment of the budget service was an important signal, including for the implementation of our mandates. I am very grateful for this, and I think we are all very grateful for this instrument. Finally, an appeal to our Madam President: Each master of the house has a certain responsibility in this role. The Parliament building is currently a damaged architectural jewel, and democracy is the treasure that lives in this House. Therefore, give this democracy the chance that it can be spent in a worthy way, you will lead to a reorganisation decision in the first place!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e12159	Next speaker: Mrs Mühlberghuber. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e12180	Mr President. Dear Members on the Government Bank! Dear Mrs. Volksanstalt! Mr President-in-Office of the Council! In the women's budget, the federal estimate for 2013 is almost identical to the federal estimate for 2012 and provides for a payout of € 10.15 million for the women's department. Around €1.2 million will be available for events, publications or campaigns. In order for more fathers to go to Karenz, a continuation of the 2010 information campaign was launched. The Federal Minister for Women is strong for paternal care, she is strong for the papal month, and she is also committed to women's rights and social and professional equality of women. But for a professional group or a group of persons she does not make herself strong at all – she does not see it at all, nor does she intend to work for it; she also told us personally in the budget committee – for the housewives. The Federal Minister refuses to recognise the activity of the housewife as a profession, in her opinion, housewife is not a profession. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This is discrimination against those women who work full time for their families and do the important work! We draw the attention of the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs to the fact that there are pre-printed application forms on which the activity or profession group of housewives is consulted, led and pre-printed. For them there are no such forms because there are no housewives for them! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But there are probably such forms – and I am sorry, I would like to present them to her today. From the Chamber of Workers in Tyrol there is probably a current application until March 2013. The question of current professional activity is: Housewife. – On a pre-printed form! Ladies and gentlemen! The thousands of housewives who are so qualified by the Federal Minister for Social Affairs do a valuable job for our society in the education of children and the care of family members. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Many housewives are also active in volunteering and, for example, perform an important, unpaid performance in the caring field, at the Red Cross or in parent associations. Where the socialist ideology of the destruction of the nuclear family leads is easy to read from the exploding social budgets, which can hardly be financed anymore. On the contrary, the Federal Minister should be grateful to the thousands of housewives, because with her achievements she is a support for the state and saves the budget millions a year. - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e12259	Second speech by Mr Grosz. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e12281	High house! We are also discussing the budget of the President of the Court of Auditors, and there has just been a preliminary report from ‘NEWS’ on ‘news.at’, where, among other things, the Neo-Clubobmann of the Stronach team he's the climbing sticker for black and blue. But what is of greater interest to you, Mr President – I quote tomorrow’s ‘NEWS’ – is: “As an expert, the Court of Auditors, with President Josef Moser, provided the ‘Team Stronach’ with important data for necessary savings in Austria. “Moser is also a good candidate for the top candidate” says Lugar. The ‘Team Stronach’ should at least be the voice of the President of the Court of Auditors. ’ [[Oh, call at BZÖ.]] Mr President Moser, I assume that you do not harm the independence and objectivity of your office, but are once again victims of a neo-club-obmann of the Stronach team, who is out of the line, completely out of line and band, who tries to instrumentalize you. However, I do not think that this procedure is an example of how the Austrian National Council, its clubs and all the parliamentarians deal with the President of the Court of Auditors. The President of the Court of Auditors, Dr. Moser, was elected in June 2004 and since then enjoys a high degree of over-participation acceptance across all clubs, including the support of all the speakers of the Court of Auditors, and I can therefore ask you to make a statement on what we have to say about it. As I said, I do not believe that you have any sympathy for this chaos troupe – from which I am far away – but rather I think you have become victims of a special stupidity that a Member of our house has done. But still: Today we are talking about budget, President of the Court of Auditors, and this report is very up-to-date. We are discussing your budget, therefore also the future of your home, and we would have liked to know what we are dealing with in relation to the President of the Court of Auditors sitting here on the Government Bank. My sympathy for you, including my respect, is, of course, unbroken.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e12335	The President of the Court of Auditors, Dr Moser, spoke. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e12356	Thank you very much for your remarks! In this context, I would just like to say: I believe that each of you knows that I have a passion and great sympathy for my role as President of the Court of Auditors. For me no other function is considered at all. I feel obliged both to the citizens and to you here, and I will continue to live up to this commitment in the future. [[Complementary with FPÖ, SPÖ, ÖVP, Greens and BZÖ.]] I would like to add one more point: All the information that the Court of Auditors has is public, transparent. There's no information anyone has from you who doesn't know the other one. That is, the Court of Auditors lives on its reputation, lives on transparency, lives on accountability. That was the case in the past and will be the same in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e12392	There are no more words available to me. The discussions on this subject have thus ended. [[14:03:50]] UG 13: Justice
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e12416	We come to the trial of the UG 13: Justice. Mr Fichtenbauer spoke. 6 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e12440	Mr President. Federal Minister! Dear Governments on the Government Bank! The basic indicators of the judicial budget are pleasing from the Ministry's point of view. In the budget development from 2010 to 2013, there is a plus of € 107.3 million. This is very different from other ministries, and it is also to be congratulated. It is, of course, a fundamental consideration of this post, because, unlike all other ministries – except, of course, the Ministry of Finance – justice pays the population itself. We have an extremely high level of coverage, revenue that appears there, with €921 million, and the expenditure goes almost through what exceeds the level of self-cover, a account of the execution of the penalty. Now you might already ask, if that is the case for the third pillar – or first or second pillar – that can be held, as you want – that is, within the framework of the separation of power, the third pillar of state power, which exists in the same area of authority as the other powers that make up the state and its functional life, is almost 100 percent private coverage of the participants in the system of justice, why then the participation in justice must be so expensive – for that is also a fact. With enormous effort, an increase in the registration fee in the basic book could be prevented and returned to a reasonable level under certain conditions. It is really not to be seen why, in some cases, very modest expenses have to be paid, because the registration of a base book business is just as laborious for the base book leader when it comes to €10,000, as it is about €10 million, just to say by the way. There are a row or two rows in the root sheet and in the base book data sheet. Considering that, of course, we have a very high and very mature level in the field of procedural assistance, but if anyone has no legal protection insurance, he cannot afford a trial – precisely because he exists in the income sheath which is not sufficient for the granting of procedural assistance but is not sufficient to risk a process with all the risks of the process – it is to be noted that far-reachingly the demands of justice to the right-seeking citizens are exaggerated, hypertrophic and, in fact, unacceptable. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This is partly for the first instance, but we definitely have unacceptable, prohibitive fees, burdens on the appeal, so that the principle of equal law and access for all citizens of the state is very, very much on the scale of the questioning. This issue is sometimes debated, it will never be debated enough, but we will proceed to debate this subject thoroughly. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e12495	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Ikrath. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e12516	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to express my special recognition of the budget submitted by Mrs Federal Minister Dr Karl. I will also explain why, especially for two reasons, of which a colleague has already mentioned. In times of extremely restrictive budgets for the necessary consolidation of our government budget, a plus of € 107 million is gratifying, and for me it is even more important that 93 additional posts are included in this budget. With those additional planning points, it will be possible to cover two of the main priorities of our judicial policy. One is the consistent fight against corruption and economic crime. The other focus – equally important, though completely different – is the improvements in the area of family jurisdiction. So two very essential areas of activity, which thus experience the corresponding personal security. I would also like to inform the House of the following: Mrs. Federal Minister Dr. Karl assured us in the Committee on Justice that – and I refer to Mr Fichtenbauer’s comments on this matter – this more in planning points will not lead to any pressure on the fee side, so that no higher court fees will be linked. This is gratifying because the critical assessment of the fees and their amount is to be carried out again and again by us. I would like to make a brief comment on the fight against economic crime, which, for me, is a very essential field of our activities. The European Commission for the Efficacy of Justice is an excellent testimony to our justice. The judicial systems of 45 countries have been examined and Austria has been found to have on the one hand one of the fastest and most cost-effective procedural realities – and I would also like to congratulate the Minister of Justice on this – and on the other hand there is an enormous acceptance and quality of our judicial decisions. In this respect, it is almost paradoxical that there has been a contrasting impression in the persecution of economic crime among the population: that the procedures go unbearable for a long time, and it is obvious that there could be some celebrities. It is therefore welcome that a qualification offensive is now under way for judges and prosecutors for whom an interdisciplinary approach has been chosen. In this way, economic competence deficits of prosecutors and judges will be eliminated by attractive training. In addition, there will be the possibility to complete future internships in companies. The accompanying use of experts in the investigation tasks of the judiciary should also take place, as well as close cooperation with the executive in Germany and abroad. That is why it is so important because it involves the trust of the people in justice and the reputation of our economic location. You can count on our support, Mrs. Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e12570	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Steinhauser. 6 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e12592	Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you, Mrs. Minister of Justice! As an opposition politician, it is in principle my task to put my finger in the wound of a budget. But I say there must be something like a measure of fairness. We must also say once again that some of the points in the budget have been satisfactorily resolved this time, which in recent years were also interconnected between us, we say. You also have to praise when something works, because otherwise there is no incentive for the government to change something. – You can say that, too. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Bravoruf des Abg. May. Kogler.]] The significantly improved financial facilities of the ‘NEUSTART’ association are pleasing, which makes the important parole aid and organises other resocialisation measures in the Republic. This is a very successful institution. Since I was a judge, I have still criticized in every budget that funding is not sufficient. Whether it's enough this time, I don't know, but at least there's an amount inside that's what makes it hope. The second point, which is also an important concern, is the sufficient teaching of the Association for Sachwalterschaft. This is about the delicate area of the authorities. The relatively successful system of clearing tries to explain the facts so far that it only comes to this serious intervention where it is really necessary. This is organised by the Association for Sachwalterschaft. I also have the impression that this structure is now secured. Also in order is, of course, the increase of the economic and corruption prosecutor's office. But then I come to a point and still have to address things that are not solved, because the fundamental problem that our justice is working on the limit has not changed. You know the numbers. In the national courts, utilization is 125 percent, in the district courts 106 percent, in the courts at 117 percent, in the public prosecutors at 114 percent. I have already said that justice is working at the limit, and the consequences are also clear: There's a mistake. This is, of course, a poison for the trust of citizens in justice. There may be longer procedures. I know they are still relatively short in Austria, but nevertheless, these quality standards need to be defended daily. And this too is bad and leads to dissatisfaction of the citizens. The second basic problem, which remains, is the problem of the financing of fees for justice; Mr Fichtenbauer has already mentioned it. The courts are, in order to express it economically, a profitable company. Now it always sounds good. Only if one knows that citizens have to finance this profit, that is, that citizens pay more fees in this country for jurisdiction than the jurisdiction costs, then one knows what it is about: that it is primarily about financing and that these charges are not actually equivalent to performance. And only what has been introduced in recent years of fees from you, but also from your predecessor, gives to think. 2009: new fees for property managers; 2009: new fees for comparisons in maintenance disputes; also 2009: new fees for setting the right to visit. Then, also in 2009, there was a general increase in court fees by change in indexing. In 2011, there was an increase in the fees in the land cover. We have a permanent debate on how high the copy costs should be. All these increases lead citizens to pay more for jurisdiction in the end than they do. And I am surprised by this access, because the ÖVP is always a tax reduction party. But on that point, the ÖVP has been running the Ministry of Justice fee driver for years. – You have to say that so clearly! The Minister of Finance only makes a very, very small contribution to the judicial budget. Most of them are self-financed. That's a problem. I would prefer a system that is generally tax-financed, of course already with fees, but not predominantly over fees which are socially less reliable than taxes. But the budget offers something that I find quite exciting and inviting: For the first time, the budget offers effective targets in all areas, and so can it – how should I say? – to discuss politically what is spent on budgeting as an objective. Otherwise you have numbers and can interpret it, now it's on the table. I would like to talk about a few targets of effect. There is an effect goal – I read it for reasons of time –: Further development of the legal system with regard to social and economic needs. – Interestingly, this objective of effect includes the preparation of a draft for care. No matter whether I agree with the result, this will happen to Parliament this year. That means that you actually have resources available for next year, and I wanted to give you another topic, namely rental law. You know, this has now been debated, and I am sorry that what is being proposed on amendments is being precipitated as ‘communist’. Rental costs for a four-member family of some over € 1,000 with an average income of € 2 000 net are highly problematic. This is especially true of young families, and this is especially true of the middle class. And there is no way to say that if you work to ensure that young families can afford to live, it is communist. It's shortened. Mrs. Minister, you are urgently called upon – you know the key facts, you know the increases in rents – to do something. You can't look away. This is not the place where the ÖVP should pursue client policy, but it is the place where the ÖVP should take on citizens' closeness and responsibility. The second objective I would like to address – the time has already been relatively advanced – is to ensure access to justice services by offsetting income-related social and other disadvantages. – I agree with this objective of action. You have only forgotten a relevant measure, and this relevant measure – we have discussed it in the Committee – is the appropriate cost compensation for acquittals, which is a rule of law in our Republic. This has become visible in the so-called animal protection process, where, for a year or more, the accused were in a trial, were acquitted and received a flat-rate cost of €1 250. So this is a state-of-the-art condition, but not only for the animal protectionists, but also for all other interested parties who are partially existentally ruined, both workers and entrepreneurs who cannot pursue their profession and then still sit down on the costs of the defense. For the purpose of your objective of action, you must put an end to this abuse next year. I also found the figures that you mentioned to us in the committee interesting. You said if I understood you correctly – if it's wrong, correct me – that you will cost it budgetly in about €3 million. – I honestly tell you, this figure does not scare me when I see that the fee payers pay €96 million more court fees than the courts cost. These 3 million must have place in this amount, which is an extremely important question of the rule of law. In fact, I expect you to accept this problem, just as you did then, in the course of the animal protection debate. In this sense, I would like to thank you for your attention and hope that you will accept the two problems raised to you. In the next few years or in the next few months, of course, more will be applied to you, but the time will not allow to address all of the judicial construction sites today. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e12692	The next item is the speech by Mr Jarolim. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e12713	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! I would just like to thank the Secretary of State for his contribution to the Rules of Procedure, which we have implemented in the meantime, and have the opportunity here because of the presence of both of us. I wanted to take advantage of this opportunity. Mrs Minister, what the budget is about to do is undoubtedly very good work. If justice covers itself to a very high extent, then one has to look at the types of revenue. We see that what has already been mentioned several times here, namely the fees, of course, also represents a certain obstacle to access to the law. However, we all have this problem in common and we must solve it together. It is not easy to really find a just solution. There have been strong improvements, you have to say. But probably there is still a need for improvement in one area or another. It is, I believe, somehow that we should transfer the solution of basic fees to the tax area. I'd think that's absolutely impossible. I am also not personally incredibly happy about the design of the basic book fees. It will be awaiting whether these are constitutional or not. There are arguments for this, also against it. We have now decided this together and will implement it together here. In this case of Salzburg, I would really like to ask you, Mrs. Minister, to take a look at this again. There are now also revelations, which, I believe, make it necessary to look at the matter again. If, in fact, it is true that what is claimed here is that a threat from this couple has taken place for a long time, telephone contacts, however, then you can't hang the footbands. If conditions have changed, then You look at that. I should really like to ask you not to burden the success story of the shackles with such things, where then a general vocation takes a lot of what we actually wanted to achieve. I should also like to ask that in the future we send to the ‘NEUSTART’ association the corresponding financial resources. I know, Minister, that's in good hands with you. We are all aware that there is a great deal of valuable work and that this work also ensures that the low rate of relapse – in Europe we have a high value – contributes to the fact that we ultimately also save budgetary resources, because nothing is more expensive than relapses. Therefore, all expenses for dealing with people in such a way that they do not become criminal again are essential. The prosecutor's authorities are being increased, including the corruption prosecutor's office. On this occasion, I should like to ask, in particular, to ensure that a really well-balanced occupation takes place in the post-retirement period, especially in the way that one might at all suspect that some political intervention has taken place, for example, when people are transferred from the closer environment. This applies to all ministries, including the Ministry of Justice. Otherwise, as I mean, we are good on the road, the cooperation works very well. The Committee on Justice is a committee which, I would say, is largely set aside from small day-to-day fights, and this should remain the case. – Thank you and wish us all the best.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e12762	The next item is Mr Grosz. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e12783	High house! Mrs. Federal Minister! The acceptance of taxpayers to do the justice budget as properly as you would like will tend to be against zero if we today – Mr Jarolim has mentioned it – have the new ad in the case of the sexual offender in Salzburg, to whom your justice wants a foothold. I would like to remind you once again of the case of 52-year-old Salzburger, who, in 2005 and 2006, has been shown to have raped and sexually abused a 15-year-old or 16-year-old at that time, and who has been partially due to two years by your Justice, Mrs. Federal Minister, for which only six months have been absolutely pronounced. That's the main problem. The second major problem is the fettering of the foot, but the main problem is that it is obvious that in this country one can be a child’s shame, a rapist, a criminal against body and life, and only in the rarest cases that there is a high level of impunity. If we're honest, there's no headshaking either. Mr Schönegger, can you remember when last time in this country a rapist was absolutely sentenced to six years? - So I don't. I can remember that in the case of a financial crime only recently six years absolutely and, I think, 7 million € have been pronounced punishment. By a financial crime! But in the event of a crime against body and life, a person who has hurt the soul of a young girl, by the way, gets a life-long person who has a young girl Girls have passed away, absolutely for six months, and, because of this judicial policy, they are still walking with a footstool. Mrs Bundesminister, I have the advertisement that we have also packed in a parliamentary question, Mr Westenthaler and I, which we will also bring in today. They have the display of this victim, who, by the way, did not feel perfectly represented by “NEUSTART”, in the hand, an ad that was received yesterday by the Vienna police, according to which this sexual offender from Salzburg mobbs, stalks, continues to follow him, threatens, writes textual, at least this is blamed. And I urge you to rethink Mrs Bundesminister, who will make the decision by tomorrow, tomorrow, on Thursday, and also give your prosecutors a clear message that it cannot be possible for this offender, who now has to be admitted, to get a foothold on this criminal. This does not create any confidence in the Austrian judicial policy, as you can still get so much money from the taxpayer for your budget if the people in this Land every day Read headlines that a child’s machete, a rapist almost goes free house and is rewarded six months with a foot shackle almost. This is not the judicial policy we are imagining! Mrs Bundesminister, a second point, which is not necessarily very trusting. Maybe you'll allow me the courtesy of your ear because it concerns you personally. Mrs Bundesminister, a second case, which is not very trusting, is your recent trip to Argentina, Uruguay and Brazil. With confidence said: Cost 60 000 €, four persons and accompanying protection. Mrs Bundesminister, I really don't understand the epochal added value you see on a trip to Uruguay. I don't know what's so unique about our judicial system that you spend more than a week in South America, Argentina and Uruguay. I do not want to be small and not small for God's sake, and I do not want to avoid the next speaker coming out of here and saying how can you be so small and forbid the ministers from travelling abroad. But I really wonder because in your own party there is extreme displeasure about how it can be that you are on the road in South America for more than a week. And I would really ask you where the added value for Austrian judicial policy is. So I have never seen anything plausible for Austria in the Uruguayan judicial system. If you write that you have promoted an extradition agreement in Brazil, but this has not even been signed, because this may not be signed until one year, I wonder how often a minister has to travel to different countries of the world until the extradition agreement is finally signed. So in the age of modern telecommunications, I expect you, Mrs. Federal Minister, to use this means of communication. These would also be more economical. Then maybe more money will be left for your judicial staff. The case in August of this year, when a prisoner broke out of a Vienna prison in order to commit a murder, is still remembered by all of us from this pile, pitch and pans series of the Austrian justice in the summer. So I think the money is better done if it is used for our judicial guards and security in our Austrian prisons than for any nice journey to South America.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e12843	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Nice to meet you. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e12865	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) High house! Dear Gerald Grosz, I shook my head. Maybe I made the mistake of listening to you. I just found it to shake that you change political change at the expense of victims, which is really incredible. But what you don't expect can't surprise you. And to expect political class from you, I didn't make this mistake anyway. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Let me welcome the participants of the Kaderschmiede in front of the visitor gallery, which is the mentoring program of the Styrian Economic Federation. I'm glad you're here today! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! With the 2013 budget, the Federal Government sends a very clear and clear signal in terms of budgetary predictability and responsibility for the future of Austria. Let me, in particular, take this budget debate on the occasion to draw attention to the very, very remarkable success of the Federal Ministers, but also to the success of this House! Traditional values at the level of time, one could summarize. After more than three years of negotiations, a modern family law has been introduced in these days. This family law package brings faster decisions in relevant procedures for family law, continuity for children after separation and the preservation of human rights. In the first place and for us, the Austrian People's Party always stands for the well-being of the child, which is defined and held separately for the first time with the present family law package. I particularly address the right to care for unmarried fathers and the possibility of common care even after disputed divorce. To date, unmarried fathers have not been able to make a request for care that they discriminated against mothers or married fathers. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Family court aid is also affected by this family law package. The aim is to be able to deal with court proceedings more quickly and efficiently in the future. Family judicial assistance is intended to help resolve family conflicts at an early stage. The idea is to provide the court with social workers, educators or psychologists. Of course, these family-political milestones also have a budgetary impact. It is clear that, in order to deal with these new tasks in the department, there will also have to be a greater number of staff and also highly qualified staff. And so it is more consistent, but also gratifying to increase the budget of justice in the human field. Briefly presented in detail: 17 Family judges new, ten new lawyers, eleven officials or contract staff. Ladies and gentlemen! This also budgetary provision is an unmistakable sign that we take the child's well-being very, very seriously and this is also important to us. It remains to be hoped that no, I am actually convinced that this clear and clear political will will will will also be expressed in the field of the education and training of judicial staff. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, let me talk to you at the following: In the general debate, Mr Kogler once again made a very inappropriate attempt to continue to adapt the very, very popular Graz mayor. [[Abg. May. Kogler: No, I spoke about the Graz ÖVP!]] Mr Kogler, that won't help you. These cheap apatista attempts cannot be fooled by the empty contents and the meaning crisis of the Graz Greens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e12916	The next speaker was Mr Hagen. 4 minutes are set. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e12938	Mr President. Minister! High house! The 2013 Justice Budget has an increase of € 107.4 million, which means a 9 percent increase. That sounds very positive at the first moment. If you see the 30 additional bodies in the judicial area, it sounds pretty good. But if one sees the demands of the union of the section of judges and prosecutors who also demand 170 judges and 30 prosecutors, then that is not enough. And if one still sees that the judicial guards have an eerie shortage of personnel, then this joy that we have with these 30 additional posts is relativizing. These 30 additional posts are based on increased work in the field of corruption, but also on family law, where the extension of the common care for parents and more rights for fathers are anchored. As a result, the whole is relativized because most of the staff go there. In the field of justice, it is important to benefit from synergies, which are useful. And that's why we're also for mergers of district courts in cases where micro-jurisdictions are affected, which are not burdened. I think it's reasonable there. That's where you have our support. In the administrative field, however, one can also save and make administrative simplifications. Here you are required, Mrs. Minister. I think there's a lot to do there. I would like to express my thanks to the judicial officials who are moving very much with good, hard work under difficult conditions. One of my criticisms in this area concerns court fees. This has already been mentioned today. If the court fees were profitable in 2010, we would have to ask whose costs this profit has been generated. It is precisely the small citizens who are going to court for help, who have to use the court somewhere. They are cut off to renovate the budget, and I believe that this is the wrong way. The human resources of the judicial board are very inadequate. The members of the judicial board are extremely under-occupied. As a result, there are very poor conditions in the prisons, but also poor working conditions of the colleagues. Overcrowded prisons, despite this shortage of personnel, add the rest. Many construction sites and much to do, Mrs. Minister. We from the Stronach team are happy to support you. It needs to be made better, and we offer our cooperation An. If we take it together, we will also provide a reasonable solution!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e12989	Mrs. Federal Minister Dr. Karl spoke. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e13010	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Legal certainty and legal peace and respect for fundamental and human rights are the guiding principles of Austrian justice. An essential objective, of course, is an objective, fair and independent management of proceedings, as well as the decision by courts and prosecutors in an appropriate duration. Mr Ikrath has already mentioned that the current report on European judicial systems by the Commission on the efficiency of the Council of Europe's judicial system gives Austria a very encouraging picture. The achievements of the Austrian judicial system are excellent in European comparison. The very short periods of completion in civil proceedings are very positive. In Austria, for example, a disputed civil procedure takes on average about four months, on the European average about 9.5 months. Or if one considers disputed divorces: Conflicting divorces took on average only 167 days in Austria in 2010 and, of course, with high acceptance and quality of decisions, because of course, this aspect must not be overlooked. If one considers the European section, especially in the Central and Western European countries, then the time limits for proceedings are two to three times higher. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! As the Justice Budget is the subject today, I would also like to point out that the budget expenditure is relatively low. Only 0.24 percent of the gross domestic product of each Austrian citizen compared to average 0.32 percent of the gross domestic product of each European are spent annually on jurisdiction and law enforcement authorities. The Austrian judicial system is thus very favourable to taxpayers in international comparison. This is due to the high degree of automation, to the collection of costs-covering court fees in the field of land and company book and, of course, to the use of legal officers. As Mr Steinhauser has also mentioned that fees have been increased over the last few years, and in this context also the cost of copying has been addressed, I can point out that I have almost halved the cost of copying. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, of course the previous speakers also discussed the revenue of justice and the degree of self-evidentness. We have also repeatedly discussed this subject in depth in the Committee on Justice. The draft budget provides for total disbursements of just under €1.3 billion and deposits of €921 million. Only the balance of approximately €367 million will be borne from tax payments, which corresponds to the expenditure of the execution of penalties and measures, including parole aid. Counted over the entire judicial budget, the level of own funds due to its own revenue is about 70 percent. High house! The high legal certainty of decision-making, individual case-law and transparency as well as access to justice for every citizen in that country must be ensured. However, one thing is clear: In times like this, everyone has stopped saving and dealing with public funds even more carefully than usual. It is therefore all the more important to set the right priorities. For me, it was therefore very important to put additional emphasis on family jurisdiction, anti-corruption and economic competence. I have vehemently worked for the ever more complex tasks of the courts and prosecutors to achieve a clear increase in human resources. In the field of justice, I have thus succeeded in negotiating 93 additional planning points for 2013. These planning bodies are divided into the areas of family jurisdiction, anti-corruption and implementation of the lobbying law. After years of negotiations with the Family Law Package, a real breakthrough has been achieved, for the benefit of the children. The common care will become more and more a regular case. Family and visitor assistance will speed up and accompany procedures. And unmarried fathers get a full right to apply for care or can agree with their mother in agreement with their mother at the office. Some of these new rules will even relieve the courts. Others, on the other hand, will lead to additional burdens. The 38 additional planning posts required in this context are provided with the 2013 personnel plan for the new Family Law Package. Ladies and gentlemen! I have always stressed that corruption is not a cavalier offence and must be fought decisively and effectively. With the intensification of the anti-corruption provisions submitted by the Federal Ministry of Justice in mid-2012, virtually all the recommendations of the Council of Europe, called the GRECO Commission, were implemented. It is undisputed that investments in justice are expected in the fight against corruption, such as the establishment of the economic and corruption prosecutorship. That is why it is also my central concern to continue this successful path. Therefore, there are almost 30 new planning sites for the fight against corruption alone. An effective fight against corruption also makes Austria more economically successful in the long term. Of course, apart from the legitimate expectation of the population in terms of propriety and cleanliness in public action and in the economy. On the one hand, the personal development of the economic and corruption prosecutor's office and training courses on the other are particularly important to me. Mr Ikrath has already pointed out that today our prosecutors and courts are dealing with increasingly complex economic procedures. It has therefore also been shown that, particularly in the treatment of these complex economic procedures, sound legal training alone is not sufficient, but that it also requires additional economic know-how. It is only with the necessary understanding of economic and business processes and contexts that it is possible to resolve such economic criminal cases legally. We now offer our own courses, such as our own Master's course, in order to teach the knowledge of business organisation and business activities and the related legal and subject areas. on “Economic Crime and Law” at the University of Economics in Vienna, or an MBA course on “Business Administration for Daily Law Practice” at Johannes Kepler University in Linz. The fact that this offer is actually very well accepted shows how important these additional trainings are in practice. However, I did not create many opportunities for further education and training exclusively in the academic field. Already during the training period, there will be the possibility to complete an internship in a company in order to know more about the economic processes in practice and to understand these economic processes in practice. It is precisely this input from practice that is also involved in the support of prosecutors and prosecutors at the Public Prosecutor's Office by experts with expertise in the field of financial and economic law. This joint case-by-case preparation in its often extremely complex investigation activities saves a lot of time and money; and in many cases, expert advice is also available and many issues can be resolved quickly and recently with the experts in the field of economic and corruption prosecutorship. For the execution of sanctions and measures, I must say that I am committed to a modern care performance based on European standards. The execution of the penalty pursues an objective that goes beyond the penalty and, of course, includes aspects of crime prevention and security. In this context, I should also like to point out numerous structural improvements in the judicial institutions, in particular the reopening of the Korneuburg judicial centre at the end of the month, and the new construction of the Salzburg judicial body from spring 2013. In this context, I would also like to refer to the speeches on the granting of foot restraints in the very well-known Salzburg case. It was addressed to the victim's adage. I should like to point out that the victim's display was only on the 12th. In November the Commission adopted a proposal for a Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to exposure to dangerous substances. But I've got a report from the prosecutor's office and I'm going to look at the case, of course. In this context, Mr Grosz has also pointed out that he considers that the offences against body and life with lower penalties are being committed as property offences. That is something I hear again and again, and of course this is also a concern that I take very seriously as Minister of Justice. I will therefore set up a working group which will look closely at the criminal code and also look at exactly what it looks like with these criminal relations, whether there is a need for improvement here, whether we really have a problem with the criminal relations. But I believe that it does not help a lot if we are dealing with individual offences only in individual cases. Here we need a comprehensive overview and insight into the criminal code. And that really needs to be reworked and tested from scratch. High house! The present legal budget for 2013 ensures the organisational, human and material conditions for reliable, objective and fair enforcement and enforcement, while also taking into account the need to safeguard the fundamental rights of particularly vulnerable persons and to ensure the safe maintenance of prisoners and inmates of judicial institutions in accordance with fundamental and human rights. Measures in the field of family I would like to focus on both the right and the fight against corruption and the strengthening of economic competence, in the interests of strengthening the public's confidence in justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e13117	Mrs Mag. Mulder. Speaking time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e13138	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Mr State Secretary! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Around €60 million is the revenue from fees, around €60 million annually pay tenants when they enter into new rental contracts. This expenditure position is a very high entrance barrier for many people, especially in connection with often withdrawn deposit payments and broker fees. Housing and renting, housing costs, which is very busy people because everyone is affected in any form of them. In view of the ever-increasing cost of renting income, it is absolutely clear that rental costs need to be reduced. The new data presented by the Chamber of Workers and the Wifo demonstrates this very clearly. When we look at the fact that between 2005 and 2011 rents – which always has to be differentiated – have increased by 28 percent, especially in the private old house sector, and cooperative and municipal rents have only increased by 13 percent over the same period, at a price of 13.1 percent, this says a lot. From a social point of view, but also from a very strong sense of justice, the Social Democratic Party has presented several proposals to the coalition partner and also to the public that would favour living and strengthen the social balance and sense of justice. However, it must also be said that some important steps have already been taken in the right direction in this legislative period in residential law, such as the reduction of broker fees, the initial adjustment of inflation or the facilitation of recovery opportunities for unwarranted deposits or heating charges. However, it is also very important to take further steps to discharge the tenants. The positions here are very wide-ranging. There is a broad arch, on the one hand, there are positions that represent only the interests of very small groups, on the other hand there are also populist positions that call for demands that are certainly not feasible. Our proposals are rather strengthening the balance and sense of justice. You're on the table. I would like to take some of them out: In the case of rental contracts and especially in the case of fixed-value rents, the surcharges and discounts must be limited by 25 percent. That would be a limit of €6.45. If you compare this with the common people, they pay only €3.13 if they are financed. The Treaties must be clear and transparent, i.e. discounts and surcharges must be recognizable, and the fees will almost never be met, since they would only concern temporary contracts which, in our view, should only be an exception. No additional costs such as basic tax, administrative costs, insurance costs should be covered on tenants, the automatic inflation adjustment in the current form should be decoupled from the rents; and finally, a legal regime must be set which specifies that maintenance costs should be borne by the landlord in the case of fixed-value rents. These are just examples, the catalog is very, very long. The measures must be discussed. However, the objective must be to guarantee more justice in rental law and restore social balance in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e13199	Mr Magnificent came to speak. Stefan. Speaking time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e13221	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! Previously, Mrs Federal Minister Karl and Mr Ikrath held a plea for the legal system in Austria. – I give you absolutely right, that is excellent, in some areas really world peak. I'm just thinking about the basic book, company book, there's nowhere else in the world. However, I find it very interesting – and I hope that at the same time this is also a plea against legal harmonisation at European level, because there is actually a levelling down – that if you have the best or one of the best systems, then there is a harmonisation. What else is going to be better? – For example, the European Union’s inheritance law regulation, where there could be a choice of law. A very complicated system, where one has to clarify which inheritance law is to be applied at all. Or: the enforceability of decisions in the leave process. A Romanian leave process is very different from ours. There one makes a decision that one would never really accept from us, but the result is made enforceable in us, then perhaps even breaks through the principle of registration in the basic book and similar things more. These are all the requirements of the European Union. And I can only hope that, after what you have said today, you will also act together against us, that there will not be any harmonisation in the sense of a levelling down. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] A few more points: Fees. It has already been said that this high level of coverage – 110 percent, if you calculate the execution of the sentence – is unsatisfactory when you see that there is a high obstacle for the population to come to justice. This has to be clearly rethinked. It must be clear, a fee is a remuneration for a service provided by the State, and cannot be an additional tax. It has already been mentioned in the basic book fee, in which registration fee – which has just been discussed – is that no substantial difference should be made here, whether I now register for a property costing €10 000 or €1 million, since the cost is essentially the same. This is a fundamental consideration. On the topic of foot shackles: At the time, we have made a committee statement because all the parties – at least they have done so – were agreed in the Committee that the electronic footbands should not at least be used for sexual offenders. Let's see the result now. Of course, the advance of confidence that we gave at the time is exhausted, and next time we will certainly not be fed off by making a committee statement or similar. We also need to take a closer look at the call for tender in relation to the shackles. There is a report on the Court of Auditors, which has found, among other things, that there was a steering committee that has examined the system that is best. But it is not known who was in this Steering Committee. Secondly, what has been done is not documented. The protocols are missing. This is very strange when it comes to introducing such a system and then it is not at all transparent, not even understandable to the Court of Auditors. As a result, a system that was twice as expensive as the cheapest bidder was taken. That's one. And now that a change to the GPS solution to be expected from the beginning is taking place, there is no invitation to tender – that is, very unsatisfying! There are a few other things that I cannot do, however, because of the time available to my group. In any case, I hope to be reasonable, even now in the course of the reform of the basic book registration fee and other fees. And I hope, above all, that we are allies, that we maintain this legal system in quality.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e13288	Mrs Himmelbauer is speaking. Speaking time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e13309	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to address two objectives set out in the Chapter on the Justice of the Bundesproposal and highlight these two key objectives, which I also consider to be important, on the one hand, to strengthen and increase confidence in our judicial system, on the other hand, in order to develop and improve the system in itself and to address adapted framework conditions: The objective of action 1 is to identify the ‘reliability of legal certainty and legal peace (by means of proposals for adaptation and further development’). – That does not mean that our judicial system is bad – quite the contrary – and in the international comparison we are given a very good witness because we are dealing with the procedures very quickly, and this with a small budget effort. But continuous evaluation and adaptation are necessary in order to respond precisely to the changed framework conditions. And in recent months, a large number of adaptations and innovations have been implemented. This includes, for example, the media transparency law, the lobbyist law, the re-regulation of party financing or the strengthening of disclosure obligation. In all these points, our Federal Minister Karl has worked intensively. - Thank you! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In particular, in the area of corruption, Federal Minister Karl has achieved the necessary adaptations and intensifications, and has also implemented the recommendations of the Council of Europe's Council of States against corruption. It was made clear that an advantage should never be claimed for an official business, and that Criminality has been extended in the event of feeding or affecting the management of the office. The objective of adapting and further developing the legal system with a view to social and economic needs is also mentioned in the Federal Proposal 2013 with a large number of measures. [[President Mag. Prammer is taking over the presidency again.]] Effectiveness Objective 4 provides for the sustainable design of the organisation and the best possible support for our employees in the judicial system. In order to achieve this objective, various measures have also been mentioned. We can also remain here in the fight against corruption and economic crime. ==References== It was planned to extend the jurisdiction of the economic and corruption prosecutors. More tasks, of course, also mean more planning positions for employees, who can also carry out these tasks. Our Mrs. Federal Minister has successfully committed himself to receiving additional 28 planning points for this corruption prosecutorship. Among them are 14 planning offices for prosecutors and seven other planning stations for judges. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] With regard to education and training and in the context of the procedures, a stronger multidisciplinary approach will be forced from 2013 onwards. In addition to the economic law certificate course, the Master of Law course, as Mrs Minister has already mentioned, was introduced. By 2014, 22 participants will be trained to obtain further economic competence. External education and training in economic matters is also provided for as well as internships in companies and economic institutions. And for the future too, prosecutors are often put to the side the necessary expertise and expert opinions in complex investigation procedures. Similarly, cross-sectoral cooperation with executives in Germany and abroad, as well as with the Federal Ministry of Finance and Representatives of the Economy, is being forced.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e13380	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Westenthaler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e13401	Madam President. Mrs. Minister, I am positively surprised if today's announcement that you really want to deal with what we have been demanding for many years, namely to have the criminal law relations reviewed. I think that's a really real step. I am really pleased that you are dealing with this difficult work, because it can be observed that in the population there is no understanding of it when it is actually reported daily in the media about convictions that do not reveal any relation. Mr Grosz referred to the misunderstanding, for example in the case of economic crime or in the case of crimes against body and life or even sexual offences. As far as the footbands are concerned, we have already told you in the committee that we believe that for sexual offenders there should be a general prohibition that this authorisation should not be granted for them. I think that would be a right approach. I know you don't think so. I do not support you, Mrs Minister, that you want to have someone here, because I have also followed that you publicly condemn such acts and also insist on everything that is spoken in individual cases, including in this case, and that a decisive judgment has been passed by the Administrative Court, which you certainly cannot approve. I would ask you, however, to look at a few things in the course of this review. I would like to give you a very clear example, because I believe that what is going on in child protection could really be taken a step further. You have presented today a package of measures to protect children in relation to the fight against domestic violence, which I also very much welcome, but it might also be a proper signal in criminal law to define children as a particularly protective group, as is the case with other groups. I remember, for example, that in executive officials there is no distinction between body injury and serious body injury. They are very conscious – and I emphasize that, that is also true – the group of executive organs by saying that any violation in this direction is, without exception, a serious injury of the body. They thus underline in criminal law the particularly protective group of these people who are committed to security in the country. In the course of your campaign and your desire to protect children, it would be crucial to define this also in criminal law for children. This would be quite easy by looking at §§ 206 and 207 StGB, which concern the sexual abuse of the unmistakable and the severe sexual abuse of the unmistakable. Mrs Minister, what prevents you from bringing these criminal offences together here in the House and generally defining that there is no distinction between “normal” sexual abuse and serious sexual abuse in children, but that any kind of sexual abuse is difficult to suspect in children? [[BZÖ and FPÖ are welcome.]] We therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Mrs Minister, I think that would be in your interest too! That would be a simple exercise in the Criminal Code, but would have a very, very great signal effect and would underline that children are very much worth us, ladies and gentlemen! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I would also like to make a second point because I would have a question. Thank you, together with the Minister of Economic Affairs, on 25 May. Januaryen presented an initiative – you know, there was a discussion – on the issue of high fuel and energy prices, which are still very high. I can tell you, for example, that in the last seven years energy prices per household have on average increased by €3 000 to €4 000; energy prices alone, i.e. heating, energy and cetera. At the time, you presented a measure that is generally correct. You said we're making a turn of evidence. That is, we are obliged to undertake the electricity and gas companies to explain why the price is so high. So far, the authorities have had to do this, now we want to reverse a burden of proof. That was perfectly true of what you did together to the Minister for Economic Affairs. You have presented this, and see, now that – late enough – it comes to Parliament after a three-quarters year, to the next committee, and – and we will discuss it – at once that is gone, deleted! Mr Ikrath, Mr Jarolim, deleted this passage from the amendment to the antitrust law. Are you perhaps lobbyist as a spokesman for energy and electricity prices, Mr Ikrath and Mr Jarolim? I don't understand. Mrs. Minister comes up with a good idea, and you're just putting it out. Mrs Minister, stay. You are hard and insist on this measure in the interests of consumers, so that prices in this country finally fall! [[BZÖ and FPÖ are welcome.]] I don't understand at all, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! It is “the very ones ” who cannot afford to heat up, and Mr Jarolim simply puts this out of the bill. No reversing of the burden of proof, everything in the sense of the big corporations, the electricity price giants, the energy mafia – you play with it everywhere. I don't understand at all. There a minister finally has a good idea, and the abbey Ikrath and Jarolim here in the High House simply do this. I'll tell you what's going to happen. Prices will continue to rise, people will continue to be unable to afford heating, car driving will not be able to afford, and you will bear the responsibility because you have strangled a good idea of a minister here in the House. I don't understand at all, that's a mystery. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Mr Cap, I also do not understand why you are doing this. I think that's the wrong way. It is not at all understandable that one deletes this, and that is why we will fight accordingly. Mrs Minister, I should like to ask you once again to carry out the review of relations, as well as the early release process. In the area of sexual criminal offences, for example, 800 early discharges have been issued over the last six years, and there has always been a relapse. I already know that not everyone will fall back and that there are also some who are no longer at all at risk of relapse, but every individual who has fallen back is a problem, because in turn he draws a whole group of families and stakeholders who have to suffer all their lives. I believe that in the event of early dismissals, especially in the case of sexual offenders, one should look closely and perhaps no longer take this measure in the future, but should block these offenders away for as long as possible. In addition, this is a measure which some judge has already called for, so it is not only we alone. Maybe you can do this, then it all gets a little fairer, a little fairer. The budget itself has a lot of light, I admit. There is more budget, more staff. There are also cases where you have acted very well with your resort; I call the case Eugen Adelsmayr at this point. The Ministry has done very good work and continues to do good work to combat an injustice pronounced by another country. Here you are on a good path. If you act in the same way with the other proposals we have, we are pleased with you, then we can move a lot together.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e13540	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is therefore also under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e13592	Next speaker: Mr Fazekas. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e13613	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) The judicial budget, of course, covers a very wide curve, and it is an art to create a budget that meets all the wishes. We have discussed this many times today. On the one hand, the citizen's wish for a procedure that is handled very quickly, on the other hand, additional staff for anti-corruption, for extensive and very complicated economic procedures – all this costs a lot of money, and for this time it is also necessary, it is also necessary to train. We have already heard today that there are also discussions in many areas about the equipment of the detention centres, also about ensuring that they are not overcrowded. In the end, this leads to the question: What contribution can we make to applying rehabilitation measures? And, of course, this also leads to the question: What does the conditional release look like, and also the discussion, as we have heard several times today, about the electronically monitored house arrest. To this end, I would like to express my wish not to make an event legislation relatively quickly and in the short term, but we have also been stopped to re-examine criminal law, for it should last a long time. On the one hand, we have the problem of having to respond to social developments, but in the end we can also see the consequences. This has to be discussed and taken into account very carefully, and there are, of course, good reasons for us to look at it in general, but especially in the area of sexual offenders. The budget, I think, is nevertheless important and good, because it also takes into account, for example, intentions towards probation aid, association restart, as has already been said today, or also in the direction of boards. Another topic to conclude very briefly: As mayor of Schwechat, I would like to thank you very much for the excellent cooperation with the Justice Centre in Schwechat. I would like to extend this thanks to the employees there. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e13653	Mr Lausch is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e13675	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! A lot has already been done. I should like to refer to the last sentence of your remarks, Mrs Federal Minister. They have rightly said that it is important to strengthen the confidence of the people in justice. It's very nice when you say that, if you live that too, it's much better. Unfortunately, this has not been the case lately. I would also like to say very briefly – it has already been said a lot about it – your behavior, your rather unhappy behavior in the incidents with the foot shackle. This, I say, does not, in my view, exactly count on how to imagine strengthening the confidence of the people in justice. It is justifiable if you create new family law planning sites for the fight against corruption in the budget presented. That's good, although I think that's too little. Less or not well, and this is bad, it is about the execution of the sentence, and therefore my question to you: What did the execution of the sentence do to you, Mrs. Federal Minister? You notice very strongly in your office that the execution of the penalty is really a stepchild. They're making plans, but they're not in execution. For executives in this area, five planning points are suddenly reduced in the new budget. They also preach water and drink wine. I can only remind you that there has been a red staff representative since 2010 – I am not going back now – who has said that the Austrian judicial service lacks 300 plan posts. It hasn't done anything since, it's gotten even worse and not better. I'm even going on and I'm saying at least 300 planning points are missing. Last summer – you know it very well – there was another media debate that you – and this throws your own trade union before your black staff representatives – should end up thinking about the Stein judicial body. This is certainly significant for you if your own staff representation It is more or less quoted as a local eye-to-eye after stone; so it was in the “NÖN”, nor was it a blue party leaf. We have put hopes in you, but I must say, and please, Mrs Federal Minister, do not be angry with me, these hopes are of course very, very negative if you do not take this seriously, if you say that in Stein at least 40 judicial officers are missing. They simply go here – and delete five planning points in the new budget. I mean, this is certainly not the right way to strengthen the confidence of the people in justice, in security. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I think you would have to take quite different measures in order to achieve more effect, and in this context I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! This motion for a resolution is very, very important to me, because in 2010, red staff representatives in the media – in the "standard" of 17. March 2010 to read – said it is five to twelve, there are at least 300 judicial guards missing, and now, in August 2012, it was black personnel representatives. Now, ladies and gentlemen of Red and Black, you can prove that you take the concerns of your staff representatives seriously, or you do it like the Mrs. Federal Minister, promise the blue from heaven, then keep nothing at the end of the day and step your staff representatives who work on the base, for the people, for the simple staff, with feet and don't take it seriously. With this motion for a resolution, ladies and gentlemen, you can prove yourself. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e13759	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e13820	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Maier. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e13842	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! The Committee of Justice or the Assembly has dealt several times with questions of experts in judicial proceedings. We have discussed the quality of expert opinions on the one hand, but on the other hand we have repeatedly discussed the costs of judicially sworn experts, in particular in the field of economic criminal offences in connection with criminal proceedings. We discussed the issue of experts, particularly in the field of family law, in the Justice Committee. In recent years – I would like to say – it has become known that misrepresentation, incorrect opinions have led to a terrible result. I recall the expert opinion that released a criminal criminal, who then raped a woman. On the other hand, in criminal proceedings, we are faced with conflicts with the experts and with the costs of justice. I am very grateful to you, Mrs Bundesminister, for giving me a clear answer to my budget question, which of the experts have already been involved in the proceedings against Julius Meinl. I would like to quote this because it will also be of great interest to the house: "Up until now, a total of EUR 1 560 854,42 has been transferred to the five experts in the investigation procedure of the Vienna Public Prosecutor's Office against Julius Meinl and others. The costs of an expert of around EUR 600 000 have already been determined by the Court of First Instance. The other experts have received cost advances so far.” Mrs Bundesminister, Mr Hohes Haus, I believe that we will have to deal not only with the costs of the experts in the future, but in particular with the quality of expert advice, particularly in the field of family law.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e13887	Now comes Mrs Mag. Steßl-Mühlbacher. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e13908	Madam President. Estimated Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! High house! It is to be welcomed that, in the judicial budget of the 93 new planning posts, 20 planning posts are going directly to family jurisdiction, and in this context I would also like to focus on what reforms are necessary in family law. We are already discussing a reform package in the Committee on Justice on Tuesday. However, I would like to point out something that we have already discussed in the Committee, namely the maintenance advance. It is still true that just single-parents are threatened with poverty, and especially the children are then experiencing the negative consequences of this poverty. We have already innovationd the maintenance advance in the 2010 UVG. You have answered me in the Committee that you are currently working on family law reform, and if that is done, you can turn to this subject area. I also asked the Minister for Family Affairs a question. I already have positive signals from him that he is also interested in a cooperation. I would really ask you, Mrs Federal Minister, to devote yourself to this project too, because it is now time, especially for the weakest in society, to do something so that children can receive their support. That's why I'm asking you to fight. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e13945	Next speaker: Mr Wittmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e13966	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! High house! First of all: Of course, it is to be said that there is a need for human resources to strengthen the justice sector. It is also very positive to mention that NEWART is equipped with more resources. I would like to draw only three groups of problems from our side, which also belong to a budget debate. I am with Mr Steinhauser because I also believe that a fee budget should be cost-effective and not profitable. And if you are already talking about charging for acquittal costs, especially in huge procedures, such as the animal protection procedure in Wiener Neustadt, then I also think that in this case you are replacing these costs that have arisen, because that also serves the case law and because it was ultimately a false charge. That is to say, it is actually the task of the state to take over this. But I am not of the opinion of Mr Steinhauser on many questions. We have set a way for us to make social policy on criminal provisions. I think this is fundamentally wrong. [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. Dr. Fichtenbauer.]] We are criminalizing too much, and we should return to that we are To make social policy on laws that do not take place exclusively on criminal terms. I think that's a massive exaggeration. And the third question I have to ask is: I also think that there is a disproportionate relationship between punishment for crimes against body and life and punishment for property crimes. I think it is preferable to find a balance on the value of the profits achieved, because this would have a much better effect, first of all on compensation for damages, second, on the punishment of the person who has gained an asset advantage. I believe that there should be too many sanctions in society's policy and that there should be a better relationship between punishment for property offences and punishment for crimes against body and life. I could list some examples of the practice that are hardy. There, the area of justice should be developed in a social-political way.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e14014	I am no longer able to speak on the sub-division of justice. This is the end of this subject area. [[15:25:55]] UG 12: Externals
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e14036	We are now entering the negotiations of the UG 12: Outwards. First of all, Mr Hübner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e14060	Madam President. The Minister is not here yet. Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! This UG 12: On the other hand, we have to look at the costs in particular, because this is not about services for citizens – or at least very limited. If one leaves away consular activities – that is service to the citizen – this is essentially about the Republic’s self-representation, the involvement of the Republic in international organisations, forums and conventions, and also about the so-called international solidarity. We also need to pay attention to the following: The impact of foreign policy is not limited to UG 12 alone, but has consequences that are massively reflected in other budgets. We only heard a little story today: This accession to the so-called United Nations Anti-Folter Convention has caused 2.9 million costs by having to make this amount available to the public prosecutor every year so that it can perform the tasks contained there. That is, our membership of the UN Human Rights Committee, which we received a few years ago, has led us to sign this Additional Protocol to the Anti-Folter Convention, although it does not make sense for us to monitor torture in our prisons. Those who should have signed it have not signed it, namely the torture states, and we now have 2.9 million € in costs for monitoring the alleged torture in our prisons. So the effects of foreign policy go far beyond this €450 million we are talking about here. Of course, €450 million includes membership of 96 international conventions and organizations, where we pay, and much more. Now, in concrete terms, to the budget, to the objectives of impact. One should believe that in a budget post, where it is not really about service or service to citizens, one must have particularly clear goals and explain in particular what it is about. But that's missing. When we look at the objectives of action: That is blurry, unclear and unrelated to the things that then come as enforcement measures. However, I am now taking out only the objective of action 4, which is the so-called development cooperation, i.e. cooperation with other countries and societies. We have a position of 82 million. Of this 12 million are going away again, that is the flatrate internal administration, which will be paid separately, so 72, 73 million are left. 72, 73 million for an effective objective, such as the international fight against poverty and the international production of democracy, and so on, are not very large amounts, I admit. Nevertheless, I am no one who says that we have to double, triple or quadruple, but I mean, that's still too much. Why is that so? – This is because one is unable to use these amounts in a meaningful way, namely concentrated. One should think, 72 million €, because we might be working in one country or in two countries, in two fields. Perhaps we are doing water management in two countries, an Asian, an African, or just one country, and otherwise we are working together with other existing structures. - But no. When I take into account the three-year programme of Austrian development policy – and all those who do development cooperation have done so – I see priority regions and states. There are once West Africa and the Sahel region, then East Africa and the Horn of Africa and southern Africa come together, summarizing the entire Black Africa, 1 billion people. [[Call for the call.]] – Why you don't say Black Africa, I don't know. But it's not over yet, the 1 billion is not enough for our 72 million. Then come the South Caucasus and the Black Sea region, the Western Balkans and the Danube, the occupied Palestinian territories, Himalayas, Hindus and the Caribbean. So I'm missing only South America, part of Asia and Antarctica, of course. Otherwise, I don't miss anything. There, of course, we need to program and develop strategy – and this is what is interesting for many people now. So if you look at page 25 of this three-year program, you'll find an eight-stage way of evaluating and programming here. This begins when assessing the current starting situation and goes up to the annual progress reports, mid-term review with partners and necessary adjustments if necessary. I am saving you what is written between points 1 and 8, that is, in points 2 to 7. You could imagine exactly what kind of bureaucracy is being done here. However, these funds not only make administrative bureaucracy, but also become a lot of development tourism, one could almost say, or run developmental views. Colorful booklets are published like this, for example: “Parliamentarians in the North-South Dialogue”. [[The speaker holds up papers.]] This is one of the 72, 73 million we have. This is supported by the funds of Austrian development cooperation, from this 72 million pot. If you browse in this booklet, you will see some colleagues here in the hall on beautiful colorful pictures with people from Mozambique and so on. I'm out here. But no one and don't put anyone on the prange here. But you will also see what else there is to other organizations that sit in Austria, conference, evaluate, speak and so on, travel of course – travel is very important – and all of them huddle. Summary: This is not the way we want to use our tax money. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If already development cooperation, then efficient, oriented and not for the self-representation of dozens or hundreds of people working here, whether in the public sector, or in the NGOs sector. We have therefore tabled a motion for a resolution concerning the whole of the division 12 which I can read briefly: “The competent members of the Federal Government may take all necessary measures – at national, as at international level – to: reduce the costs for the Austrian representative authorities abroad vis-à-vis other countries; drastically reduce the ODA-related expenditure of the Republic of Austria until an efficient system is established; significantly reduce contributions to international organisations; to significantly reduce the contributions of the Republic of Austria to the European Union.’; The reasons for everything that is not development cooperation have been given in the discussions over the last one and a half years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e14172	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e14246	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Cortolezis defeat. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e14267	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mr State Secretary! High house! Dear Seers! The new budget of European and foreign policy shows once again that European and foreign policy is starting here in Austria, starting here for the citizens. and citizens. When we look at the impact targets that this newly-divided budget includes, we see that the focus is on the citizens of Austria, their concerns, their legal certainty abroad and the protection of this legal certainty abroad and on the other hand the taking over of Austrian responsibility for conflict-free, peace-making measures worldwide. We want to help shape Europe, we want to make our contribution in the world to make our social model liveable to all citizens worldwide. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This very ambitious programme, which Mr Vice-Chancellor, together with his place of business, has been set against the background of a consolidation budget. This is a spatula that is difficult and that can only be done with the staff members, with our foreign representations, which – and especially a small budget like that of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has not as much scope – make it possible to create synergies and to think about how they can organise their own representation even more effectively using the European foreign services. Therefore, a warm thanks to the staff members who have helped to make their contribution to consolidation. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] When we look at this budget, we see that Austria assumes responsibility in the area of re-designing the EU. I should also like to congratulate the Vice-Chancellor on the impulses he has only recently been able to give to the redesign of the European Union. It is exactly what we need: a redesign, As a result of this responsibility for the Community, the individual Member State assumes responsibility for complying with the rules in each Member State. This starts with legal certainty. This begins with the certainty that people are employed, well trained. However, this also begins with the question of access to sustainable renewable energy and also in the legal protection of human rights, of women's rights, of girls' rights. I therefore believe that the dialogue of cultures and religions is a very important impulse even in the coming years. It is important to develop Austria as a centre of competence and to provide further impetus for the European Union and for the United Nations. This will be easier with this chapter. Retranslations have been made. Development policy and our responsibility in this area were also ensured in the offensive. In other words, Austria remains a reliable partner in the humanitarian field and tries to save there where it concerns administrative areas where synergies with Europe and the European External Service are concerned. What do we want? . We want the accession negotiations with the new Member States to be progressed, based on the experience that has been gained so far. Austria has already made important contributions to the enlargement of the European Union between the EU-15, the EU-17 and the EU-27 in the past. We will also bring in these experiences in the future. Therefore: Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Dear employees of the resort! Thank you very much! Keep active with energy and strength in the cultural, scientific, social and foreign policies! Keep Austria's interests around the world!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e14332	Now comes Mrs Mag. Korun to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e14354	Madam President. Dear gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear guests on the gallery and Watchers in front of the screens! The objectives of the Ministry's budget have been addressed several times. I would also like to start with these objectives. In principle, we welcome the fact that in the new budget, in the forthcoming budget, effective targets will be formulated in all sectors, so that the departments will also consider themselves: What do you want to achieve with this budget, what are the concrete objectives? This will also achieve a certain measureability of what you have achieved after this year. We have had a discussion in the Committee with the Federal Minister on these objectives, because we believe they are very unambitious, in many areas. For example, if you look at human rights initiatives, you can see: They should remain the same in numbers and in the same areas. However, if you look at the planned impact targets for economic activities starting from the external sector, you can see a leap up there. What the Minister said in the committee was quite interesting. He talked about it, well, we're doing very good work. The fact is that the staff of the department that the Diplomatic Corps is very successful and very committed on the road is a fact. At this point also recognition, thanks and praise from the Greens for this dedicated work done by diplomats and diplomats in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of officials and officials. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] However, it is true that, I believe, there is no organization and no institution around the world, which is not worthy of improvement, can improve where there is no air up. If one looks at the human rights initiatives that we can take as a member of the UN Human Rights Council, then they are welcome, but in this context I also have a specific criticism. Mr Federal Minister, we still miss clear statements, clear announcements and a clear criticism of you towards Russia, towards Mr Putin. Pussy Riot is only briefly mentioned here: the three women who were brought to trial for political actionism; two of them have now been put in labour camps. There are no clear words from you to this day. There are also no clear words when legislation is passed in Russia that civil society organisations are declared so-called spies when they get support from abroad. That's where we miss clear words from you. This certainly undermines our opportunities as an active EU member, but also as a member of the UN Human Rights Council. The second point I would like to address is the misunderstanding between the field of foreign policy and the field of foreign policy planning. This is a misunderstanding that looks so much less important to international organisations, such as sub-organisations, sub-organisations of the United Nations, as well as to development cooperation that has come to mind today, that this area now weighs far less than foreign policy planning, than the funds allocated to the Central and Foreign Offices. Of course, we are aware that we have certain savings in the budget, that is undisputed, but if you look at the savings, it is noted that two thirds of the savings in the external area are due to development cooperation. Unfortunately, it is a very weak comfort to say that since 2011 we have had a ballast in development cooperation, but for the coming year we are looking forward to € 6.6 million more and once again prevent the worst for the coming year as far as development cooperation is concerned. However, it is much more rare to mention that at the same time €4 million are specifically intended for the State Secretariat in the Foreign Office and for press work. It has required a parliamentary written request to establish transparency in order to find that € 2 million of this additional €4 million is intended for press work, and if you put this in relation to €6.6 million, which the Federal Government has provided for heavy heart for development cooperation, we believe that this is in a blatant disproportionate relationship with each other and cannot be that way. As you know, last year there was also an action by developmentist NGOs, who have clearly said that these cuts in development cooperation mean 3,000 lives. There is still criticism, and one will certainly not be able to cope with this criticism by saying: We take back a little bit from what we have deleted, at the same time we approve 2 million € for PR and press work – but we do not say that loudly, but we only praise that we have taken back the planned deletions. All in all, we find neither the objectives of impact nor the planned division between the areas of foreign policy planning and foreign policy measures satisfactory. We also wish and expect more activities in the area of human rights, and we expect this wrong situation to be overcome: When it comes to economic interests, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is very quick on the ground, but when it comes to human rights concerns, it is not. Finally, I would like to mention the visit of President Nasarbayev from Kazakhstan and how he was received here with open arms, although a few weeks earlier, strenuous workers were shot down by security forces. This was obviously not a matter at all for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, because it concerns massive economic interests. This situation must be overcome; however, this is not just a question of the budget, that is clear, but there is a lot to do. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e14433	Mr Klubobmann, Dr. Cap, is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e14454	I would like to take a positive view of the fact that there is a consensus on development cooperation and that we want to make a greater contribution, because our contribution is not really great in comparison. Second point: I think this is a good opportunity to have a fundamental debate on the self-understanding of Austrian foreign policy, Mr Vice-Chancellor and Foreign Minister. This is also imposed on the For example, the question of where there are messages, where they are not, whether we merge entirely with the EU or not. I myself feel that we should not pursue a melting strategy, but rather set priorities and argue about that. This, of course, still includes a self-understanding of messages. It cannot be that the messages are exclusively and primarily branches of the Chamber of Commerce, which has its own offices. But it is quite a task of messages that they are helpful that they also obtain information that they make analyses, assessments. This must, of course, go beyond the Internet information and have its own quality, which is certainly the case with the dedicated officials. Your service, assistance, visa and so on is clear anyway, but this focus is at least important. In this context, I also think it is crucial that you not only think Eurocentrically. – It's very important: What is our special role in Europe? Of course, it will be noted that Germany, France and individual other countries are such a kind of power centre, but of course also the immediate neighbouring countries, which are politically in close relations with us, but also preferred areas of investment. Of course, it will never have such a quality as Mrs Ferrero-Waldner once misrepresented that she invited the representatives of the former chandeliers. There has actually been nothing worth noting, because after centuries of these invitations the nose was full and this kind of organization is different. This is no longer the case, but it is of course the right thing, because it is a closer and clear relationship and perhaps also a network that can also be a certain weighting. However, it must be noted that one has special contacts between Berlin and Paris without becoming a political dependency, even if there are close economic relationships. Our commitment to the UN can open up opportunities to us, to the point that, as a country that traditionally has no global claim of power but a neutral self-understanding, we can play a role as a mediator in the Middle East at that time, and where we can offer ourselves – perhaps even more – in this area for peace policy and for the basis of discussion, although this is not easy. We should not let the Arab Spring pass. The Mediterranean region is also of great importance to us. That is Europe, that is the European Union. It is now important that the structure is strengthened, and not that one should fall into an infinite development and expansion philosophy. Eastern Europe – yes, but also the Mediterranean region should be taken into account, and I believe there are traditions wherever we can offer ourselves – which does not mean that we do not take Latin America, Asia into account in a certain sense. What I would personally appreciate – but I know that we are financially limited – is to present something like the Austrian cultural identity, the Austrian, so to speak. The French do this exemplaryly with their school institutions, with their cultural institutions, with their attempt to support the language too. Austria can also make a contribution. One should consider whether the combination of culture and message à la longue of wisdom must be the final conclusion. I believe that the representation of what we are and what we stand for, and the propaganda of our so exemplary and Foreignly so praised social models would also be part of the self-understanding of an Austrian foreign policy, that is to say a specific role that makes us so to speak – I almost coke – bigger than we are.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e14515	Mr Scheibner has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e14536	Madam President. Foreign Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I am always very happy to listen to Mr Cap so that I can get some arguments to which I refer and replicate him – in opposition, in friendly opposition. I am not going to succeed today, nor should I succeed, because I can really stress it in many parts, especially when it comes to removing the independent role of Austrian foreign policy. I think that is very important. Austria is a member of the European Union, but that does not mean that we should always hear and look at what the others say and where we can agree, so that we can only not stand alone with a single opinion. On the contrary: I believe that outside the European Union – and Mr Cap has mentioned it – especially the Arab countries, but increasingly also countries in Africa Austria would like to see or perceive as a bridge between these regions and Europe, the European Union. I am not so much aware that our status or former status of neutrality helps us – which is largely unknown and also meaningless – but it is clear that we do not have global interests. This is interesting: that we are a small, independent member country of the European Union, and in this function – and this would also be a bit identical if one asked what the citizen has of this membership in the European Union – it can also be our role to be a bridge between different regions, especially crisis regions, and Europe. Only: Of course, we also need to develop our own, sometimes courageous line and sometimes vote when some of the great people in the European Union – France, Great Britain and others – simply try to bring their often global goals into the European Union and take us all into hostagery. When I look at the Arab Spring, we all wish that dictatorships and despots disappear, that everywhere in the world, where it is possible, democracy and the rule of law, but – and that is the great But – one must then look in practice at the implementation of these high goals whether people are going to be better afterwards or in the meantime than before. And here I have my doubts as to whether the implementation – not the principle of removing dictatorships, but the question of implementation – has always been the right one. Let us look at the current situation in Iraq: Is it better for people there – that is, daily – now? You can say: Hurra, you can choose now and there is no more dictatorship! - Wonderful, that's good! But if people are living conditions, is people's safety really better now than before? - Unquestionably. Is the situation better in Libya now than before? - Unquestionably. Is the situation in Syria – also the prospects for this country, for people in this country – better now than before? - Unquestionably. It would also be important for Austria to send a clear signal to Europe with regard to a European foreign policy, which unfortunately is only rudimentary. It would also be interesting if one could speak with a strong European voice. How far away are we from that?- Oh, my God! There we should also express the principle that we will never accept – no matter who and where – violence to enforce political goals and that we will not look away in a twinkling way when atrocities are committed on one side, where one says, well, but they are somehow with us who support, the country is a friend who will be recognized, any opposition troops, and there is no way to look at exactly what one rightly criticizes on the other. To the dialogue: In this case, I don't understand the Greens saying that they can't talk to this one, you can't talk to that one, and the dialogue centre is nothing, because the wrong ones stand behind it. – You can't always choose that. And what is the alternative? I do not believe that with isolation, with sanctioning, with exclusion, one achieves something, but only with dialogue; of course also with pressure, but also by giving groups in the respective countries perspectives and, above all, maintaining the conversation. Whoever speaks to each other, Mrs Korun, is not shooting at each other. I believe that this principle must be followed, even if it does not always work, until the last moment, one must try to prevent violence through dialogue. And I just expected the greens to do that. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Finally, Mr Foreign Minister, there is something relevant about the budget: There was a little confusion yesterday about the negotiations on the EU budget, which, of course, also have an impact on the Austrian budget, and you play an important role together with your State Secretary. You know, as I have already said in the Committee, we support your now announced attitude that the discount – 170 million, I think, per year – will be defended accordingly on our membership contribution. We want the contributions to be lowered. They also called agriculture – also important, wonderful. It would only be important for us to perhaps also create scope for our organic farmers and miners to be supported by national measures, because we are causing agricultural lobbys and agricultural factories in the various countries to give up their costs in favour of our agriculture, which is rather unlikely. But: Yesterday in the debate there were doubts as to whether this is the common line of the Federal Government. The Federal Chancellor has said that we will not achieve anything with a veto, and there has also been doubts in his own ranks, Mr Foreign Minister. There were even Members who said that they should pay more, and that should then be put into a fund where any projects are being developed. So we hope that the line you mentioned will prevail, but it will be successful until the end, that – Mr Grossruck – we will no longer enter the EU pot as before, but, on the contrary, the contribution should be reduced. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Großruck]] At least the contribution should be made to rural areas. economics and our discount are also defended, if necessary with a veto threat.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e14645	Next speaker: Mr Glaser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e14673	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mr State Secretary! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) In principle, the budget of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs shows that the savings targets that this ministry also had to meet have been implemented. The 2013 budget is around €20 million lower than in 2012. This is achieved through a stop-up, lower expenses on travel or rent, but also by reducing contributions to international organisations. I find it all the more remarkable and grateful that the budget for bilateral development cooperation, with a reduction of € 6.6 million planned, remains at the level of 2012. I believe that this is a real act of solidarity with the weakest countries in the world, and I would like to thank you very much, Mr Vice-Chancellor and Mr State Secretary. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Of course, Austria's development cooperation is first and foremost an act of solidarity. I only take out one of the Millennium's objectives: the fight against hunger. There has indeed been a lot of success in recent years, but still a billion people, every seventh person on this planet, are starving, and it is therefore important that we continue to accept these goals. The rare thing about this is that, for example, hunger is particularly happening in rural areas, because droughts and other disasters are becoming the first thing to do here. I therefore believe that it is absolutely necessary for us to focus more on rural development in the context of development cooperation than before, and I am also grateful that this has experienced a special weighting in the new three-year programme. Development cooperation is aimed at simply taking local needs into account and enabling development through self-help. Successful development creates confidence. Trust, on the other hand, is a prerequisite and reason for any further partnerships in the field of the economy. In the end, it is the economic partnerships that can advance development and be of mutual benefit. Consider only the example of the Asian region, which in principle was still at a very low level in terms of economic and other parameters of development 20 and 30 years ago. Today it is the most dynamic economic area with the largest growth rates at all. The same is to be expected from Africa, which is already a good and important market in essential areas and also has great resources. That is, I personally believe that economic partnerships should play a much greater role in the area of development cooperation. It is also true that development partnerships are particularly forced by those countries that fulfil their ODA ratios, which account for 0.7 percent, or exceed them, simply because they recognize that it is important not only for reasons of solidarity, but also for ourselves, for the developed countries. That's a chance. It is this mutual opportunity to see this partnership, and I therefore invite both the liberals and the BZO to join the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Bayr in order to increase the EZA funding – the other political groups will be grateful. One more word on the means of disaster, which are also anchored in the EZA area. Austria has already provided assistance in various areas this year, whether it be the refugees in the Syrian Civil War, or the hungry in the Sahel zone. As far as I am aware, some assistance is being prepared for Syria and other countries. This too is an important point of our development cooperation. Last but not least, a word about the three-year programme, which is not now being rewritten annually, is a real three-year programme – for example now from 2013 to 2015 – which is partly re-structured and has new priorities. But for me, it is particularly remarkable that there is a joint declaration of will here, which is preceded by this programme, where all developmental actors have worked together with the Ministry to develop a wording that expresses what they are confessing: that we are moving forward together and that we are working together to achieve the best possible benefit for those who are to benefit from it. So in total, I think, a very good and forward-looking process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e14740	Mrs Kaufmann-Bruckberger has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e14761	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! Yes, Mr Vice-Kanzler, at the legendary clause in Loipersdorf you yourself have ordered a strict saving course, but this very saving course has been a little tedious in the last two budgets. Nevertheless, it is to be seen as positive that there will be savings, for example in the less expenditure in the central office as well as in the reduction of travel costs. It also welcomes the reduction of the financial representation bodies in the field of consulates as well as the conversion of the Honorary Consulates to a voluntary activity. I do not believe that it is for the taxpayer to finance more than one representation in a country that can, so to speak, be called the first world country. That is why it is not quite understandable, however, why we have three Austrian representations in New York. We would like to support you by winning Austrian entrepreneurs abroad for volunteering here too, because it is also these entrepreneurs abroad who can bring in their contacts, but also their experiences and thus also secure Austrian jobs and also create prosperity. [[Abg. Oil: Frank!]] [[Further calls:Frank]] - That's right! But what does it look like in general? – In principle, the EU, the credit rating agencies and also the Austrians are presented with figures that do not then hold. You also have the impression that you are not really behind it. And that is why, in my opinion, this government has caused the worst budget deficit the Republic has ever seen. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Mr. Federal Minister, you also praise the fact that despite a hard savings course – as you see the budget – there will not be any reductions in development cooperation. This is not correct because in this 2013 budget you are selling the partial withdrawal from the withdrawal as an offensive measure of the Federal Government in development cooperation. One can now see the actual management qualities of the government. [[Abg. Großruck: You are a very strict one! You're going to court hard!]] [[Ironic Holiness of the Abg. Grandruck.]] It is also the taxpayers who are entrusted to the government or whom we must entrust to you. Mr Federal Minister, I would say now: Why don't you just use it? Your office to take a political course in which you can personally measure your achievements. You are currently using your office more to juggle with numbers. As far as the European Union is concerned, I would add that the European Commission's proposal also means that Austria will have to accept further debt. As part of the commitment appropriations of € 1.033 billion, as many binding commitments are to be made. Austria is receiving the European Union's free letter for a further debt of €45 billion. More debt means more taxes – means lower income – means a loss of wealth. We are convinced that people in this country can be told the truth. We don't need numbers acrobatics, we need truth. We confess to the truth, for only the one who knows the truth has the opportunity to make a good and right decision.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e14833	Mr Spindelegger has now spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e14855	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I'm allowed to go to the budget. In principle, maintain the following basic principles: We will make a total savings of €20 million in 2013 compared to 2012. This is certainly the contribution that we have to make in this context of the savings contribution that each resort has to make, and that is to be guaranteed. And that is also what we do by saving most of the money on the structure, namely €11.4 million. That's our mission, but it's difficult, I say it quite openly. I am also in favour of the fact that, as Mr Klubobmann Cap says, we do not further merge our representative authorities, but we must also cut back there and there, where we still have opportunities in a country. We will save general consulates in Krakow and Chicago next year. But there we have other representative authorities that have to take over this work. And so it is in all areas. When we say we're shortening service trips, our staff in the messages will have to observe the dates, and, and, and. There's a lot of creative work going on. But most – and I can hold on to that again – goes towards saving in the structure and not at the expense of some NGOs. Whoever claims this is just not right. It's important to me to hold that down. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We look forward to the second block of savings in our compulsory contributions and voluntary contributions. If the UN is no longer carrying out a mission, as in Sudan, we are saving ourselves something, because we automatically as a Foreign Minister have to contribute to the contributions to UN Blue Helmets missions, and then that is not the case. Fortunately, this is the case for the next year, so we can save a little bit. However, we will also have to cut down on voluntary contributions, there will be nothing to spare us, and we will try this very carefully in an area where we have not directly established an international organization in Austria. On the contrary: That's where we want to expand. I have managed that I have also taken the decision of UN Secretary General Ban Ki-moon to establish a completely new organization of the UN, “Sustainable Energy for All”, in Vienna. This will happen soon. We will also provide this organisation in Vienna, which will ensure that we give a very different priority to renewable energy in particular, with appropriate resources – but not we Austrians, but the UN will take care of it; we will take care of office spaces. I think this is a very good addition to our organisations. This also applies to the Austrian focus on the exercise of supremacy in the field of renewable energy. That's a good addition. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Let me address some of the questions raised here in the course of the discussion. I do not agree with Mrs Korun in many ways, of course. But especially as regards human rights, you have completely mistook it. We are members of the United Nations Human Rights Council. We have set three priorities. These are our priorities that we have chosen! And I'll hold that one again: For me, it is important to represent the freedom of religion worldwide as Austria, all kinds of religious freedom. [[Abg. Grandruck: In every country!]] You don't like that, but I'm very good. I think that is absolutely necessary, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Wenninger.]] If some find that this happens especially against Christian persecution in all these countries – yes, ladies and gentlemen: 70 percent of all persecutions for religious differences affect Christians! This can also be said with a call mark, and that is why we will also strengthen it, also within the framework of the Human Rights Council. [[It was in favour of the ÖVP as well as of representatives of FPÖ and BZÖ.]] They have criticised the fact that we do not raise our voices when it comes to the issue of human rights violations. - You seem to have missed that. We reported on the arrest of Pussy Riot's members. We reported on the decision against Pussy Riot. But you do not find that in the headline of the “Kronen Zeitung”, you must note that will not be the case in the future. But that's where we're doing our job. Of course: Whoever commits such human rights violations is also criticized by us. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, as the development cooperation has been discussed by some in particular: Yeah, I'm in favour, we decided to have a savings path in Loipersdorf. We have reversed this for the next year by this €6 million, or a little more, €6.6 million. Yes, you can say: Thank you! There, too, the Greens, who constantly criticize, we are doing too little, can say: That's it! - But I don't hear that from you. If we take such a step, I'll just hear: It's still far too little. Ladies and gentlemen, you can only do one thing or the other. We are now saying: We stay at the level of what we had in 2012, we do so in 2013. That's a good, right way. I support it. But I can't give you the promise for the next 20 years. I can't do that. But I agree that bilateral development cooperation should also be promoted. That is why we have made it that way. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: That is where we meet again during the discussions on the four-year financial framework!]] Mr Scheibner referred to the question of Arab spring, whether this has brought about something for all. – I would look at this very differently. I was in Cairo yesterday at the meeting of the European Foreign Ministers with the Arab Foreign Ministers. I would say yes, as far as Tunisia is concerned, but I would say no, as far as Egypt is concerned. Especially in Egypt, we see that the expectations of those who have demonstrated there are far from fulfilled. But democracy is not something to be introduced from one day to another. This is a laborious path that needs to be taken here. I have used my speech in this forum, above all, to address, in particular, human rights and the question of co-operation in the form of dialogue. Because that's it: We are also affected if there are not long-term structures that are characterised by stability, but if there are still such differences there and with this there are movements of migration and people are also persecuted. I met with the one who is currently responsible for the Copts before being inthroned on Sunday of the new Pope. And he also made it clear to me how little movement opportunities there are for this group in Egypt. And I criticize that exactly where it belongs: the Foreign Minister of Egypt, the Secretary-General of the Arab League, in the forum where we sit together to do our tasks together. Secondly, they also discussed the question of rural development and discount on the multiannual financial framework. – Yes, you see how necessary it is for us as Austrians to put on the table clearly what we want. It is unacceptable for rural development to be reduced by 30 percent last night compared to the previous plans. And it is not acceptable for us either, if there is no discount for Austria at all, but for others. That is why we are putting our feet on the feet, ladies and gentlemen, and of course we will be very much represented in the negotiations with the European Union, not at all. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mrs Kaufmann-Bruckberger – she has already left the hall – is still referring to what we are doing in New York in the future. [[Call BZÖ: She's with the boss!]] Yes, I am also open to the fact that, where we have three local representations – General Consulate, Cultural Forum and so to speak, representation to the United Nations – we can also create some synergies. That is exactly what we are looking at today, just as we are in Rome, just as we are in Brussels. We will be promoting a number of opportunities for the next few years. But in general, I am against the fact that we now block messages everywhere. We want to be there for Austrian citizens worldwide, that is our motto. And they also need our support when it gets serious. And they also thank us – I get so many letters because our citizens feel represented on the spot. This is also a good sign for the Republic of Austria. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] That, ladies and gentlemen, is clear: We meet our requirements. In the area of bilateral development cooperation, we have made some improvements to the proposals. That's what I'm talking about. This is clearly what we are trying to do, so that we can also put something on the table in the area of bilateral development cooperation. But in general, my house is well positioned because we have very great employees. They don't watch the clock, but they do their job from early to late. And a warm thank you for that too!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e14992	Now comes Mrs Mag. Muttons. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e15013	Madam President. Mr. Foreign Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I should like to say a good greeting to the students of the Sportgymnasium Maroltingergasse. [[Congratulations on MEPs from SPÖ, ÖVP and FPÖ.]] Even though the four-year consolidation plan in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has again made savings and they have become necessary, it is gratifying that this year – it has already been mentioned – bilateral cooperation could be increased by €6 million. This is a good news, but this is not enough in the long term. We now have to ensure that there is a clear trend change in this area, because in recent years, development cooperation has had to contribute much to the savings in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. In this context, we have discussed intensively in the Committee whether parts of the very high reserves of €69.8 million could not be transferred to the EZA. You have rejected this year, Mr Foreign Minister, because you say that these reserves could or should be used for the cost of a possible UN mission in Syria. It certainly makes sense to hold back and deposit money for such operations, but I think that should be done better in a pot that is also marked for this purpose. For their lack of a clear allocation, €69.8 million is clearly too high. [[Vice chancellor Dr. Spindelegger: But at the Federal Chancellery, at the same height, you find no criticism, don't you?]] – I am now talking about foreign policy. [[Vice chancellor Dr. Spindelegger: Oh, that's it! Sorry! It's different!]] With regard to voluntary contributions to projects by international organisations, I welcome your promise to exclude the children and women from cuts. I believe that strengthening the protection and rights of women and children in crisis regions is a fundamental prerequisite for a sustainable peace and security policy. And as far as international policy is concerned beyond international organisations and bodies, we have also done a good job here in recent years, especially in the Balkans. But I think you have to look further – Mr Klubobmann Cap has already referred to the Mediterranean region. I simply believe that foreign policy goes much further than to our neighbouring countries. We must be careful not to save too much on our demands in addition to the necessary cuts in money. So Africa, the Middle East and the Middle East must keep an eye on Austria and must not be primarily represented by the economy there, because developments in this area are also important for our security and for our future. The situation in these countries, as we have already heard today, is anything but stable. Syria, for example, is increasingly breaking down into a cruel civil war. The Assad regime will probably not be able to keep up. The international community must therefore prepare itself for the next time. Austria has many skills and qualifications to help stabilise there. Consider, for example, the proposal by Minister of Defense Darabos to provide Austrian specialists for the destruction of chemical weapons of mass destruction in Syria, should Syria wish to do so after Assad. That was very positive. I think that in this sense we can also bring in the competences of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e15069	Mr Neubauer has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e15091	Madam President. Dear gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! In view of the dramatic events and developments in recent times, I am not in a position to deal with the situation in South Tyrol today in plenary because we are committed to fulfilling our task as a protective force under international law. I would therefore like to briefly explain the events in recent months to colleagues in the House and to the ladies and gentlemen in front of the devices at home. ==References== In September of this year, our President, Mr. Italy, including Bolzano, paid a visit, and he was given the current situation on the subject of South Tyrol. ==References== This year the Italian Council of Ministers passed a bill for the long-awaited centralist constitutional reform. As a result, there were enormous protests in South Tyrol. As the first, Landeshauptmann deputy Hans Berger demonstrated massively against this decision. What happened? Why did he react so massively? I quote from the bill in question: "The government plans to launch in the Constitution the end of federalism in Italy, because the draft Constitution introduced a clause on the state's supremacy towards the regions. That means: Responsibilities of the regions are now to be transferred to the State again.” Ladies and gentlemen! ==References== In October 2012, the German Chancellor Faymann, who was then in Italy, was informed of these events. He didn't respond either. It is thanks to South Tyrol Senators and representatives of the Lega Nord that this law was subsequently taken from the agenda and therefore could not already be adopted. Ladies and gentlemen! But Austria has not yet achieved success, but only gained time. We have gained time for a development which has been taking place since March this year. In this context, I should like to quote Mr Zeller, who said in March: “Yes, we are currently experiencing the nail sample, the showdown for our autonomy.” ==References====External links== July 2012 – I quote – states: “This is not how we can accept it. Slowly our autonomy is trampled with feet." ==References== August the Senator of the South Tyrol People's Party Helga Thaler Ausserhofer meant: "It is unacceptable that a government disregards the highest law in its country and repeats completely disregarding the constitutional rights and interests of minorities. Final financial arrangements, such as the Milan Agreement, will not be complied with and our competences will always be eroded.” Ladies and gentlemen, I could quote many other politicians, political leaders from South Tyrol, but also from Italy. If this goes on, ladies and gentlemen, then you will be able to forget the statement of dispute, which has been concluded in 1992 in June at an event here in Parliament, which is so much adjudicated, because then the South Tyrol autonomy has been carried to the grave. It is really time – and I appeal to you very urgently – that you finally realize that if Italy wants to adopt this law, it will need a two-thirds majority to be able to reenact this law. This will not work for 17 parties in the Italian Parliament. In other words, Austria would have to proceed with its defence function and bring an action before the International Court of Justice in The Hague. What that means is that all those, like Dr. Ermacora, who had already warned at the time, and who have made it clear that this package of autonomy is exactly in this point, and we cannot win a way to The Hague here, so to speak, and therefore the status of autonomy in this form would be at risk for the Austrian minority in South Tyrol. I therefore make the following request on behalf of the Liberal Party. [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is really high time to act here. I would ask you, Minister of State and Secretary of State, to carry out this task in this form, in the sense of the Germans and Ladins in South Tyrol.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e15198	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e15268	Next speaker: Mr Grossruck. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e15290	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! At the beginning of my speech, I would like to thank Mr Vice-Chancellor for the clear words he has found in his statement. I think he has clearly set out the target direction that we can only support. And he has also mentioned – and I congratulate it on this – that a new position of the United Nations is coming back to Vienna, in terms of sustainable energy. On this occasion I would like to address the international organisations that are based in Vienna, which, of course, cost something that is co-financed by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, but also by Parliament, which, however, brings Austria a lot. I have looked at this and found that there are over 55 international organizations and bodies here in Vienna, with all their employees, with families, with diplomats paid by the respective countries, starting from OPEC through the United Nations to the anti-corruption agency in Europe and so on. You know that a lot are here. The OSCE, the organization for security and cooperation in Europe, which has its seat in the Court of Justice, is very important – I would like to address it briefly – which is where 56 Member States are represented and where, in particular, the Austrian Parliament is very strongly involved. You know that the OSCE emerged from the CSCE, from the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe, and essentially has three basic objectives. Firstly, the political-military dimension. – The aim is to provide confidence-building measures where there are conflicts, especially in the Caucasus, where we experience and thereby gain knowledge to influence the crisis situation. I would like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President, for the work he has done on this subject. Secondly, the economic dimension. . This is a matter for the Member States to cooperate, to develop further. Thirdly, the issues of human rights. – These are a key objective of the OSCE and, above all, for us, parliamentarians, whether it is media freedom to combat intolerance, racism and xenophobia or the situation of political prisoners, just to mention a few examples. But we parliamentarians are also in demand when it comes to building democratic systems and structures in these countries. And here I come to the point where we may most likely be observed publicly, namely our election observations, in all the participating countries of the OSCE, but also in the associated countries, such as Tunisia. There are some here in the High House who were already during election observations. I can mention that I am on my way with my friend Karl Oellingerdeer on this issue and we have really had many positive experiences and have been able to influence the situation on the positive side by working as a parliamentarian there and there. This should be noted here without us wanting to overestimate ourselves. Ladies and gentlemen, I think it should also mention what the Austrian Parliament is doing in this area. It costs something, but our commitment, as I mean, brings a lot. I thank all those who support us. I would like to thank the President-in-Office for her ongoing support for the OSCE through our participation. But I also thank the staff in the International Parliament's service, which is particularly excellent and professional to us. I would also like to thank the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Mr. Federal Minister, for always supporting the representations and, above all, the expertise and the best information. Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e15354	Now comes Mrs Mag. Schwentner speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e15375	Madam President. Minister! Mr State Secretary! Dear spectators in front of the TV screens at home! Before I can finally praise you, Mr Federal Minister, I would like to say two more things. The first comment is addressed to Mr Hübner. Mr Hübner, you are going to the priority countries of development cooperation, sit at the table with us and with the head of section at breakfast, when it comes to the three-year programme, but you are not able to make your criticism either on the trip or on breakfast. But here you come up and make fun of it, and also in the committees you have no more than polemics for the topics we are discussing there. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Hübner.]] I'd like you to make real criticism and make a real contribution. The second comment concerns the action of NGOs, which have supported many here in the House. But obviously in your ranks, Mr Hübner, there are two Members who have spoken against a reduction in development funds. So it can be found on the homepage of the NGOs. These are the colleagues Gartelgruber and Jannach. Maybe you want to change that. But you should at least correct it if it's not true. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Dr. Hübner.]] In any case, the two are marked with photo and documented with the finding: We are against a reduction in the funds for development cooperation! [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] Perhaps you'll make this clear and tell the NGOs in your federal state nothing else than you're telling here in the high house. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Mr Jannach and Mr Gartelgruber.]] Now a note, Minister, on human rights, more specifically on freedom of religion. – Freedom of religion is a human right and a high quality that we protect Greens and that is important to us. I think, or hope, that's a misunderstanding you mentioned earlier. We are not only committed to religious freedom in Saudi Arabia. There is a hot discussion in the Committee on Foreign Affairs when it comes to the King Abdullah Centre. We don't care if they're Muslims, Christians or Buddhists. Freedom of religion must apply to all, no matter where people are persecuted. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] And now to my praise to you, Minister Dr. Spindelegger. I am very glad that the great reduction has now been averted, that we have at least € 6.6 million at our disposal next year. It also looks like this will find its continuation because, and I am pleased about it, we have made a joint request at the last minute in relation to an increase in EZA funds in the coming years, which we will be happy to support. I will take our support to take a closer look and make sure that it does not just become a few cents, that it will not only be symbolic contributions, and I assume that this will also be done by all NGOs that have been immensely active in recent months and have resisted the reduction. That means the praise is yours because you have responded. Thank you. But there's still a lot to do, and I hope we're going to pull together. It is not only about solidarity, as Mrs Finanzminister said, but also about global responsibility, which we have to bear and which we must exercise in this regard. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] That is why we will be committed to a gradual increase in EZA funds over the next few months, for there to be a stage plan that is understandable that we want to reach this 0.7 percent of gross national product, even if this objective is still in a wider distance – in the sense of development cooperation! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e15455	Mrs Csörgits is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e15478	Madam President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! I have been happy to devote myself to gender budgeting in my current discussion contribution, because I believe this is very important. We have unanimously understood that we want to look at what the budget means, whether they are distributed in a gender way. Therefore, from this point of view, I have considered the budget of foreign policy and I should like to say at the outset that I am very pleased and that it is particularly important that the foreign policy budget is one of the important objectives that women and girls should receive very special support in conflict regions and post-conflict regions. I therefore believe that this is so important because, as we know very well, we are affected by military conflicts, by poverty, by environmental damage, particularly by women and children, and we can not only help quickly, but twice, with this money, because very many projects, which are very targeted at women, then also contribute to improving the whole situation of the people, have a very positive impact on this. I am therefore pleased that a very special focus will be placed on this. It should also be stressed that, in the context of ensuring the interests of Austria within the European Union, but also worldwide, in the context of economic interests, emphasis is also placed on strengthening the rights of women and children and seeking and creating appropriate international instruments. It is equally important to reduce poverty, to strengthen peace and human security and to take into account the issue of equal opportunities for women and men and the particular needs of children. I would particularly like to stress that the EZA's support for projects and programmes for the enforcement of equality between women and men can be increased from currently 41 percent to 75 percent. It is also intended to continue to work on the implementation of women's promotion plans and to offer and conduct training events related to gender mainstreaming. I think ladies and gentlemen, international policy is on the right track, but it is still a lot to do. That is why I would like to conclude by asking you, Mr Federal Minister, and also you, Mr State Secretary, that you should continue to pay special attention to these areas in the future and be a reliable partner in the context of equality policy. – Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e15519	Mr Huber is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e15540	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mr State Secretary! Mr Neubauer, we are Tyroleans, we are not Germans! The South Tyroleans are also Tyroleans, not Germans! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. New builder: You don't know each other!]] Very briefly, Mr Volkspartei-Obmann: Last week I made it clear to you in the Committee what is happening in South Tyrol. Real experts, such as a Dr. Andreas Unterberger, say that this dispute, or this centralist behavior that Rome has just shown, really has explosives in it. Mr. Vice-Chancellor, with your negation of these things, with your failure in this matter, with the sleep of this situation, with the bird-strout policy you are running there, you are really on the wrong path. For, Mr. Vice-Chancellor: No one wants to wake up ghosts who have been sleeping since 1972! They know exactly how this autonomy statute, which entered into force in 1972, had to be fought, how much bloodshed there was in advance. But you're saying today: I do not need to respond, I make a telephone call every six weeks with Mr Durnwalder. Foreign Minister, that's too little! It has now really been confirmed by the Constitutional Court that this autonomy statute of 1972 has been broken. We have the security function. Why Refuse Are you even calling up the South Tyrol Subcommittee? It can be nothing bad if we discuss why we have never filed a complaint with the IGH in the exercise of our defence function, why we do not do anything at all, why a Minister for Foreign Affairs says: I talked to Monti, and Monti says it was a mistake. Only these € 850 million, which Monti deprived of this year's South Tyrol – in violation of the Milan Agreement – will bring South Tyrol to the brink of existence. South Tyrol has now received a loan of € 350 million, otherwise it could not have paid any more officials. And that's not where you're reacting! Foreign Minister! Tax law, social law and the whole self-government concerning the autonomy statute was broken in 1972; you know that. If you don't know what I can imagine, I can show you all the evidence. We have to react now. And I'll tell you one thing: All South Tyrol polytologists predict a massive right wing in South Tyrol. All political scientists warn that bombs will explode again. [[State Secretary Dr. Ostermayer: But!]] And you're sitting here laughing. Mr State Secretary, you are saying “but!” – you, Mr Fachmann State Secretary, have no idea what is happening in Tyrol! Look, this is a newspaper: [[the speaker holds some pages in height]] When the shooters march with “Lot of Rome”, when 6,000 people come, do you laugh? You know what's going on? [[Intrusion of the Abg. New builder.]] I can only tell you one thing: It is already very, very many of South Tyrol's Members who are massively demanding a free state, because they are saying: This Vienna sleeps, this Spindelegger, this Volkspartierobmann is as capable of action as the South Tyrol People's Party. If that is the case, then we have to act. Federal Minister! If you are not prepared to convene this South Tyrol Subcommittee, we will discuss it here at a special meeting as early as next week. [[Interference of Vice-Cancellor Dr. Spindelegger.]] I'll tell you one thing: Obmann Gahr says: I can't call because I don't get permission. [[Abg. Scheibner: Oh, you need permission?- Oh, my God!]] You have to act here, it is really the highest railway! It's clear: There are now massive currents in Catalonia, Basque Country, Scotland, everywhere towards the right. We can't watch that. And for me as a Tyrolean and for you as members of the Federal Government, it should be the main task of helping these Tyroleans to finally fulfil and act on this status as a protection force for which we have long fought. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grandruck.]] Now, very briefly, on development cooperation. Estimated colleague Glaser! I can underline a lot of what you said. But development cooperation cannot mean that we build schools in Asia and go all construction contracts to German companies and Austrian companies are not even invited. We need to talk about this. That's our tax money. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Grandruck.]] We have to ensure that our tax money is used in such a way that Austrian companies, the Austrian economy, too, have some of it. Further, we should bear in mind that we are spending €70 million in ten countries today. That means, every little child understands, we can't work there effectively. We cannot effectively help the people who need it. But we could go here and from these ten regions we could finally focus on two regions so that we can provide development aid that is efficient and that comes to people. That is why I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I believe that this is a reasonable proposal, where everyone will be able to agree. We can also discuss where these regions are, and then we can provide help that finally comes to people who are really driving forward the development there.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e15691	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e15777	Next speaker: Mrs Marek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e15799	Madam President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! An important concern in this budget is to save itself in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and, if possible, not with citizens, in the services that concern citizens. This spatula, ladies and gentlemen, is a good one. It is true that in 2013 administrative costs can be reduced by €5.8 million by the withdrawal of preliminary payments for staff and the withdrawal stop, and that expenditure on rent and travel can also be reduced by €4.8 million. At the same time, we have already invested massively in the web appearance and increased the use of new media and social media as a whole. This also achieved this goal of services for citizens, and the costs could be reduced while increasing the service of citizens. The massive and intense acceptance of these services shows the numbers that really speak for themselves. During the Arab spring alone in Tunisia and Egypt and the events there, 177,000 and 1.4 million accesses to the homepage were recorded in January and throughout the year. So this is really being accepted excellently. I don't know if you know the foreign service app of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for smartphone and iPad. I have this app myself on my iPad; it is really excellent. I can only recommend this app. It is also very, very well used and offers a comprehensive service for Austrians all over the world. I experienced it myself in 2003: There I had a boat accident in Greece and I was trapped there, and I would have liked to have had such a service already, because it provides comprehensive information about hotlines, emergency services and so on. This is precisely what it is all about: comprehensive offers, if you need assistance from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, all over the world, no matter where you are. These offers, ladies and gentlemen, are, of course, only part of the whole. Of course, we need a strong network of representation. The Federal Minister has already mentioned it in his speech. This is and remains indispensable. Here too, there were and there were individual closures, but these are decided according to objective criteria – and I believe that this is always important to emphasize. The decision-making chain is very important. It is objectively assessed according to particular consular, economic or foreign interests, which locations are closed. This also means, ladies and gentlemen, that new opportunities are being taken there and there and that there are also new locations where this makes sense. For example, the new Katar site was created last year – together with the Austrian Chamber of Commerce – or one in Azerbaijan. Possible synergies with different partners are also used. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, something quite Essential: Dialogue with citizens on EU issues is an essential issue. The EU-Townhall meetings are a very important topic for the Federal Minister and the Secretary of State. Three have already taken place. Only 800 citizens participated in these Townhall meetings with well-known representatives of the EU Commission, with which Mr. Federal Minister and others. I congratulate this great initiative, Mr Vice-Chancellor, Secretary of State, and I think we are on a good path here.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e15850	Mr Karlsböck has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e15871	Madam President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! We welcome the fact that the budget this year sets out organisationally the formulation of targets for action. They're just in the place we're about to discuss, a little too general and too superficial. I have also looked at this very carefully. It would have been possible to define the objectives of action in such a way that, as Mr Cap said earlier, the special role of Austria in the foreign policy self-understanding might be a little more developed. I mean, in order to bring this only as an example, especially for Europe, an enhanced alliance policy within Europe. And there I am not your opinion. It would be worth trying to re-establish the initiative that was set up by Mrs Ferrero-Waldner at the time when she wanted to link or bring together the former countries of the Danube monarchy more closely. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: They didn't want to!]] No, that's not right. I have had the experience, also as chairman of the Austrian-Hungarian parliamentary group, that in these countries we are seen as something like a big brother, if not a cousin. There are positive reluctances to us, and at the political level, these countries also have an interest in interconnecting more closely with the question of tradition and common history. That is also important, I believe, especially when one knows that the Lisbon Treaty has more defined the extension of majority decisions. It is precisely that, I believe, it makes a particular sense to get together in this way, in order to have a stronger weight there together with other countries when it comes to important interests for Austria, without constantly changing majority. This is also what I am criticising here, because, for example, the axis – you mentioned the axis Berlin-Paris – which has always been between Vienna and Austria, Germany and above all Holland, it is now necessary to note that after the last elections in France a certain trend is going in this direction. We know why: because Your Federal Chancellor and the President belong to the same party, but I do not consider this way to be done. I believe that what we call reliability is of great importance, especially in foreign policy, and therefore I would ask that we put more emphasis on it here. Next point: Examples of where Austria also has an advantage and where we could also make a contribution to the identity debate are unfortunately too few in the General Human Rights chapter. I have often told you that I would like that to be written down. We have a very good reputation as a former great power – you can call it so calmly – as a Christian country in the world, when it comes to human rights, but even when it comes to the protection of religions. And we know that today 100 million Christians worldwide are persecuted. Since Austria could acquire a reputation, if not even the reputation of these countries, that we are the contact person – not a contact person, but the contact person. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Finally, Mr Huber, I would like to address the following to you from Mr Neubauer: International law depends on the mother tongue, and since in South Tyrol the minority is spoken by German, we are talking about the German minority and not about the Tyrolean minority.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e15944	Next speaker: Mrs Bayr. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e15966	Madam President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I should now like to make the request already mentioned: [[Quoted print version removed]] I believe that this is an important and very good step that we will take on Friday with the decision of this proposal, because it is simply a basis for real change in the trend. There will be a lot of work to be done to see that, in the Federal Finance Framework Act, there are also really the most meaningful and good figures that make it possible for us as Austrians to actually make and do a development policy that is also truly tangible, which is also really capable of providing people with perspectives, the work, education, water supply – whatever is generated – in any case, a small Austrian contribution to a large international concert, so that millions of people have opportunities for a good life. We are now, as is well known, very far away from the target that we should achieve in 2015 – namely, 0.7 percent of gross national income for development cooperation – at 0.27 percent as the last number. We have the red lantern together with Greece and Italy – which are not necessarily countries that can be compared with our economic potential. So I really hope that this is a step towards fulfilling our international international obligations to reach this 0.7 percent. That's a small step. I also believe that we will not make it by 2015, and I therefore believe that we should develop a serious and credible path until when we will be able to really reach this 0.7 percent. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] – So, as I said, there is still decent work ahead of us. That is why I would like to thank you for the fact that in recent weeks and months, very many Members met with NGOs, with senior officials, with volunteers who carried this campaign “me wurch,...?” and were willing to deal with it in terms of content. Very, very many have made a promise, and in that sense I also believe that with this motion for a resolution we have the opinion of the vast majority of this House here. And I thank you now for your support. On the other hand, I would like to make a brief point on the objectives of action which I consider to be a very important and good instrument. For example, one of the objectives of action in the field of development cooperation is to strengthen the coherence of development policy. Yes, that's important! If you look at what the measure is about to do, namely to continue development policy Jour Fixe, then I must say that I am fully in favour of it. I think this is an important and good establishment. I just believe that we will not achieve the coherence of development policy by implementing the development policy Jour Fixe alone – the interplay of all policies, all policies for a holistic, good and effective development policy. I think I can say that no one knows today who will sit here in a year's budget debate because we have elections in the meantime. I believe that we could and should be able to act as Parliament, and should, effective objectives and, above all, the concrete measures that then lead to the definition of what really works and have teeth, and that we should also have the courage to show that we are setting ourselves high targets, which we may not achieve either. But I think that is the idea of this important measure, this important instrument of effectiveness. I invite everyone to work on this instrument and its development. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e16045	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e16103	Next speaker: Mr Wenninger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e16125	Madam President. Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! With all appreciation, recognition and support for your personal efforts, especially in the area of human rights, the opening of new economic markets and, above all, in consular activity – and in the excellent performance of diplomatic staff – I would like to return briefly to the impact targets already raised several times in the budget proposal. I do this as follows: optimised use of websites, Facebook appearance, expansion of information work to the EU. A small comment: If some Council of State, some Council of State, would point out that the funds, for example in the field of the environment, in the field of economic promotion, in rural development, are EU funds, then citizens and citizens would also be more likely to develop a positive attitude towards the European Union. So you should not insist that it is exclusively state resources. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I am not just talking about Lower Austria, but about this experience. Other points are: Council of Europe Conference on the Internet, support for private enterprises in development assistance, economic partnerships, invitations to two development work talks. – All these are projects that are supportive, but I cannot see an active foreign policy from these objectives. I accept the effort, but I am quite right with our clubman Josef Cap, that it would be urgently necessary to show even as a small country quite accentuated foreign policy positions. Why I mention this particularly critical today has the following reason: I am pained that the issue of climate change does not even appear as a word throughout the report and in the objectives of its impact. One of the biggest socio-political challenges of our time and probably the future is not referred to as a keyword or as the focus of foreign policy. We are facing the World Climate Summit in Doha, and I warn against putting this political challenge “only” – under the lead marks – to environmental ministers, NGOs and environmental experts, scientists and scientists. Climate policy must be a central, general policy concern. I am here at the EU Council President: While Europe has several strategic partnerships at all corners of the world, anywhere somehow, but without a common European international strategy, it is not in a way with which we can distinguish ourselves from other powers, such as the USA, Russia and China, in a positive sense. [[President Neugebauer shall take over the chairmanship.]] In this sense, Mr Foreign Minister, we support this budget proposal. I would urge, however, that a contentious, strategic debate be held on how Austrian foreign policy is strategic in the sense of a positive It is a matter for the European Parliament and the Council to be able to draw up a European internal policy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e16188	Next speaker: Mr Heinzl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e16209	Mr President. Gentlemen on the government bank! High house! International cooperation and international commitment are an important focal point of Austrian foreign policy. That is why Austria has always committed itself, in particular, within the framework of the UN and its organisations. This commitment has been and is still very much appreciated internationally. For example, Austria is currently a member of the UN Human Rights Council and the UNESCO Executive Council. High house! In view of the long tradition and the intensity with which Austria is involved, it is painful and unfortunate from my point of view that contributions to international organisations will be reduced in 2013. For example, the budget proposal: In total, compulsory contributions fall by 3.1 million in the 2013 budget and voluntary contributions by € 2 million. The fact that the contribution to UN Women, an organization that is committed to women's rights worldwide, will be cut to one fifth is certainly questionable. UN Women, you know, fights against such barbaric practices worldwide as the circumcision of women and the systematic use of rape as a war weapon. It is an organization that supports women in societies who do not even want to grant them human rights to live their own lives. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The need for a small budget is painfully conscious to all of us, and I am sure that no one has easily liked the decision to what extent it is saved. Nevertheless, I hope that in the 2014 budget, Austria will once again step up its international responsibility, especially in development cooperation. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e16243	Next speaker: Mr Christ. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e16264	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! High house! Looking through the budget, one also discovers a post in South Tyrol, namely about € 375 000, which is intended in particular for various educational and cultural projects. I find this encouraging and welcome, it shows once again our connection with South Tyrol. Tag ‘Connection’: No one will have missed the noise in the leaf forest. Some colleagues have mentioned it before: Based on a “Kurier” interview, the South Tyrol Sunday newspaper “Zett” spoke with the statement about the toothless protective power. This has caused a lot of things. There is a strong exchange of letters between South Tyrol and Austria. The SVP sent a letter to the Federal President, the Federal Chancellor and the Deputy Chancellor and Foreign Minister. In my opinion, they have responded appropriately. There is a letter from the workers’ representatives of South Tyrol, who call it “a relapse in ancient, nationalist times. ” “The fatale is that Monti uses exactly the same words with which the Italian state wanted to prevent 1960 from the South Tyrol problem coming before the UN.” So it's touching a lot and it's touched a lot. The Secretary-General for Foreign Affairs called the Italian Ambassador, spoke to him. What reactions are there to this? SVP-Parteiobmann Theiner says: The interventions made prove that the Austrian Federal Government once again takes its commitment to intervene for South Tyrol seriously. The South-Tirolian Freedom Movement states in a communication: It is important to “have a reliable partner like Austria ” at that time. And what does state captain Durnwalder say? – “Durnwalder satisfied after Austria’s clarification”, “the correct answer to the comments of Prime Minister Mario Monti”. And: ‘Austria has confirmed that it will continue to exercise its internationally established protection function.’ Therefore, I have no understanding of – I call it – “effect-incontinent” reactions and verbal rides that in the meantime already trigger violent reactions from South Tyrol. I am referring to Mr Huber's, who is very careful in his allegations and accusations. I think there will be nothing more going on in Italy during this period – the colleagues from South Tyrol have confirmed this to me. In April 2013 there are new elections, the cards are remixed, and then you will see which government is dealing with like the South Tyrol theme. I mean, Austria has responded well and appropriately, and we will continue to be vigilant.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e16331	There are no further statements of words available on the External Chapter. The discussions on this subject have thus ended. [[17:06:42]] UG 11: Internals
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e16353	We shall now come to the negotiation of Division 11: Internally. Mr Vilimsky came to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e16377	Mr President. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Let me take advantage of the opportunity, at the beginning of this budget chapter, to convey my deep thanks to the representatives of the executives, who are taking care of our security every day, and who are also now, while we are debating the budget chapter security here in warm terms, carrying out their duties outside the house. [[Accompaniment with FPÖ, SPÖ and ÖVP as well as the Abg. Hagen]] You can't say thank you often enough for that. If you try to analyze a budget here, qualify, then I would choose the formula: The better our executive officers are and the worse the criminals are, the better is the budget chapter inside. In this case, I cannot see a positive trend, because on the one hand, I place rapidly rising burdens on the police, increasing frustration with the police, not enough equipment of the police and not properly renovated police inspections. In total, there are huge problems. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] On the other hand, Austria is watching the criminals. I would now like to call on you, Mrs Minister, and the chairmans of the two coalition groups, to solve a small maladministration in the area of executives, apart from the whole party policy and the other hard political conflicts. It is about the service dogs leaders of the police who, in the eyes of the population, I think, have a very high priority. They do very, very valuable work with their dogs, and one could do very good for them if you loose a few euros. There are two abuses in this area, where I believe that it is not a great act, but it is actually a matter of course to eliminate it. First abuse: If today the dog of a dog guide leaves the service after eight to ten years, i.e. becomes a “pension dog”, it is true that there is a relationship between the policeman and his dog who spent a long time with each other, and the dog would have deserved something like a “gnade bread” through the Republic – we are quite agreed. Now, however, this dog guide, who still cares for his dog in the last few years of life, receives 140 € a year, which is not enough for us to cover the veterinary and feed costs. It would be natural to take the Republic into account so that for dogs who have been on duty for eight or ten years, at least the few euros will make it easy for the dogs to be properly cared for by veterinarians and the feed costs will not be charged privately to officials. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] There is a second small abuse in this area: On the one hand, there is a kind of “recruitment stop” in service dogs because the required budget is not available, but other service dogs are almost out of line, on the other hand, the service dog leaders then buy a dog from their own pocket and wait for it to be given to the authority or the Republic as quickly as possible, so that the authority or the Republic will be responsible for the feed and veterinary costs. Ladies and gentlemen, I mean it can't be! – This is a small example of the internal budget chapter, and you, Mrs. Minister and you, as representatives of the coalition groups, could sit at a table together and loosen these few thousand euros and thus do this show unit of the police good. It would help everyone. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, we have said that we also confess to the executive in a very, very difficult environment, which is marked by increasing crime. In this context, I would like to make a motion for a resolution which takes account of the increased burden on executives and which also provides for appropriate incentives in connection with the salary system and the requirements: [[Quoted print version removed]] Mrs Minister, the rewards should not be reduced, but increased again. We should also give ladies and gentlemen of the executives the opportunity to give them an advance of confidence for their actions. It can't be that, if there's a clash between executive officers and criminals somewhere, everyone on the side of the criminals, put behind the criminals, and the police must be afraid and anxious to take action! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This deserves the executive, and my group stands to a hundred percent behind the fact that these people receive an advance of confidence through us, politics and society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e16492	The motion for a resolution is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e16551	Next speaker: Mr Kößl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e16572	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Mr Vilimsky, the appeal at the end Their speech was not necessary because in the last ten years, our ministers of the Interior have first seen the situation of the policeman in all matters and have only subsequently responded in different areas. [[Interim calls at the FPÖ]] [[Call the FPÖ:Disciplinary law!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] But one thing has also been made very clear by your speech: that there are hardly any problems in itself – if only these problems are in the dog sector. I would like to say a very warm thank you to my colleagues outside, who will ensure security for us every day. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, safety and concerns in this area are a central issue for people in our country. This budget is characterised by the responsibility of the Federal Government, especially the Federal Minister for the Interior and the Minister for Finance. With this budget, an additional €35 million is available. This means that for the first time a budget of over €2.5 billion is available. Due to the challenges and the circumstances that come to the executive, it is right that there is this budget increase. I think these funds are sufficient to address the great challenges of the executive in the field of crime, everyday crime, asylum and foreign law, in terms of integration, but also, of course, cyber crime and to ensure efficient and good work. Something that is also mentioned again and again – the Federal Ministers always mention it –: At the end of 2013, the Executive will also provide 1 000 officials in the field of foreign service. With the approximately 400 officials taken over from Telekom and Post, 400 people are also available in the administrative area. This budget ensures that the human situation runs in orderly and proper paths, but also in-depth benefits. Because it has been said that the equipment is not in order, that there are shortcomings there and that nothing is done about the renovation and re-adaptation of services, I would like to state clearly: In the last ten years, hundreds of millions of € have been taken from the interior of the interior area for the renewal and re-establishment of services in order to create appropriate conditions for proper service. I believe that this budget ensures that Austria is one of the safest countries in the world at the end of 2013 and that we can create the framework conditions that the police need.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e16624	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Korun. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e16645	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, The Ministry of the Interior also noted in the Committee on Budgets that the Ministry of the Interior would have much more budget next year. The fact is, however, that several statistical once-effects are included, the service providers’ contributions, which are included in the budget of the interior unit. We have made the effort to look at just a few areas in an exemplary way, what that means in concrete terms. If you calculate these one-off effects, this means, for example, that the integration area will have a budget of €2.7 million in next year, the basic supply area by 1 million less, the border, visa and return systems will also be € 1 million less. - So much to the numbers. What I want to get to the content area, which, as I said, will have less money next year. We are celebrating 50 years of work migration to Austria. Just 50 years ago, the first labour market agreement was signed, then with Spain. Today, 50 years later, we still do not have a comprehensive network of German courses. We still do not have a comprehensive integration program from the first day – 50 years later! Of course, it could be said that the Federal Governments have had about 40 years of time, as something to change – about 40 years, because one can argue that in the first years one expected that the so-called guest workers are going back. But this argument has not been valid for around 40 years. One was very long inactive – and with “man” I mean the federal governments in concrete terms. Today, 50 years later, we stand there with a relatively small budget for this future area. We still do not have the comprehensive dimension. I mentioned earlier, despite the fact that over the last 20 years, the Federal Governments have been constantly talking about integration and saying that integration is very important, that German knowledge is very important. The fact is, we still do not have enough courses to ensure this German knowledge. With regard to asylum, I would like to address a current problem which is not very dependent on the budget, namely the domestic miscarriage in the accommodation of those seeking protection. Mrs. Minister, we have since 2004 the Article 15a agreement between the Federal Government and the federal states, and exactly since 2004, the Federal Government, in which ÖVP has consistently made the Minister for the Interior of the Interior, looks at the federal states, as they do not fulfil this commitment, as they do not fulfil the quotas, as they do not accommodate asylum seekers. We have a situation that we have been saying to this ÖVP and these ÖVP Ministers of the Interior for years that they have had the opportunity to accommodate protection seekers in the federal states. That also says this federal-state agreement, as you know, Mrs Federal Minister. The answer until recently was simply inactivity. They have watched their own national leaders and the heads of state of the coalition partner SPÖ, as they do not fulfil the quotas. They put their hands in the lap and said: What are you supposed to do, the federal states are not fulfilling! Now the Minister of the Interior seems to have understood and understood that she really can and can accommodate protection seekers in the federal states. Just, what happens then? – Suddenly, it comes up with the idea of setting up tent settlements or placing people in so-called containers, in winter! Mrs. Federal Minister, we very much hope that you will not continue to fall into this idea of placing asylum seekers in tents in winter. This is about the number of around 110 people per country, so that the quota can currently be fulfilled. It's more than feasible if you want to! We hope and expect that the federal states and the Federal Government will at last show the political maturity to work together on solving the homemade problem, instead of putting protection seekers like hot potatoes together, pushing responsibility to each other and saying: I'm not gonna fill the other one. I'm not going to do it. This has little to do with the budget, and we are also excited about how you want to meet the commitments with the budget proposal that is available today. Nevertheless, it would be very urgent to finally deal with the housing issue. Please work together with the national leaders, should it be necessary once again, Mrs Federal Minister! And please take the idea to set up tent camps for the accommodation of protection seekers! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e16709	Next speaker: Mr Pendl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e16731	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I believe that in times when not only Europe but worldwide is being saved in individual governments, there is a good budget here, where we are already debating the whole day, a proper budget, and a good budget. This Federal Government has also given a great deal of importance to internal security – already visible because of the figures. You can always discuss: How much more can it be? – No question at all, but I believe that in times when we are trying to consolidate households together, we are talking about an increase anyway! We are talking about an increase, and if you really look at the budget, you can see that it is built up in such a way that the money is also budgeted in a strategic place where the fight against crime is taking place. This is an important signal, I believe, that the Members of the Executive Committee also have the necessary resources to be able to carry out their activities very easily for the safety of our state and our citizens. Mr Vilimsky, I liked it – if I thank you, I always grinned everything; I don't think I'm saying that's quite simply part of it, that's the greatest normality – I liked you thanking the executive. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: That's it every time!]] I believe that the topic of dogs - as far as I have seen it - has already been written down by the Federal Minister. I don't think it's going to fail on little things. But I don't think that you can't express it – really not, you can't do that over a comb! – that neither equipment nor facilities – Mr Kößl has said so anyway – have been invested. There's a lot of money being invested year after year! Again, I don't like to say: It can be more and more, that's no question at all. But, tendingly, funds are always made available here. Mrs Korun, I have to say something about one part of it, I am one of those concerned. I have always tried to judge it objectively and humanly. I come from the region, from the neighboring community of Traiskirchen. You can believe me one thing: The asylum summit – as I always thanked all those who participated – has resulted in the implementation of the outcome that has been drawn up by the end of November. Of course, there is no question that the Minister must also put pressure on him! I do not want to philosophise about containers or tents now; we do not need them, we will solve them differently. But the fact is that we have to divide about 1,000 from the first reception centres just to the federal states. That's so simple! Today we have almost 1 400 in Traiskirchen. What's nice – I would have expected you to do, Mrs. Korun, that you would have addressed it: We have falling numbers – there are still too many, but there are falling numbers, at least in the first place – as far as minors are concerned. Until recently we had increasing numbers there! I'm almost happy about being able to say: We should have managed the turnaround – with all the measures that belong to it, that is no question at all – to get in the right direction. There will need to be a great deal of effort, that is not a question either. But I believe that as I can assess this – and I believe that it will judge all those involved in these summits – the Article 15a agreements will be implemented by the end of the month. Then we have reasonable situations in all institutions. I believe that nothing else is our common goal as human, humane, to be able to offer accommodation for the time. But I can also express a wish for the future. You know, Mrs Colleague, on Sunday's speeches or from me here in Parliament, too, and to say: “There you have to!” is one. [[Calls to the Greens.]] But the second is – even with those who often say “There you have to!” –: When it comes to implementation, when it comes to saying, now we see that everyone, that is, the state-of-the-art, is making a contribution, it will always be difficult! That is what I am saying across all the borders of the political groups, and I call on everyone to exercise the general responsibility so that we do not get to such situations over and over again. I'm just telling you about Traiskirchen: If all of us who have already been approved had left, we would have almost 900 left and would not even discuss Traiskirchen again! That is a general task, and I invite everyone to take part in it so that we can solve this problem quite simply humanely.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e16775	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Westenthaler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e16797	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Mr Pendl! Well, in that case, Mrs Korun is right: Refugees in the tent, this is extremely problematic, refugees in the tent in winter is not going at all! This is therefore a situation that is totally unsatisfactory and should be resolved as it has nothing to do with humanity at all. This is also unworthy of a civilised rule of law in Central Europe and therefore to end as soon as possible. But, Mrs Minister, I would like to deal briefly with your objectives in this budget chapter today, because it is already remarkable. In this budget, it is actually through all the chapters that we have to reach this view: These objectives cannot be the result of a scientific, an experimental or other study – or whatever – but these objectives are largely either guessed, appreciated or cast – one of the three! If you look at the objectives of action in the interior area, Mrs Minister, it is not only scurry at all at all; you could almost laugh if it were not so serious! I've picked out a few examples. For example, the subjective sense of security of the inhabitants as regards crime. First of all, I already have a problem with the “subjective sense of security”, because you have to explain to me what feeling is not actually subjective. Feeling is always subjective, there is no objective feeling. They could only make sure that there is an objective improvement in the situation and that people feel more secure. But a sense of security is always subjective. There is a survey on this subjective sense of security. That's what they asked: “Do you feel safe in the place where you live?” – What do you think? Everyone thinks, well, if I sit in the living room at home and watch in the TV, then I actually feel quite secure. There is currently – you hardly believe it, that is the state of the world – a result of 96 percent. Regarding the question “Are you sure where you live? ” 96 percent say: Yes, we feel safe. But now it's coming. The Ministry of the Interior has defined an effect goal: What is the result of the 2013 Is State? – And here, the objective of action is: The subjective security feeling is said to be over 80 percent in 2013. So 80 percent of people are expected to feel safe in 2013, while today, according to the same study, 96 percent of people feel safe. In other words, 16 percentage points of respondents may feel more insecure in 2013. Mrs. Minister, what's going on? A revolution, a civil war? What is in front of the door that may not feel 96 more, but only 80 percent more secure? – Very strange! Second example: Total crime, measured in cases, in crimes, is estimated at 100 000 people in the country. Current state of affairs – a ten-year average – is well-marked; not this year, but a ten-year average: 7 174 criminal cases per 100 000 inhabitants. Now comes the effect target of the Ministry of the Interior for the year 2013: 7 900. Mrs. Minister, what's ahead of us? – A dramatic increase in crime: 7 900 per 100,000 people! Mrs. Minister, no one understands that. You then said in committee that these are corridors. But then you have to write into the budget: We have no targets, but we have corridors. They have written in: Goals – but these goals are in the interior area behind the Ist-States! That can't be serious, Mrs. Minister. That's how it goes. I could now give you x examples, unfortunately it does not allow time. Or, yes, one thing is interesting: The visible police presence is also interesting. Then you announce the following – it's a little hidden –: Foot strips, visible police presence, will be increased from 973 108 hours of work next year to 1 million. Sounds great: 1 million! Now we have calculated what that means by converting it to working days per official. You know what's going on? – Nine officials across Austria a day more on foot, one official per state as a goal! This is the goal of the Ministry of the Interior. [[Abg. Mayerhofer: Thank you for reckoning! Great!]] Great, not one per day – a huge increase in footpaths against crime! The same in the controls: With the checks you increase by 1.7 officials – and now it comes – for all of Austria! Mrs. Minister, these are goals, you crawl down there. You can't even put them so deep that these goals can't be achieved. Basic provision of asylum seekers, which is also interesting: The current average number of days of supply for basic pensioners is 182. Do you know what the target for next year is? It is not supposed to be more than 190. – Bumm, so maybe more days of supply! At least you do not exclude this: more days for asylum seekers in basic care. Mrs. Minister, that's embarrassing! That's really embarrassing what's happening there. That's embarrassing, that's really not a dedicated budget, that's not a dedicated goal. You're going back behind the Ist-States; that's really something you can't actually be for it. There has been a minister in all these committee days, who admits that these objectives are not ambitious – although they do not come to the House today – namely, Mr Darabos. In that case, really: Respect! – He admitted: Actually, the goals are not very ambitious. But these goals in the interior are not just ambitious – they are embarrassing, backward and a blamage, Mrs. Minister! You've got to be clear. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I hope you get your officials to sit down with them and say: Friends, that's not how it is! If you take ambitious goals, we will also be better able to fight crime, which is massively rising in some areas, especially in Vienna, as regards burglary theft as regards robbery. We are dealing here with a crime that has been unique in recent years when we are thinking of robbery and burglary thefts, Mrs Minister! Maybe one last thought, put the following consideration with me: There are currently over 12,000 employees in 211 private security companies in Austria; there are now 12 706 in 211 private security companies. One should really consider considering and implementing better cooperation between executives and private security companies. No one wants to question the high-level responsibility of the executive on security issues. But you should really think: If budgetary constraints do not make it possible to recruit much more executive officials, get much more planning posts on the street, it might be reasonable to use resources from private security services in some areas – not all areas – that does not fit in any area, but in some areas – and to cooperate better with these 12,700 people in the private security areas. That would be an approach that might be reasonable.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e16844	Now comes Mrs. Federal Minister Mag. Mikl's head of business. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e16866	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Appreciate viewers in front of TV screens! With the 2013 budget, which is being decided in Parliament today, we can best accomplish our security police tasks and challenges and, above all, guarantee our work at the highest level. I also say quite clearly that we are on the go in international terms, as far as our performance is concerned, namely in the EU-wide comparison to place 3 and worldwide in place 6. Mr Westenthaler, I think these placements can be seen and are ultimately best appreciated and best complimented to our policemen! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] The security spokesman of the SPÖ Otto Pendl has already referred to it: Yes, we have more than €35 million available in 2013 than this year. This is a very clear commitment by the entire Federal Government to ensuring that security remains a top priority in the future and that we invest in this area. If we make a comparison, we will have 775 million more next year, compared to 2004 and can say: Yeah, we're fine. But let me get things to the point: Yes, we, the police, prove security police close-up and guarantee this security police close-up. What does that mean, we provide security police close-up services and guarantee that everyone and everyone in Austria can feel sure that everyone can sleep calmly? We know that the challenges are not in any way getting smaller, but that the challenges are increasing over and over again, and that of course new areas of crime are being added. That means, of course, we will continue to focus on the fight against crime. That is, burglary crime, cybercrime, drug crime will continue to be the focus. Of course, the focus will be on prevention, and prevention will become more and more important for us. Fighting organised crime and fighting asylum abuse is still on the agenda, but of course also ensuring rapid, rapid, efficient asylum procedures. These are challenges that we and the Ministry of the Interior have long been facing, with a strategy “INNING.SICHER” and with this strategy we have a very clear answer to every challenge. In recent months, Parliament has also been at the heart of this strategy, namely the largest government reform in the Second Republic – a government reform with the 1st century. ==References====External links== This has enabled us to make nine national police departments out of 31 security authorities, a state police department per country. This has been done with the aim of contributing to fiscal consolidation with this reform, but this has enabled us, above all, to become faster, faster, more efficient, to respect the leadership and to be even closer to the citizen. The sensitive issue of asylum has already been addressed today. Yes, the number of asylum applications increased in 2012, which, of course, is also a very clear responsibility for us to continue working professionally in this area. A central feature of this is the Federal Office for Foreign Affairs and Asylum, which we have set out with the 1. January 2014 to become a reality and to sum up 194 government functions in an office. Again, there is a goal of ensuring rapid procedures so that those who need to be protected and should be protected as quickly as possible and, of course, also prevent asylum abuse because we know very well: Only if we jointly close the back door to asylum abuse can the front door remain open as far as asylum seekers are concerned. Here is also a very clear word on asylum, on asylum seekers and on Traiskirchen: Yes, there have been negotiations with the countries for months. Yes, the asylum summit was extremely constructive, and we have clearly agreed that the countries will be up to 30. In November, they fulfil their obligations and take asylum seekers into the care of the countries, as is laid down in a 15a agreement. However, I also say to you, Mrs Korun, that now is not the time to pour oil into the fire, but it is about dealing with this task in a state-of-the-art, in close alliance with the federal states. And I also say to you that my top priority for asylum seekers is, of course, private quarters, which is why the appeal to the federal states to make every effort to put up private quarters. But out of my responsibility, I say quite clearly, we also need a Plan B if it fails to set up sufficient private quarters, and Plan B means that we help to create transition quarters within the framework of barracks and containers. And if you've listened to me, I've never talked about tents. But you may also have observed the media around us, in which it was quite clear that in Germany, tents in Bavaria have been built to accommodate all asylum seekers in Germany. Yes, there were tents, but, no, with us it was never meant to set up tents; we have always only spoken of barracks and containers. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] One sentence to the conclusion: Believe me, even barracks and containers are not the ideal solution for me, but the alternative would be homelessness. And that's not my plan, because it's about people who have the right to be housed here, too. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Pendl.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The second stage of the budgetary reform with 1. January 2013 will be striking, has a very concrete goal to achieve better control. We have undertaken to focus, in particular, on impact orientation, in order to show the public very clearly what happens to their tax money. I can assume this responsibility for the entire area of security, where it is simply important for me to explain to people transparently, which they receive for a budget of €2.5 billion and a staff of 32 400 employees, executive plus administrative officials, ultimately also in performance. Over the last few months, we have been working intensively on budgetary reform, and I believe we can say that we have been well positioned and are on a very good path with our five top-effect targets, which we have committed ourselves here, and that we have, above all, clearly defined an effective objective, namely to maintain the high level of internal security in the ‘safety’ objective of action. A very clear word to Mr Westenthaler: All these figures, all these data do not come from about, but all this data has been developed by our experts, and I am not supposed to assume here that our civil servants would not have worked properly. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: But there is a crime increase!]] Of course, it is our goal to get better, of course it is our goal to do the best in particular. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You are getting worse right now!]] As regards the ‘safety’ code – you have referred to it –: Yes, this code is important to me, a characteristic that we have defined with objective security and with the subjective sense of security. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: A thousand new police officers were promised!]] And you know very well that in the subjective sense of security, it does not depend solely on police work, but that in the end there are many framework conditions, such as economic development, which naturally affects the subjective sense of security. Of course, we also want to maintain that eight to nine out of ten Austrians feel secure, of course we want to remain in this corridor, but I ask you to consider here, too, very clearly and objectively, that this value of subjective security has only been raised scientificly once. And, ladies and gentlemen, I am telling you, this scientific work is better done by scientists and researchers than by you. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, let me also come to the area of integration. The area of integration lies in the responsibility of State Secretary Sebastian Kurz, who clearly defined the line, namely integration through performance. That is, we simply want everyone, everyone, everyone, with all their talents and abilities, but we don't just want to ask, we want to acknowledge that too. That is why it was also right, important and wise to recognize the qualifications acquired abroad here in Austria as soon as possible; therefore, it was important to allow and strongly support the commitment of the volunteer fire brigade in particular. They know that experts are also involved in this field, that there is an expert council and that 20 fields of action have been defined for integration, nine of which have already been implemented and all other fields of action have been fully implemented. On the priorities. Furthermore, the focus will be on the placement of the German language, on measures to qualify for the labour market and, of course, on integration projects. Such measures – we all know – cost money, of course, so we will continue to spend €10 million on early-language funding, we will continue to invest €7.8 million, i.e. €229 800 more, in the various funding projects, projects such as the Caritas learning cafes or the expansion of the house-to-door projects, in order to give just two examples. This may sound like a lot of money for one person or another, but this money makes itself paid. It is an important and right investment, because for me this is an investment in the future, an investment in a co-operation and, above all, in a peaceful co-existence. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I believe that, on the basis of my previous speakers – Mr Kößl and Mr Pendl in particular – you can see that this is not just about spending money, but that we have very clear goals and very clear effects here – goals that stand for more security for the Republic, for the people of this country, so that people can say at the end of 2013 as well: Yes, I feel sure, yes, I like living in this republic.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e16967	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Gerstl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e16988	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Before I join in what I said at lunch today on the biggest constitutional reform in the field of administrative jurisdiction since 1925 and thus on the model reform in the field of government structure – since 1925, Mr. Cot, the Constitution has existed since 1920. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Since the world exists!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Ah, but not so long!]] I would like to explain this to you, Mr Westenthaler, if you need further help when the Austrian federal constitution was created. But let us take this aside, let us begin with 2014 on the topic of internal, after the major constitutional reform mentioned earlier, on the largest government reform and on the establishment of a Federal Office for Asylum and Foreign Affairs, with which we also abolish 190 authorities, relieve district authorities and magistrates. This is therefore a priority in the area of administrative reform and in the field of government reform, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Before I go further on this point, I would like to ask Mr Korun another question, but unfortunately she is no longer here. [[Abg. May. Korun: Here!]] - Oh, yeah, she's here. Mrs Korun! If I understood you correctly earlier, you said that containers might be bad for refugees. Did I really understand you? – As for students, is it bad in containers? [[Abg. May. Korun: Yes! Just as bad as for students!]] [[Abg. May. Korun: Yes!]] Yes, Mrs Korun, I wanted to lead you to that. In Vienna, thousands of students are housed in containers under a red-green government. [[Ironic Ah- and Oh-Rufe at the ÖVP.]] I looked at that because I was also very skeptical. I've been convinced that this is good, even if I don't think it's a long-term solution to what red-green is all about. But, Mrs. Korun, are you making a difference between children in Vienna and asylum refugees in the containers? Is it good one time and not good the other time? [[Abg. May. Korun: Do you want to hear the answer? The difference is that the children do not live in the containers!]] But the children have to go to school there, Mrs. Korun, and hopefully they will also get a long-term perspective so that they do not always have to go to school there, but that they can then go back to a fixed building. [[Abg. Brosz: That's a difference!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Korun.]] I hope that you have the same objective as I do and that you will set the same standards for all people, Mrs Korun. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mrs Bundesminister, you have said this quite correctly before: An essential principle for the Austrian executive to work perfectly today is that the government structure also works perfectly. And what is better than a lean management than to carry out perfect management structures in this authority as well, slim structures to create efficient structures, to abolish 31 security directors, state police officers and federal police management and to replace them with nine national police departments? Ladies and gentlemen! This has not yet been done in any other place, and this is exemplary, because there are only two levels of responsibility: over the level of the National Police Director and his two alternates on the one hand, and sometimes even in a joint leadership responsibility, and among them at the level of the departments. There is a clear leadership for the police. It recognises hotspots and reacts quickly, quickly and efficiently to them so that today we come to these safety results that you have spoken about, Mrs Federal Minister. A very special thank you for that. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mrs. Minister, you not only remember that the police are doing well with her job, but you also remember that the citizens are getting a point of contact. Therefore, you have also made sure that a civil service agency is now established in all national police departments, where everything can be done after a one-stop shop principle. That is to say, one goes to one place and can ask for all things that fall within the scope and competence of the police management. There you can also get everything answered immediately and no longer have to go from office to office. This shows that you have seen the double effect and that it is important to create only one point of contact for the citizen and to have a slim responsibility towards the police. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: The best action ever!]] With this Federal Office for Asylum and Foreign Affairs, you will also be able to restore a central structure in this country, establish an office, a rapid procedure and a contact point, a monocatic subordinated authority, which may also enter into force at the entry into force of the 2014 Administrative Court. And just as you have pointed out positively before that, unlike what Mrs Korun said about the Greens, it is a matter of ensuring security and also working together with the Federal Government and the Land, you have shown here that good cooperation with the Federal Chancellor's Office, in particular with Mr Ostermayer, has succeeded in making this Federal Office for Asylum and Foreign Affairs work quickly and efficiently, namely with 1. January 2014. I am therefore very grateful that you are not only taking the right measures in the sense of taxpayers, but also in the sense of police officers for effective security, for greater security in this country and for the best police we have ever had.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e17167	Next speaker: Mr Hagen. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e17188	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! – Mrs Federal Minister, it is actually Usus in this House that the Mr or Mrs Federal Minister speaks after the last speaker of the respective political groups, but I can well understand it after I now have the arson of Mr Gerstl. There you go. You probably were afraid he was stealing the show. [[Rejoicing with Federal Minister Mag. Mikl- Leitner.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: The best speaker ever!]] Ladies and gentlemen! In this budget, it is commendable that the internal budget with €34.8 million is a slight plus, with the state police directors even a plus of €45 million. However, I am going back to a one-time effect, because, as Mr Gerstl has mentioned, the police reform has taken place with the merger of police commanders, state police directors and security directors and the costs that are now necessary for this purpose have been covered. The service providers' contributions have already been addressed, and I think that relativizes this plus again quite clearly. The savings at the Federal Criminal Office are to be noted negatively. The crime rate is still very high, and I believe that it would be necessary to continue to make sufficient resources available here, especially for the Cobra. Because security costs money, especially in times that become increasingly unsafe. I think we're saving in the wrong place. We need a well-trained and well-motivated and decent and fairly paid executive. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] We have a staff problem with our police despite additional 100 plantations, which have been promised annually. We can't hide that. Many carnations, protection of mothers, special uses are aggravating this personal distress, ladies and gentlemen. Dissatisfaction is constantly increasing, and the remuneration of the executive is not really very good either. At this point I might want to return to a letter written by a police officer – I assume – at this point. I can read this to you for a moment: “As a police officer, I am already enjoying, in many respects, so-called civil servants’ privileges, which are almost kept silent and are a clear expression of a not really fair tax course: I can pay 20 per cent for all benefits from the civil health insurance. I don't have to break my head, what I'm supposed to do with twelve months' wages. I can pay significantly higher pension contributions so that I can get an official's pension which is lower than a pension I'm entitled to under the ASVG law. I am allowed to serve at any time and endlessly, because I do not have any labour law rules valid for me and pay more than half of my wage in taxes and taxes. I am allowed to enjoy the spare time for Sunday and holiday services in my spare time, and I do not have to give up working time, like private workers. Thirty years ago, I decided to enter the state service without knowing that I am constantly being given a prize for morode state finances. In this way, I may have deserved to pay a ‘depent tax’. But I would warn the government against exaggerating their cynicism. When it comes hard, the executive is the last bastion between her and the chaos.” – This is what Robert Neuwirth from Laakirchen wrote. The reader’s letter was read in the newspaper a few months ago. I would like to come to a subject which has already been discussed today by the Minister for Official Affairs, namely the current account. That's unwarranted what I've got here. This is the letter of the KdEÖ, which went to all officials a few days ago. I would like to mention that the amount of the executive is based on allowances. Now it has been praised that we are getting a real-time account that the officials who are simply heated up by these services that they are inflated will then get a little earlier a little bit of an age-part-time. But there are many hooks in there. I would like to read the following: ‘1. The staff member may for the first time consume his spare time after a five-year saving period. This is done on request for service (to be understood as a reduction in weekly service time) from 1 to 6 months. But this will not create a holiday quota.” – But now it is coming! – ‘The salary shall continue to be paid, but without a warning allowance, an executive fee, any additional charges and a possible all-in-one fee.’ That means they go with the naked salary. That means they can dig in. They can never accept that. So the current account is for the fish’. Then comes point 2: “2. He's got his 50. After five years of life, he will be able to use the hourly consumption not only as a complete but also as a time-free (part-time) according to his application. However, a 50 percent service time obligation will have to be maintained. It is also only in terms of an orderly service on the services. In order to be rejected by the service provider, a mandatory service interest must be opposed in this case." That is, we will have many services because they simply don't have the staff to send people into this exemption. And then it goes on even further. Explain this to me! Here's what it says: ‘Zeitschriften must be paid financially: At the request of the staff member (notice etc.)” – That’s still telling. “Departing from the service or disbandment of the service” – Is that death? Is that what it means? But I have nothing more of that than executive officers. And at the end of the day, “Transfer to another grade group” Ladies and gentlemen, you can forget this contemporary account. And you know exactly, I also talked about the model “50 plus” a year ago on this subject. This “50 plus” model – where is it now? I haven't seen that anywhere. At the office where I am, there are a lot of older officials who are now going to retire slowly. They all had nothing of it. So that was just an announcement that was not feasible. That is why I would now like to put forward a motion for a resolution which really brings about something that pleases the executives. [[Quoted print version removed]] They don't keep it physically until 67. So that's an international custom. And that would, I think, be a fair thing. I always hear we don't have money for the executive or whatever. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dolinschek.]] We have money for the banks. I hear again and again that we have no money, but for Greece, Spain, Ireland and so on, we have money. Why don't we finally take the money for our executive in the sense of more employee satisfaction, more justice and more security? [[Intrusion of the Abg. It's funny.]] Our support, Mrs. Minister, you have in this area. Let's do it together! I would like to conclude with the words of Otto Pendl. That would be the most beautiful thank you, Mrs. Minister, who can prepare you for our executive.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e17279	The motion for a resolution tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e17352	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Worm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e17373	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The best crime fight is a good social policy. Here we have provided with our budget. We have a good social budget. We have good data. We have social peace in this country and we have a sufficient budget with €35 million more for security. Ladies and gentlemen, it has already been said today that the new budgetary law requires the effective objectives to be formulated accordingly. An impact target shall be the following: What about equality policy? What about so-called gender budgeting? In this case, I looked at the field of “inners. ” This particular emphasis is placed on the prevention of violence. That's about €3.5 million in your case. This is an important measure, but it seems to me a little too little ambitious, because with a budget of almost €2.5 billion, other measures would also be necessary. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I asked you, Mrs Minister, in committee: What about women's promotion? 14 percent of the police are now female. You said it was gonna get better now. There are already training courses in which more than 50 percent of participants are female. At the leadership level, it looks even thin. We only have a country police president. This is where we need to catch up. We should also look – this has always been the subject in recent years – as is the case with the carnations. How does it look with the special allocations? How does it look with the carnations of female police? How many men are going to Karenz? What about the funding plans? If you, Mrs. Federal Minister, mention as a goal that you want to control the bans on violence in the family who are being disregarded more – and here is a percentage of 10.5 instead of 11 percent – then I think that is too little ambitious. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the promotion of women, I ask the police to pay more attention to the police inside. Crime is male. Let's get the police female! That means we have even more security in our country.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e17428	Next speaker: Mr Mayerhofer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e17449	Mrs Wurm, from practice, for practice then... – I know the service, in contrast to your colleague Kößl. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] Mr President. Appreciate Mrs Minister! The future needs security. This is an essential food directly. If you have an uncertain feeling, you'll get sick, no matter how. The Ministry of the Interior can expect more resources – we are pleased. This has been announced by the Minister for Finance and also by the Minister for the Interior. We need to talk about the high level of internal security you are talking about, Minister of the Interior. The level is high only in the area of crime, otherwise nowhere, I have to say that once and for all. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I am also very often in the police service and get into what is to be done there. I say now that there is a work attack like never before. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Obernosterer.]] The population also complains of the conditions outside. Everyone already knows anyone – how to say? – Damaged after a robbery, after a cell phone robbery, after a break-in et cetera was. This then leads to headlines like today: Put TV star in front of the bus in the back. - Copper thief went free. That's how it goes on a tour! In the “ÖsterREICH” newspaper: The number of collapses in Lower Austria explodes, East Bands strike as grave robbers. – I believed that it was sometime in history that you cleared the graves. But that's what's happening now. Now, as it were, there's a new era. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and Team Stronach.]] There are thefts in churches and not even metal objects on the cemeteries, on the tombstones are spared. Stirring the robbers, was a headline, offences increased by 75 percent. [[Abg. Kößl: Kupfer!]] – Mr Kößl, I think you really don't do much anymore. You're probably no longer in the field service; it just doesn't interest you anymore. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kößl.]] - All right, then stay inside. Everyone knows that you don't know any more about the practice. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The Minister spoke of maintaining a high level of internal security. The question is: Mrs. Minister, where do you live? Are you being guided by the facts or how? In your inconsistency and in view of the approaching Lower Austrian country elections, the head of state has now reintroduced in cooperation – I have already described this before and I have to do it again or want to do it again – with the Minister of the State, apparently reintroducing border controls. Please, you have closed these border controls shortly after your installation as an interior minister. I just want to remind you of that. The colleague Christian Lausch will come to talk about it. This is once again an example of this show policy, which is all around here. [[Abg. Obernoster: You're right!]] Finally, I would like to point out a point of order, namely the recent investigation in the Kampusch case. This case could not have been resolved in zero commas, one would have looked professionally at the tips of the dog guide. I don't think the dog leader was guilty of the investigation – how to say? – remained unsuccessful, but the debt-bearing officials were much farther up, I want to say that now. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I want to come to the NGOs now in all hurry. The rescue gets 60,000 €. Migrare, center for migrants – promotion purpose: specific women’s advice – also receives 60 000 €. Mrs. Minister, a fact will now take place with the Austrian police and voters, namely: We'll pick the Minister and her party.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e17560	Next speaker: Mr Grossruck. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e17582	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. High house! Let's go away from the belts, urns and graves, and go to the interior! Mrs Minister, in the chapter “External” I spoke about the international bodies in Austria. [[Cheerfulness with the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Just make fun of yourself!]] [[Between call of the Abg. Ing. Westenthaler.]] I would like to make a point here, namely in the international activities of your officials abroad, specifically at FRONTEX. As you know, this is a very special deployment force working specifically in the countries where Schengen borders are being bypassed. A total of 39 officials have a very important role to play. They help to limit towing in these countries. They are experts, experts who can prevent much so that illegal tow bands do not come to Austria. Poor are those who are inside who are towed. Ladies and gentlemen! You know that. I know a case at home in Grieskirchen. It's an Armenian and she told me that she brought in all her savings and that of her family because she had to flee for certain reasons. The tractors put her in a truck, she didn't even know where she was going when she was in Austria. She didn't even know where she was. That's a crime that happened. We have the obligation – and this is what you, Mrs Minister – to help to combat these inhumanities, these gross violations of human rights with these FRONTEX officials. I thank you very much and would ask you not only to keep this up, but even to strengthen it in the future. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e17630	Next speaker: Mrs Windbüchler-Sushill. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e17652	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! As long as civil service is structured as it is structured – in this old, quite traditional form – the Ministry of the Interior and the Minister of the Interior are responsible for making the budget. In the budget negotiations themselves, in the Committee on the Interior and again today, social peace and social security were very important issues in many areas, Mrs Minister, only not in the field of civil service and not in the field of external civil service at all. The civilian service budget will again be reduced by €2 million for 2013. It was not promised, not confirmed, but quite anticipated that any reserves might be dissolved if there is a need. But the foreign civil service itself, i.e. memorial, social and peace services, remains the stepchild of the minister and actually the entire government. We are celebrating 20 years of foreign service this year, and the Minister and Deputy Foreign Minister Spindelegger have jointly invited to a celebration at the Ministry of the Interior. There organizations presented themselves and presented themselves and there they told their stories. These were stories that show above all that Austria is a reliable partner abroad, a reliable partner against forgetting the atrocities of National Socialism in memorials such as Yad Vashem in Jerusalem or at the Anne Frank House in Amsterdam. But Austria is also a reliable partner, for example, on the Frastanz parish, which operates social projects in Latin America, the school projects dealing with children and young people on the street and offering them real daily reality. I believe that you, Mrs Minister, have not only heard the stories, but have also been aware of them. And there's already the question to ask: Why, although you also have contact with the organisations and with the committed people who provide these services, does this budget remain at €720 000? This is, in fact, a historical low for all foreign services provided through civil servants. This is the same amount that was paid out in 2011, the same amount that was originally paid out in 2012. In 2012 there was a completely surprising and short term a ten percent reduction. You cut short in 2012, Mrs. Minister, then all the ministries had to jump in. Suddenly, a total of six Ministries plus the Federal Chancellor's Office have had to cover their cuts in order to secure the genetic services. Each year, the support organisations tremble whether these amounts can really be guaranteed to maintain their reliability and concessions to the partner organisations. The so important services must not become the game ball of the ministries – and not even the ball of the Ministry of the Interior. At last, it needs a self- permanent legal protection of services, best with competence in the Federal Chancellery. It needs adequate funding for all these services and, of course, equal access for women and men. For as long as foreign services are only civil services, women cannot afford these important services, except they finance themselves, and that is what comes out in the final effect. That is why I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Mrs. Minister, you are always saying that you are a great advocate of the current old, traditional civil service system. Your budget clearly speaks different words. – You should finally stop carrying on this double-poverty policy!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e17725	The motion for a resolution tabled is being debated. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e17808	Next speaker: Mr Plessl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e17832	Mr President. Estimated Minister of the Interior! Ladies and gentlemen! In the interior area, the total budget is €2.5 billion. Of these, about 75 percent are personnel costs and about 25 percent are physical costs. Today I am talking about that area of the Interior Budget, where in recent years more and more support and budget resources have been needed. It is that section where the returns of strangers or residence-ending measures are implemented. In the 2013 budget, a total of 10 000 working days are planned in the Federal Ministry for Employment. Ladies and gentlemen! In the past, some Members of this House have repeatedly given incorrect information on this issue, so I would like to make it clear. On the basis of an example, I would like to describe the procedure here. If a stranger comes to Austria, then of course the question arises: Can these strangers stay in Austria? Relationship: Does he have to leave Austria again? First, however, the term ‘foreigner’ must be defined. A stranger is a person who does not own Austrian citizenship. It is then necessary to check in legislation whether certain residence permits are necessary to meet certain parameters so that the stranger can stay in Austria. But I do not want to mention the legal provisions now, I am dealing with a comparison. If we are talking today about the asylum figures that are rising this year, we must already bear in mind that the asylum figures have been much higher than they are today in 2003, 2004 and 2005. [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: Schengen external border!]] In this context, however, I would also like to thank the asylum court, who has dealt with a large backpack and made its decisions in accordance with the rule of law. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] Let's go on again, ladies and gentlemen. When a stranger arrives in Austria, for example, he or she needs a residence permit due to a legal requirement. Then he comes here to his stay, based on the so-called tolerance right, until the authority has decided. The Authority shall decide: Either he gets a residence permit, then he can stay in Austria, or, if not, the stranger has to leave. In this context, when leaving, there are again three distinctions which are very important. The exit can be voluntary on the one hand. This is largely the case, where the Federal Ministry of the Interior is also making a big contribution to support and further progress. The second area covers those cases covered by the Dublin Convention. In doing so, the foreigner, the asylum seekers, will be sent back to that State where his first application was made. The third section concerns the return to the country of origin. But we also need to know that there are certain conditions for these returns to be implemented. First of all, the clarification of personal data must be made, and it must be established whether these are correct, including citizenship. But the State's certificate is also necessary. There have already been problems in the past. In particular, as my colleague, Mr Grossruck, has already said, the European unit Frontex is an important instrument to advance the return. This is a very important area. Austria has been providing great support in this area in recent years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e17893	Next speaker: Mrs Schenk. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e17915	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! 2.5 billion € are available for the interior resort. The largest chunks is in the field of security with around €2 billion. We are pleased to see more money next year, and Mrs. Minister has done this. However, before I go further into the budget, I would like to ask you, Mrs Minister, – Tag Containers, Tents –: What happens to the former premises of the Gendarmerie Central School in Mödling? They've been empty for years, rotting there. They are signs of the BIG, the federal real estate company on it. I happened to be there last weekend and I looked at the buildings. So they would, I think, be much better suited than tents or containers. But now to the budget. In my role as executive speaker, I have also talked a lot to police officers in recent weeks and have some information I would like to share here. I would also like to ask you a few questions, Mrs Minister. On the one hand: Next year, will you give your ministry instructions that service vehicles should only be used in the morning because the fuel is cheaper? – Yes, there is in Salzburg, there is in Styria. [[Abg. Windwood: To servas!]] It's not stupid, it is. And this also brings problems: The police have to go back and forth to see if they're going on, they have to plan it. There are delays, and if we have to dry in the afternoon, there's one on it. I mean, that can't be it, Mrs. Minister! Another point I would like to address concerns, in particular, police officers in the field of foreign affairs. Especially in the cold season, this issue, I believe, is going to be a hot topic, namely the police wool hood. This police hood is available for various special uses, but a general wearing for the uniform of use is still prohibited. Why is this so, Mrs. Minister? In the cold season not to allow the wool cap to use, I don't understand that, I can't understand that! Perhaps your officials sitting in the warm room of the Ministry of the Interior cannot understand it. I can't understand, at any rate, if police have to be on the street Friday night shift and the hats are not allowed to carry. Then there may be illness, and in the future there will also be shortages of personnel. I would strongly advise you to change the police uniform rules and to renew that the wearing of wool hoods is permitted. The next point I would like to address concerns the suspensions, and above all the political suspensions that exist. The suspension, as I believe, is a violation of the presumption of innocence and thus a violation of human rights. Until the judicial conviction, the presumption of innocence is valid, and this should apply to all, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Officials are often handed over to their incompetent superiors, appointed from party policy reasons, by means of the Civil Service Law. This must be changed. There is a great need for change and reform. In my capacity as executive speaker, I will be particularly devoted to this topic and hope to find in you a contact person with solution expertise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e17960	Next speaker: Mr Obernosterer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e17982	Mr President. Minister of the Interior! Ladies and gentlemen! While I have listened to the discussion so far and have heard what bad conditions there are in the executive, and I have heard statements about the crime statistics in Austria, I almost felt that I am not sitting in the Austrian Parliament, because the facts are quite different. Of course you can do black or white, but I think the internal security in Austria can be seen worldwide. If there are such catastrophic conditions, as was said by individual speakers, in the police, then I don't understand something: In the application, when new police students are admitted, there are many, much more applications than one can actually receive candidates. This is not necessarily a sign that the conditions there are so bad. When you talk about crime statistics here and hear that crime is increasing every year, and if you look at the facts – and some figures are not going to be seen, even if you can beautify some statistics there or there – and know that there have been 481,000 crimes in 2003 and 405,000 in 2012, you can see that this is not an increase, but an approximately 18 percent decline. The number of house collapses, I heard earlier, increases from year to year: In 2009 it was almost 16 000; in 2012 it was 11 400. Car thefts: in 2009 more than 7 000; in 2012 3 200. There is an international ranking of 153 states, and one has to see where the other countries in Europe are, where Switzerland – always our model country – stands: ==References== Position, Spain on 28., France on 36., Italy on 45., Germany on 15. ==References====External links== Job. These are values that have not been done here in the house, but which have an international significance. Most countries envy us about our security system. I would like to say quite clearly: Mrs. Minister, you and your team, all the security officers responsible for the whole staff of the Ministry of the Interior and all of us can congratulate us, and we can be happy to live in such a safe state. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e18028	Next speaker: Mr Herbert. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e18051	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs Bundesminister, you have said that the fight against asylum abuse is important to you. From the budget figures for this budget, I believe that in 2013 around €150 million is budgeted for the area of foreign and asylum. This will cover not only the supply and accommodation, but also the enormous administrative burden for procedures, mostly, and this must also be said at this point, by the misuse of asylum applications, but also by the removal of procedures. Many of these abuses, and much of this abuse in the applications, but also in the removal of the proceedings, are caused by private associations and NGOs, which - state-funded - have nothing else to do but maintain their own industry with completely new branches of work. These have nothing else in mind than to operate an asylum network and a tourism network through state-subsidized and supported operations, and the taxpayer must see more or less how his tax money is misused. I should therefore like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I think that if we MEPs are an important concern for the fight against asylum abuse, I can invite you to support this request to use tax resources again in such a way that we not only fight asylum abuse, but also have more financial scope for our security authorities, including the police officers on the street. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e18101	The application submitted is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e18155	Next speaker: Mr Heinzl. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e18176	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In addition to the subject of police and security, asylum and migration is the second largest topic of the Ministry of the Interior, and in this respect, Mr Werner, the law clearly states: Until a decision is taken on the status of an asylum seekers, the state must take care of the asylum seekers – a key element in basic care. In order to avoid ghettoization, it was already noted in 2004 – namely: 2004! – a 15a agreement between the federal government and countries, i.e. a state agreement that states that asylum seekers are to be distributed to all the federal states. Unfortunately. has shown practice that all the countries, I would like to stress very much now, except Lower Austria and Vienna, have received fewer asylum seekers than they should have done under quota rules. The following are known: The first recording center of Traiskirchen is regularly hopelessly overcrowded. This leads to massive tensions at the Traiskirchen camp, both in the camp and with the trailers. In view of this negative situation, a joint summit between the Federal Government and countries took place in October this year. It is positive to note that the quota sinners have promised to finally make their contribution in the future. By the end of November, it will also show whether these commitments will be complied with. We will also eagerly expect how much the signatures of the national leaders, who are responsible for the fact that the quotas have not yet been fulfilled in their countries, because they will also be worth it. It is quite clear, ladies and gentlemen, that the fulfilment of the 15a agreement by all the federal states is not an act of humanity, or even an act of solidarity, but a legal obligation which is in force for almost ten years. It is also clear that accommodation of asylum seekers in tents is a certificate of poverty, whether that is in Bavaria or not. I am sure, however, that in view of the federal's financial commitment to set up tent camps, the foreign countries will be able to meet their quota in the future. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e18234	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Honey. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e18255	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Minister! I would like to draw your attention briefly to a detailed subject, but this is quite a fundamental security problem. It is about the problem of the plane bomb Blindganger in the Austrian soil. Experts say that it is up to 15,000 bombs located in the Austrian soil, and these are mostly located in the relatively densely populated urban area. When such a bomb is detected, it happens by chance during construction work, such as today in Feldkirchenkirchen in Carinthia. If the excavator had not been so mentally present there, he and his colleagues would surely have fallen victim to the following explosion, and in the vicinity of about 300 meters there would have been enormous material damage. But, ladies and gentlemen, in the search and then also indemnification of these bombs, nothing goes on, and why? – Because the costs for the search, for the exploration of the individual property owners must pay, and that is up to €100 000. In addition, it is in this explosion, whether because it is brought about by purpose or because of accident, that it will certainly cause damage to the environment, and that only costs that go beyond €70 000 will have to pay the rest again to the private property owners. This situation is to a great extent unfair, and we know it for years now, we debate it again and again. Corresponding requests from me, which provide for a takeover of the entire costs by the federal government, have been postponed over and over again, with the reference to a corresponding procedure that the city of Salzburg leads against the federal government. In the meantime, however, this procedure has been completed – first – and once again the OGH also requires a clear legal regulation of the situation. Secondly, You yourself, ladies and gentlemen, have argued in your government programme that the problem of a solution must be addressed, but until now you have remained inactive. There is neither a clear legal system nor a corresponding budget to finance this search. I think that's extremely irresponsible. What you're doing here is really bird-strouting policy: Head into the sand, and we hope that nothing big happens. But it is you who have to prevent, so to speak, that something is happening by providing the means for the search and, at the end of the day, indemnification of these bombs. Unfortunately, there is nothing corresponding in this budget. They ignore a truly serious and life-threatening security problem.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e18303	Next speaker: Mr Gahr. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e18325	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) The current hour showed us that civil service in Austria is an important and bearing pillar in the social system. Over 36 years the civil service has developed great: In 2011, 13 510 young boys were assigned; in comparison, in 2000 there were 6 300 – that is, the number doubled. A total of 44 per cent of civil servants are assigned to the rescue sector, 32 per cent of social and disability assistance, 9 per cent to the old care sector, 6 per cent to the hospitals and 9 per cent to the smaller institutions. It is also gratifying – and I believe that the institutions serving civil servants are grateful – that there is a high degree of satisfaction that 97 percent of the missions could be covered appropriately. How does the increasing number affect the budgetary situation? – If you look at the years 2011, 2012 and 2013, you can see that it is between €53 million and €57 million, which are spent on civil service and which from my point of view are also useful. I am grateful to the Federal Minister, who has been accompanying civil service for years, who is making himself extremely stable. A number of measures have been taken to improve efficiency and cost participation have been adapted. It is important today that if you evaluate this system, it is well-worked there, and I would like to thank you for the good work done by Zivdienstverwaltungs GmbH. Overall, this balance sheet justifys the need to develop and promote civil service in the future. It is useful and valuable and an important contribution to our social system in Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e18365	Next speaker: Mr Windholz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e18386	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Minister of the Interior! High house! The representatives of the two government parties want to make us aware, there is this great Austria with a great statistics. We can be proud that we're up in the ranking. But please, the subjective feeling that what the population perceives, we are still miles away from being able to say that it is widely felt that we are a safe country. Mrs. Minister, I'm allowed to start with my home community. I have already told you about this speaker's chair. [[Abg. Rädler: Be proud of your home community!]] – I am proud of all of Austria as a parliamentarian of Austria, but of my home community, of course, in particular. But there are already bad developments, such as when robberys take place across the cemetery. The colleague, Grossruck, who almost smiles here, says: Well, let's get out of the cemetery again!, I invite you to come to me and speak to that widow who was with me and said with tears in my eyes: Ernest, what am I supposed to do, for the second time I was cleared of my husband's grave? [[BZÖ and Abg. Doppler.]] – You should talk to these people once! There are concerned citizens, I have experienced this myself. In my home town there was a civil assembly, where everything was discussed, until the civil defence, which I personally cannot afford to do anything. I strongly support an exchange of information about the executive. I have also been looking for the conversation, a very suitable one, with a very dedicated district captain, with the District Police Commander, with executive officers, but their resources are limited. And this limit is reflected in this budget. If you speak great of plus €35 million, then it is 1.4 percent, so we will pay the extra salaries. And if you're talking about 400 posters – so many aren't – that's, of course, extra costs. The executive is really great, it gives its best, but this best is, at least in the east of Austria, where I can judge this on site, unfortunately too little. A concerned citizen writes to the Minister of the Interior – now I tell you what the citizens feel – on the 8th. ==References====External links== October comes a businessman's Wishiwaschi writing: The next answer will come. ==References== It was so far on November, the answer came. After I looked for the conversation with her, she called me now and said the answer was totally unsatisfactory for her. But it's even better than that of the Federal Chancellor. Whoever shows such circumstances and says: We are concerned citizens, please, the policy should support us!, then receive a letter from the Federal Chancellor's Office, which reads: It can be seen in your letter a skepticism towards people with migration background. – I guarantee myself for this woman, who is superior to every suspicion, she was close to tears that a party that is not so strange to her claims such a thing immediately. There was an apologies, but I can tell you that there was only one headshake at this civil assembly. Now we come to the executive: How does it feel to an executive officer when you know how much the folk soul cooks? – I quote from tomorrow’s issue of the “Kronen Zeitung”: Copper thief went off and back on tour. The Buntmetal thief was arrested for 15 months. The offences were committed in Lower Austria and Burgenland, and copper cables worth €144,000 were stolen. The economic damage is much, much higher. This Dusan K., Slovak citizen, is transferred to his home country, comes to a prison there – and is released after eight days. What's he doing? – He comes back to us and is caught again at the copper theft. I am telling you, Madam Minister of the Interior, that you have to choose a different course, because that is really incomprehensible to every taxpayer. The taxpayers deliver the money and, in my view, have a right to security. But what we're experiencing now is everything else. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] A short while ago, Mr Kößl, who today referred to a term where we can see how much the government parties want all of this to be embarrassing. For example, if something like this happens every day, the colleague Kößl says: That's everyday crime. It's nothing but a delinquency, unharmed. That happens every day, that's everyday crime. - No! There are strict measures to be taken, as we must not go into the agenda. Or colleague Gerstl, who now praises the new, slender leadership structure. Mr Gerstl, you know, just over a year ago I made this request, and I am grateful to the Minister for actually implementing it. That's essential. But when I brought it in at the time, you and your colleagues in the political groups said: That's pure populism, you can't do that! – This is typical for you: If there is a broken request from us, he will immediately be rejected with your majority of governments. Then do it yourself and say we act very responsibly. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Ms. Interior Minister, the next letter from my citizens to you is already on the move, you will be invited to a local conversation. I should like to ask you most urgently, take this opportunity! But please one: Don't tell them about the great security in Austria! Look at reality, and give these people perspectives, with a strong executive, with more staff and with an executive who knows that politics is behind it and does not become flagrant!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e18459	Next speaker: Mr Hornek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e18480	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Estimated Members of Parliament! High house! As a resident of a border region and as a forest-fourthary parliamentarian, a view of border security is of great importance to me. I remember my youth, where it was necessary only to cross the border, to wait for a long trial in the form of a visa to take a youth trip. I also remember exactly as in a terrible film about the border controls of darkness-seeking neighbouring executive officers with their Kalashnikovs. All the more so, I prefer today's situation, where we can easily cross the border and there are no more such incidents. But since the Schengen situation and the removal of border controls, there has been considerable evidence that there are mobile controls, and even the experience of the World Economic Forum says that it is a much more efficient form of control because tractors or other poor-minded people cannot prepare themselves for the situation they have found in the past. This can be seen as a major improvement in this context. Through appropriate measures, particularly in the field of hotspots, considerable success has been achieved in international cooperation, and this is a very important measure. The SOKO East also works very successfully and makes a significant contribution to Fighting crime and illegal migration. New trends and phenomena are regularly analysed, and the priorities of use are adjusted flexibly. In this context, I would also like to point out that it is possible that, in crisis situations, Austrian officials can go to the neighbouring country, but also officials of the neighbouring country can take up their activities with us. In total, it only becomes aware of you when you are abroad for a long time, how safe our home country Austria itself is. We owe this to the very efficient activity of our executive officials, whom I would like to express in this context, thanks and recognition on behalf of the population, and thus we will remain a safe country in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e18523	Next speaker: Mr Lausch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e18544	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Mrs. Federal Minister, you have been a Minister of the Interior since April 2011 and one of your first activities was to lock 30 border police inspections. At the time, in the press – I did – you also justified this: “The Ministry of the Interior stresses that the measure will be implemented socially and with staff representatives and the countries” – and this is very interesting now – “is agreed: No official who does not wish it will be transferred to another district.” And so on and so on. You'll know all of this. “For the budget, the department promises savings of around €1.1 million.” Now they are locked up for one and a half years and you have saved €1.6, 1.7 million for security, for the interior resort. The question now arises: What have you or your department done with the money? It is very interesting that your political leader, the head of the state of Lower Austria, the Erwin Pröll, now discovers it again half a year before the country election in Lower Austria and reactivates the border police inspections you have locked. Now my question is: What kind of cop does he do with? Because there's no stone left on the other side, the police haven't been there for a long time. How does he do that, Mrs. Federal Minister? This is like the modern hat game: Police inspection is taken – no police officers inside. What staff resources do you do with? That's all a big thing. Madam Minister for the Interior, I have to ask you: As the Federal Minister of Economic Affairs, you are obliged to do so. Do you really think this would be useful, economical and economical to lock these inspections for a year and a half and now to reactivate them by the head of state – with the countries you had agreed to? That is in times like this a blow to the face for the afflicted population that has to save. You do it as it just fits, once you block it, then you reactivate it again – that is no limit security, as we imagine it to be, we would do it differently, and that is also not economical, useful and economical. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e18580	Next speaker: Mr. Singer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e18602	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) In the area of integration, I note a new access, namely that integration also has something to do with performance and counter-performance. It is not about the question of skin color, origin or religion. It is about assessing what people want to do for Austria. We must demand performance, allow it and, of course, recognise it. Austria is a country with many opportunities. These people, whether with migration backgrounds or without, should of course also be able to perceive them. Ladies and gentlemen, the success of integration concerns all of us. This is reflected in the fact that integration is a cross-sectional matter and many different areas are related to it. The areas of action of the National Action Plan for Integration are therefore very broad. I should like to focus on two points: the Federal Minister has already mentioned them, namely the placement of the German language and the measures to qualify for the labour market. Overall, the competent State Secretary Sebastian Kurz2013 can provide around €15 million for the promotion of integration projects across Austria. Ladies and gentlemen, this money is well invested, because it is money for projects that ensure peaceful living together, it is money for projects that support language acquisition and entry into the labour market, and it is money for projects that enable people to make their way in Austria. I would like to thank our Secretary of State for his important work. I would also like to include the many people involved in integration, including the Integration Advisory Council and the Independent Expert Council. Since April 2011, Sebastian Kurzim has been a member of the Office, and since that time I have noted a clarification, a positive change in public opinion and an increasing appreciation of the subject. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Gaßner.]] Investing money in the integration area is worth double, namely for the people concerned in and for themselves, but also for the location Austria and the Austrian society. If we have well-trained and well-integrated people, we have an important resource to keep our standard of living in the future. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e18663	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Hammer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e18684	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! This year, we are discussing the budget under very difficult conditions. The art of the whole is that in essential areas, where existential issues and, above all, essential fundamental issues such as security are concerned, the focus is always on. I believe that this budget will implement very concrete and important measures in the security field. Security is – we all know – a high need. Without certainty, there is no prosperity, no well-being, and that is why we should and should do everything we can to give people adequate security. Austria is a very safe country, and this is supported by the security report, by statistics, but also by surveys. However, the subjective sense of security includes, in addition to protection against crimes, general security and, above all, protection against other threats such as fire, storm, nuclear hazards and the like. I believe that in this area, in addition to the good and very good work of the executive, the work of the operational organizations and our strong security system is necessary. And this strong security system is a major part of civil protection, and this, of course, includes civil protection. There is a need, above all, for the federal army, our fire brigades and civil servants, and this is why the need to maintain general military service and civil service is clearly evident. However, I would also like to say a word on civil protection at this point. The Security Budget also provides for funds for civil protection measures because, I believe, it is necessary to establish a comprehensive security system, to prepare people and to raise awareness that they can protect themselves and help themselves in times of crisis and disaster and also contribute to security themselves. [[President Dr. Graf takes over the chairmanship.]] All in all, I think this is a very good security budget. I should like to thank our Minister, the Federal Government, for setting priorities that will support and strengthen the security of the population. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e18730	There is no more word for the sub-division of internal affairs. This is the subject that is being dealt with. [[19:00:36]] UG 14: Military Affairs and Sport
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e18751	We arrive at the negotiation of the UG 14: Military affairs and sports. Mr Fichtenbauer spoke. 6 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e18775	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! May I express my astonishment that you are now being made publicly aware of tenderness, but I believe you are not the true representative of the Federal Minister for Defence. [[The speaker looks towards Federal Minister Mag. Mikl leader with Abg. Windwood Speaks]] [[Rejoicing]] [[Calls – towards the Federal Minister of Government, Mag. Darabos –: He's already there]] If he was there – ah, he's already there! – then it would be wrong and not to reconcile with the male honor, not to say directly to him the “grooms” that I intend to say – “gravities” of course under quotation marks. [[Cheerfulness and applause at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Gaßner: do easier if he's not there!]] It is a question of quoting a much-quoted principle of political action. On another matter, which I do not want to highlight now for reasons of time, the Minister of State for Defence – ‘sport’ – I have made it a matter of caution; it is only later – that there would be the primacy of politics, and I may add that this expression is, in all kindness, constantly misunderstandingd by him. But I do not want to talk about that because the public, but at least the alert opposition, has the opportunity to find out that “primary politics” means in short form the Federal Minister for Defence of the State: The destruction of functioning structures and the establishment of non-functioning structures. I can now provide certain claritys so that the left half of the empire, not half of the empire, the left half of the empire, in order to say so, can be understood. So we have a drop in the budget by 89.3 million from 2012 to 2013 – a minus of 89.3 million without sports. I would doubt that this would be a success factor. Other ministries' budgets are growing. Second point: Of course, all that is currently being debated on national defence is at the heart of the question: Occupational army or maintenance of general military service? Now there are pilot projects that have been advertised by the ministry since the January of this year, and today is a good day, not for the administration of the army, but a good day to observe the realities just this week. Today it was that two units practised in parallel, in Allentsteig: on the one hand, the pilot’s eye, a pioneer’s eye, and on the other hand, the classic military unit, the Lower Austrian Miliz-Jägerbataillon. What's the matter look like? – Only 82 came from 110 persons who were called to the pilot’s office. The company does not even have a company commander and no sub-officer, so there is a lack of the basic organisational structures. The ability of these €5,000 soldiers is to fill and carry sandbags and to carry out simple cleaning work. There is no question of pioneering, they do not control the device, they could not take it, there are no drivers, they cannot set up the pioneer bridge, et cetera. There is also the hunter battalion: fully present, fully motivated, upright staff. It consists at staff level of diplomats, technicians, lawyers et cetera. Framework staff fully available, fully operational at all levels of military capabilities. These are the people to whom the €5,000 can remain stolen, so to speak. For example: A Lieutenant, working professionally in Hong Kong, has arrived at his own expense. He gets a train ticket from Spittal to St. Pölten from the Republic. But that's all he needs and he doesn't want. Of such scrap and grain are the classic soldiers of the militia! In those the Republic has to take an example to draw the hat before them, and they are our models! Unfortunately, the rest have not yet been sentenced to silence, but from 20th century onwards. January is made clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e18843	The next speaker was Mr Prehauser. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e18865	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! In my view, 2 billion for the army is, of course, very close to the minimum in order to be able to work efficiently at all, even if you know that you will have to save 600 million € together. But still, by the proceeds from sales of properties can be achieved one or another, i.e. the holding can be maintained. However, we should remember today that the commitments of the Ministry of Finance will also be extended to give the proceeds to the army in future in the event of the sale of military property. The Federal Minister, I have already said it in a committee, by reducing the number of Eurofighters from 18 to 15 in the Republic over the course of ten years, saving €800 million – minimum –. If this had not happened, we would not be able to see efficient work of the army today. We also know that the proceeds from sales should reach €400 million; I am not talking about the one billion that a former Minister Grasser has told us here, which is not true. Should the 400 million be reached, this figure has a double meaning. When financing the Eurofighters, we chose a variant of – it was the only one that the Eurofighters were also favourable – 18 half-yearly rates for nine years. And now please be careful – I've said it several times, but it's always a bit lost, but if the money is as tight as now, you should think about it – at an interest rate of over 4 percent. The interest rate did not negotiate the Republic, but EADS with the bank, then the postal savings bank, not with the BAWAG, as is always claimed. In times like this, I ask: Which bank can afford an interest rate of 4.2 percent for such a strong partner as the Republic? In reality, it is well below 1 percent. I would suggest pulling the emergency brake, covering the debt and taking up a new loan, at an interest rate that is now common, which is less than 1 percent. We would save at least 55 million per year, and that is more than we could achieve by selling property. I wonder why the Republic is not responding. This is not the responsibility of the Minister of Defence, which is the responsibility of other persons responsible. However, I am very hopeful that it will be better in the future, because other clues in recent times have also been started to investigate. I'm just thinking about the fund funds in Carinthia. This is not the question, however, of where the 1 million has remained. I wonder why millions of people went into a foundation there, not to talk about Rumpold at all. So there's just something going on now, and I'd also ask you to question these interest-rate agreements. Perhaps these are the millions who are serving as bribery money anywhere in the area. That's where the Republic should put a finger on it and investigate it! That's what I wish. Otherwise, Mr Federal Minister, good luck with the resources available for the future of the Federal Army! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e18916	The next speaker was Mr Pilz. 10 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e18953	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you, Mr. Financiers, for the very kind welcome. [[in the direction of the Abg. Krainer]] I deserved it. I'll start with a quote. In tomorrow’s “Oberösterreichische Nachrichten” there is an interview. You can read this in the APA tonight. I quote: “I’m convinced that when buying a catcher, everything didn’t go clean.” This isn't an interview with me, it's not an interview with Greens, it's an interview with Minister of Economic Affairs Reinhold Mitterlehner. And it is no small thing when a member of the current Federal Government of the ÖVP publicly states that it is assumed that this purchase is not clean. [[Call: He may know more]] Apparently, Mitterlehner has not only personally the suspicion that this is about corruption. This suspicion is very easy to justify, because Minister Mitterlehner, like all of us, reads and knows that there are criminal proceedings in this context in Rome, in Vienna and in Munich. And I quote something else now and ask you, Federal Minister Darabos, to really pay attention to this now. The quote is: In fact, however, they were agreed bribery fees to influence decision-makers (officers) in the award of the contract for the supply of combat aircraft to the Republic of Austria or to respect the contract awarded in favour of Eurofighter GmbH in accordance with the agreement and to influence entrepreneurs in the conclusion of counter-contracts. And then for me the key word comes from this document: The lubricating fees were included in the purchase price to be paid by the Republic of Austria, which increased accordingly. I quote this from the house search warrant of the prosecutor's office in Munich. The Munich Procuratorate notes exactly that. They're not guessing anymore. The Munich Public Prosecutor's Office does not say that there is suspicion, but it clearly states that the lubricating fees were included in the purchase price to be paid by the Republic of Austria, which increased accordingly. In this context, I am now putting forward a motion for a resolution, and I am calling on the Members, in particular, of the SPÖ, but also of the other political groups, to take it seriously now, because this is the money of the Republic. The application is as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! Those who know civil law know that private and civil rights claims – and this is the case – are subject to a limitation period from the date on which the injured and the injured are known. That is, from the moment, Mr Federal Minister, to whom you are aware that Gernot Rumpold, together with EADS, has damaged the Republic through the forwarding of lubricating funds in the liberal area, and you know that the injury sufferers are Rumpold and EADS, and you know that the damage is €6.5 million, from the moment your first knowledge begins to run a three-year limitation period. [[Abg. Dr. Fichtenbauer denied.]] Mr Fichtenbauer, we have explained that it is primarily about the FPÖ that you are right. That's why you're already in the first row. But that is the essential point, Minister of State. I don't understand one now. I hope I misunderstand the newspapers and your interviews there. But if I have understood you correctly, you have said that you are not aware of any criminal proceedings. There is criminal proceedings in Rome. The Eurofighter Export Director Romagnoli is in detention in Rome. There is the procedure in Vienna with two waves of house searches. There is recently the procedure in Munich, also with a wave of house searches. There are three criminal proceedings. And we all know recently that the final has probably begun in the fight for the Eurofighters. It is very likely that as early as the spring of next year, due to the activity, not only the criminal justice, but also the Eurofighter Investigation Committee, because the crucial information that led to all these criminal proceedings was the reference to Vector Aerospace in the Eurofighter Investigation Committee, without an investigation committee, Eurofighter and EADS are still in safety today, which is now the crucial point, Mr. Federal Minister. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: We used it together!]] First of all, I expect you to uphold the civil rights of the Republic and order the Financial Procuratorship. And on Friday this motion for a resolution will be put to the vote. Until then, there is the possibility of considering that. Mr Amon, the ÖVP will still be laughing in this context if the Mensdorff-Pouilly charges are filed when the cash withdrawals are examined at Valurex and when it is clarified which persons have been bribed and bought in the sphere of influence of the Austrian People's Party in order to enforce the Eurofighter decision in this Republic under a black and blue Federal Government. You, Mr Amon, will still laugh because the ÖVP, the FPÖ and the BZÖ are the three Eurofighter corruption parties, the three parties responsible for causing billions of damage in this Republic, that we have the largest political crime in the Second Republic. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This is a black and blue orange swamp, characterized by people like Jörg Haider, Karl-Heinz Grasser, but also like some ÖVP members. And the patron saint of organized corruption is still listening to the name Dr. Wolfgang Schüssel. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] And its political responsibility will also have been examined in this context. I take note, Mr Amon, that you are no longer laughing, and you are also doing well in this regard. [[Abg. Amon: I really do laugh with you!]] Yes, you are laughing, because what I know is what the prosecutor's office in Munich, in Vienna and in Rome has already ensured, so all the political leaders of ÖVP, FPÖ and BZÖ are going to laugh. I am only looking for one, Mr Darabos, and I hope that you can give an objective answer. I would ask you to prepare the steps in good time and study everything that has already taken place in the Eurofighter Investigation Committee and in the criminal investigations to prepare for the exit in good time. You know as well as many of us who are sitting in the Committee, Annex A-8 to the purchase contract, the so-called rules of conduct. In these rules of conduct, you are granted the right and, in fact, the duty to settle the contract unilaterally and to carry out the recovery of the purchase, even a single corrupt file, even a single lubrication payment. That is our political objective, we are very close to this goal, and we will achieve it next year. The few Eurofighters, who are still able to fly, are expected to be one to three, will fly back to Bavaria, and we will ensure that the Austrian Bundesbahnen transport the remaining Eurofighter scrap back to Bavaria. We'll get more than a billion euros back for our federal budget. And I call on you, Minister of State, to take the decisive preparatory steps to this end. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e19053	The motion for a resolution tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e19126	Mr Delegate Dr. Pilz, for the statement that “the patron of organized corruption is still listening to the name Dr. Wolfgang Schüssel”, I hereby give you a call for order. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Ikrath. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e19165	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. This one-man show deposit of Peter Pilz, which always runs out after the same scheme, in which he throws accusations with accusations, can do nothing at all, quots something and condones everyone and burdens them with real heavy accusations, is actually not a case that should have place in this house. [[Abg. Dr. Pilz: Mitterlehner!]] [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] But now I return to what is actually to be discussed and what is serious and dramatic enough, namely the budget, the defence budget. Mr Federal Minister, you yourself have said in the committee that you are presenting us with a budget with which you are not 100% satisfied. I would call it a very euphemistic formulation. This budget has lowered the magic limit of 0.65 percent of the gross domestic product, it is only 0.63 percent, it is only more than two percent of the total budget, and it is the weakest dosing of the national defense and the armed forces since 2009. Mr Fichtenbauer has already mentioned that it is 83 million less than last year. Now, given the need to consolidate the state budget, it may be very difficult to move towards the ceiling in the defence of the state. But although your budget is too little and too much to live after the well-known sentiment, and I would say that just too much, you still see it in the background of your constitutional mission, Mr. Federal Minister, as responsible and reasonable to say and write 30 million € per year for pilot projects, for your political fixation, for your political lobby professional army. In view of this budget framework, it is a great deal of money that is painful when it comes to attracting the basic defence service, buying up modern training resources, modernising the equipment – Mr Cap, you were also an instructor, you would have to know – and you would have to miss out on improving the infrastructure. Now, if we look at how these resources are reflected in the result – and I have already said a few words to Mr Brigadier Fichtenbauer – I would like to illustrate this with a quote from yesterday’s ‘Salzburger Nachrichten’: ‘Mility of staff in the professional sector’. “Too few volunteers have so far been involved in Norbert Darabos’ professional trial.” And then I will confine myself to a quote – I would very much recommend you to read this article if you have not done it yet –: “But it turns out that despite intense advertising by the Ministry, which has been running since January,” – since January!, eleven months, Mr. Federal Minister! – “and despite the planned premium of 5000 euros for each professional millionaire, not enough volunteers have so far been reported.” In the end, the “Salzburger Nachrichten” then asked the question: “If the set-up of two companies lasts a year,” – and doesn’t work – “how long will it take for a 9300 man troupe to be set up?” Mr Darabos, I would also like to ask you to take your own section more seriously. There is a service note S 90000/153-EVb/2012 of 5.10.2012, in which not only is urged to provide at last a “information package” after there has long been one for the professional, but it is also included the following alarming statement: The statements regarding the availability of the Profi-Miliz are thus not correct or clearly suggest an too optimistic availability. - Quote. And at the same time – and this concerns me very much as a military officer – I share the view of colleague spruce farmer – for the approximately 23 000 men of the so-called ordered militia – that is the militia that has now shown in allergesty, which is really a military commitment, availability and professionalism. Therefore, it is expected that this part of the militia, or more than 40 percent of the mobility strength of 55,000 men, will only be operational within a few years. - Quote. This development, Mr. Federal Minister, prompts me to conclude that I am glad that we are on 20 June. On 1 January 2013 the people were released on military duty. The result will hopefully keep you from letting our army run into a real disaster.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e19209	The next item is the list of Members. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e19231	High house! The coalition scrap around the federal army is perfect. This also shows the ongoing preparations for the survey. Darabos, in her meagre budget speech, has recently drawn up a strong rupture by Fekter. The ÖVP gives the volunteer professional army a clear rejection and bunks with it. Previously, the political views and arguments were changed in a short time. Now the red fire speeches have to be for a professional army, the blacks are praising the military service, the civil service. Also, the ÖVP suddenly claims that disaster aid in assistance can only be dealt with with with with by recruits. This is a cheap and false argument that we can easily disprove. The recruits and groundmen can only support, but professional soldiers are highly trained in advance for any type of disasters in Austria. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The professionals in the army are immediately available and ready to use. Only professional soldiers, of course, guarantee immediate assistance for any type of disaster. This is and remains one of the core tasks of our federal army. More and more professionals are also required in other areas, such as foreign employment. We have therefore assessed the situation with experts and have come to the conclusion that the abolition of compulsory military service is a security gain for comprehensive national defence. I repeat: The abolition of compulsory military service is a security gain for comprehensive national defence. In principle, we are in favour of the democratic instrument of popular survey, just not in this form as it is now happening. We miss essential, namely the clearly defined goal, which tasks a federal army of the future must handle in Austria, yes, in Europe. We need the Security Doctor to make a serious assessment of the situation. This security doctor has been shoving in the committee for 18 months. The Security Doctrine is important to serve the population as a support for their decision. Citizens need to know what long-term consequences may occur in the respective voting behaviour. Our desire to provide timely information as a serious decision-making aid to all those entitled to vote in Switzerland before the popular survey was rejected by this already failed German government. They refuse the necessary information from red and black to the citizens. The question of popular survey is already absurd. Darabos and the comrades do not know that Austria has a professional army anyway. A total of around 23 000 active cadres are in progress. So why should citizens still vote on the introduction of a professional force? Only this question has been completely wrong-chosen and is a embarrassment of the extra class. This is where ex-minister Androsch is, with his assessment, completely right, and the citizens feel puzzled. The responsible consultants from your department, Mr. Federal Minister, were immediately sent to the desert. The correct question for the 20th century. January next year should be: If you want to improve the quality of the professional army with volunteers, with the abolition of compulsory military service, Are we serious or are we continuing to worsen with the forced service? That's the question. ÖVP and FPÖ would have to make the cross practically twice. This is a popular survey, this popular desire a pure farce. The Federal Army is abused for an inter-electional battle of red and black. The political loser of this popular survey next to the German army is of course already established, and that, you know, is the arrogantly withdrawn Austrian People's Party. It also wants to hold firmly to old structures in the area of comprehensive national defence. The ÖVP has again played out a great opportunity to align the German army with future-oriented Europe. You're hurting Austria!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e19292	Next speaker: Deputy Duster. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e19313	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, it is also a sad fact for me that the national defence budget has been withdrawn over and over the last few years and, unfortunately, in the present budget, it is a little less than 5 per cent – by no means a gratifying development. I am with you, Mr Ikrath, that we are already close to the existence line of how we can maintain our federal army. If you have meant that we urgently need money for new investments in equipment, in equipment for the basic defenses and so on, then I must say that one of the biggest budget items in this budget is the Eurofighter story and that with this money, with these at least € 217 million, we could have done or could have done very reasonable things in this sense, if not. Mr Pilz, I am with you, if you think that in this Eurofighter story we should also examine the private party connection. We, the SPÖ, are in favour. We want this, we have already mentioned this at the last special meetings. We're on it. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Dr. Pilz.]] (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) However, I would also like to say that in the face of all regrets about the budget, our soldiers, who are currently in the service of the Austrian Federal Army, are doing excellent work. And I can only report here, even from the last days, when in Carinthia we had a flood disaster again due to storm: The German army was in service with 63 men and did best work. For this I would also like to thank the Federal Army very much, on behalf of the Carinthias, who were affected. [[It was in favour of SPÖ and ÖVP, as well as of BZÖ representatives.]] In the last few days I have also had the opportunity to compete with the Federal Force Complaint Commission on Foreign Affairs in Bosnia, and to take on site a picture of the service that our 310 soldiers are providing in Bosnia. And I have to say, I have really brought a very positive picture of our soldiers. They are highly recognized and respected in Bosnia for their commitment, but also for their way of dealing with the population and creating peace. Especially in the previous year, when there was also a great snow disaster in Bosnia, they proved themselves very well, both in the food and in the storage of snow-covered persons. There, too, our federal army with the soldiers on site was in operation to work with the – professionally in use – and have done the best work. [[Abg. Riepl: Professional soldiers!]] That is why they enjoy highest recognition in Bosnia-Herzegovina. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I think, in the light of these facts, it is simply important that we stand together and do the best possible for our federal army for the coming year with the budget available. There is certainly no easy task for our Federal Minister. We need to support him. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e19365	Next speaker: Mr Hagen. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e19386	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! This budget is marked by a sharp reduction in national defence expenditure, regardless of whether the Austrians were on 20 June. In January 2013, they decided to maintain the military service or to introduce a professional force. At least € 83 million from the year 2012 speak a clear language. As a result of the first contribution of employees, staff expenditure increases by € 71 million. This means that a total of € 154 million is available in the field – and that is the state in which the German army's equipment is already available today. You all know the example: From three trucks make one. And that's how it goes across the army. This shows again that you, Mr. Federal Minister, do not plan B for the period after the 20th century. January 2013. Finally put the cards on the table! What kind of army do you really want, Minister of State? Should it be a technical emergency relief agency or should it be an EU intervention force or whatever? Make it clear that the Austrians can decide accordingly! We from the Stronach team are for a well-trained, well-equipped professional army with fair pay and sufficient personnel. We will also receive this if we offer a corresponding fair payment. [[Intrusion of the Abg. List.]] We already have a professional force of 23 000 professional soldiers – this has already been addressed today. Finally, Mr. Minister: Yesterday, in my speech on civil service in the current hour, I used an expression that is Vorarlbergian, and I have said that you are letting the federal army “lump down”. I am translating to you what “lumping” means, so that this is clear once and for all. This means “resisting, depraving, ”“ perishing, ” or being“ looting. ” Ladies and gentlemen! This budget is proof of this.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e19435	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Darabos reported. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e19456	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I was afraid: We had little discussion about the budget, but about other things. But I'm going to deal with these things too. Mr Hagen, I heard your speech earlier regarding my colleague, the Minister for the Interior. I have now waited for you to talk; I can now accept this, including your criticism, which I am going to depress from my point of view. But I would like to talk about the budget now. We had an economic development – no one in this room will dispute – in 2012, which was marked by the financial and economic crisis in the euro area. The consequences of this crisis are not over, we will also feel it in 2013, i.e. in the budget that is now to be decided. This means that the public sector's scope for design is relatively limited. We have to adhere to very strict requirements and are limited in our mobility. This, of course, also concerns the area of national defence. And the 2013 budget estimate is a logical continuation and continuation of the 2012 stabilisation package, which we have agreed to jointly in the government – the Minister of Finance is sitting here. I would like to point out this point in the joint decision, Mr Ikrath. This is not an idea from me alone, but we have decided jointly in the government, the entire budget, and thus the budget for the defence of the state. [[Abg. May. Ikrath: 30 million for!]] I can remind you at this point – this is a hard broking – that between 2011 and 2015 there was €600 million less for the State Defense Region than was foreseen in the original budget planning, i.e. a savings potential of € 600 million. And that's not nothing, it's a lot. That's challenging for my place. On the one hand, we are facing this pressure with measures to increase efficiency and efficiency, on the other hand with a focus on which I would like to speak, and also with a target and skill planning, which you have also received in the budget. I can assure you that we will also meet this budget proposal for the area of national defence in 2013 – guidelines that we have set together, which also include partially unpopular measures. And I would like to say that we have given the funds in the field of national defence a clear priority and that we are also trying to consider innovative solutions. As a result, in my place of business, even if some do not like it in the resort, we have to cut off “old pots” – under quotation marks. And I'm on it. For the willingness of the Austrian Federal Army to use this budget, which we have to decide on Friday or which you have to decide: In the international environment, I take the word “stolz” into my mouth. The Austrian Federal Army can be proud of the tasks we carry out abroad. And the achievements are also internationally recognised. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] I come from a visit, a few days ago, at U.S. Minister of Defense Panetta, and he does not respond to call from Austria, but he comes to the conclusion that, in international comparison with 1 400 to 1,500 soldiers, the Austrian Federal Army not only delivers a top performance in Europe, but worldwide. [[Abg. List: But he responds to the call of Darabos!]] And I'm proud of that. I hope that will be seen in this House too. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] This concerns the engagements in the Middle East – no simple engagements, including budgets – in Lebanon – dangerous; right; and on the Golan Heights. [[Abg. List: Dangerous!]] We know that due to this internal development in Syria, there is now a new challenge at the Golan Heights. But Austria has been on this task since 1974. There have been lighter times, now there are difficult times. But as a neutral state, we stand to be embedded in the international peacekeeping community. And so I am proud that we will continue these missions in Lebanon and Syria. I am just as proud of the missions in Bosnia and Kosovo. Nor is it of course, Mr deputies, that we have experienced this. We were there injured last year. But still: We are recognized worldwide, we are visible in this area. And the Austrians also appreciate this commitment in foreign use. That is why I am also pleased that these foreign operations are also included in a security strategy that was decided between government partners ÖVP and SPÖ in the government in the previous year – I ask you to finally reach a decision in Parliament too – that this security strategy determines that we will continue to operate abroad with at least 1 100 soldiers in the future. This benefits us as a whole and is a top size in international comparison. I would like to highlight one more area, which is also shown in the budget: the so-called EU “Battle Groups”. I know there's criticism of it there and there. The EU "Battle Groups" are crisis intervention forces. The term ‘Battle Group’ is somewhat misleading. It is about providing troops in crisis situations. We did this in 2011. We have this now also in 2012, we are stand-by until the end of 2012, with 500 soldiers in a so-called logistics element, leading with Germany. And this is also evidence of the performance of the Austrian federal army. Mr. Liste, we sometimes have to agree, sometimes we are different, but the terms “screw army” or “luggering” or “screw” are simply wrong chosen. [[Abg. List: I didn't say that!]] We have the most modern device. We have the most modern tanks. With the Leopard, with the Ulan, we have the most modern equipment in Europe. We don't need as much as we used to. That's right, because the cold war is over, the tank battle in Marchfeld is passé. I am therefore also in favour of reducing 70 percent of our tank fleet. This is also illustrated in the budget and will continue in the future. Coming to the budget itself: Yes, there is a reduction of €83 million compared to 2012. However, we have defined core tasks. We have adopted measures to increase efficiency. We tighten the organization – very difficult, also painful for the employees. And we regulate the increasing staffing effort. This mix of measures will make the German army sustainable for the tasks of the future and will also promote the military planning process, where we will ensure that domestically military defence through ability and competence conservation, protection and airspace surveillance is ensured, that the ability to the new German word "Cyber Defence", that is, defence of cyber attacks, is also guaranteed in any other area, and that disaster aid – no matter in which system – is guaranteed. [[Call to the FPÖ: This is not “neudeutsche”, but a fool!]] As I have already mentioned, we have a 70 percent reduction volume in the tanks ahead of us. By the way, I would like to say that in this circle, as it concerns the budget, we have reached €19 million. Nevertheless, we have made it possible for us to make investments, for example, by purchasing the multi-purpose vehicles IVECO, allowing the modernisation of the helicopter fleet AB212, buying state-of-the-art logistics and also increasing the logistics team. And we have also set in this budget, and you know that 310 million € for procurement. That is to say, in the continuation of the jointly decided, together with all the parties in this House – apart from the Stronach team, that has not yet been done – the German Federal Hegereforms Commission 2010 will continue to pursue the sale of real estates. Success story Rainerkaserne in Salzburg: sold by €27 million. Great story! In total, the proceeds so far amounted to € 211 million, which directly benefits the Austrian Federal Army. We have jointly decided that these funds will remain in place. And we have planned 100 million euros of investment in our budget for the construction sector. On the other hand, we – and this is also to be said openly – reduce the staffing level by about 1 000 people by 2014. We have innovative solutions with staff transfers to other ministries, staff providers, the Federal Ministry of Finance, the Federal Ministry of Education, Arts and Culture and other projects, for example with the Ministry of the Interior. And we're also going to adjust the central station. In other words, there will be measures to reduce the size of this centre. We move within the framework of the feasible. I believe that this budget is a good budget for the Austrian federal army. Everyone would want more money. In view of the financial and economic crisis, SPÖ and ÖVP, we have decided to present this budget to this House, and I support it. I would now like to express an explicit opinion on some of the points raised in the debate. I am also surprised at the statement made by my colleague, Mr Mitterlehner. This will be assessed in the next few days. What I can only say is that the purchase of the Eurofighters under the black and blue government must be completely reworked. I always used to do this personally. If it There is evidence that the Republic will act. It is possible to draw consequences if these evidences are on the table. I can only act as a Minister of Defence and as a representative of the Federal Government on the basis of facts. But if there is such evidence, the Republic will stand up to shame. There is also no limitation period in this Treaty in our area. We observe the matter very carefully, also very calmly, since we know that we can act on this at any time. There's no time pressure. The Treaty, which I did not negotiate but which the previous Government negotiated, also made it clear that lubricating payments and corruption can be beaten at any time during the 30-year contract, and that it is therefore also possible to get out of this Treaty. So: We're watching this very closely. You will not make it easy for me, Mr Pilz, if you say that the Eurofighters are not operational. - That's just not true. The Eurofighters are always operational in the area for which they have been acquired. But in conclusion: All claims of the Republic shall be respected. I would just like to say briefly to the professional military projects: You can be sure that these projects are running well, that we are on the plan for the pilot projects. By the end of the year, we want to find 90 per cent of the level of filling in this pilot project addressed by you, Mr Ikrath. I'm sure you'll succeed. And if we have over 2 000 applicants for 215 jobs, that is also in the field of the possibility. You will see that the pilot projects will also lead to a professional military component – I could do this for a long time now, but I am not doing it today; we have enough time until 20. Januaryen, to exchange our ideas here – that this professional military project can also be successful by abolishing a military service and with a number of time soldiers, with a lower number of professional soldiers than now and with professional soldiers, can make it possible for the Austrian federal army to deal better with the tasks it is assigned to it by the Austrian population, keyword “Land defense”, keyword “Catastrophic protection and foreign deployment” better than in the current system.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e19562	Mr Abgeord-neter Kößl came to speak as the next speaker. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e19583	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! The budgetary situation, which is certainly not simple, but more than worrying, has already been addressed by the Minister. What we of course very much question, if you already have to accept these savings: that you still install pilot projects that cost €30 million in the year. [[Abg. List: Then you don't agree!]] This is certainly an incomprehensible consideration of you on and on. But I would also like to say a few things that are very positive. The Austrian federal army's foreign commitment is positive. This is, you mentioned it, a success story. Since the beginning of these foreign operations, 90 000 soldiers have traveled abroad and have, of course, also received a corresponding recognition, and that is a real success story in itself. They are important ambassadors of Austria. – So that, I believe, is a very important aspect of the Austrian federal army. Furthermore, I feel very positive that the pioneer units in Austria, especially in Lower Austria, will be realigned, that the barracks will be adapted accordingly in milk and that new equipment will be purchased. What you have said, however, about the pilot projects that have now been launched, I do not think so. If you try to recruit people for these pilot projects since the beginning of the year, and you are only able to achieve about 60 percent of the actual need within ten months, then this is a disaster. I almost want to say that this project has failed. If there is also €5,000 as a premium, the people who would actually come into question are not interested in and for themselves in delivering themselves for such tasks. I believe that in the future, it will be a real guarantee of security in Austria, that it will also be possible to carry out all the security tasks properly, and it will not be possible to do so on and on without the general obligation to do so in my view. For me as a security speaker, it is a very important aspect – and the German army is an important part of our security system – that it must be possible, in very special situations such as a terrorist threat, to secure our strategically important infrastructure objects accordingly. This requires manpower, i.e. not one with 12 000 or 14,000 workers, but one will need 20 000 and more if we consider what security measures such operations require. Federal Minister! I believe that there is certainly a need to discuss in depth the way that is really the better for people in our country.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e19620	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Strutz. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e19641	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister, your party-politically motivated struggle against the Austrian Federal Army and the abolition of the military obligation has reached a point that is no longer acceptable and no longer tolerant, because, as we had to experience in Carinthia, the security and protection of the Austrian population are now at stake. We have had to experience this in the course of the environmental disaster caused by floods and munitions in Carinthia. What happened? – On political pressure, only professional soldiers in the Carinthian area should help. But there were too few forces. Help and assistance came too late, great damage was done. Monday a week ago, after severe devastation in parts of Carinthia's civil protection alarm was triggered. The focus was in the districts of Klagenfurt Land, Volksmarkt and Wolfsberg. Fortunately, since Thursday, 40 pioneer soldiers of the Villacher Rohr-Kaserne have been in use. – Thank you for your commitment! [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Among them are 28 groundmen who were forced in in July. But before that there was intense effort to prevent this politically sensitive use of military officers in the run-up to the popular survey on the abolition of compulsory military service. In a parliamentary question, ÖVP National Council member, Mr. Obernoster, claims that you, Mr. Federal Minister, as a supporter of a professional army, have demanded that only cadre staff and no basic military personnel be used. [[Abg. You're crazy!]] I would ask you to comment on this accusation by your coalition partner ÖVP. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In fact, this was decided in the command of the 7. Jägerbrigade, based in Klagenfurt. From there, Mr. Federal Minister, it is reported that massive political pressure from Vienna was exerted. From there, the order came to send only so-called cadreing mature forces with professional soldiers, although a present pioneer service with sufficiently equipped recruits was available. [[Abg. That's inconceivable!]] [[Federal Minister Mag. Darabos: This is really inconceivable!]] The search for suitable cadres made themselves difficult, so a survey was also launched in other associations, whether cadres with a motor saw training are available there. Valuable time has passed in which great damage has been done. Fortunately, then, from Graz – Lieutenant General Günter Höfler – the order to set the recruits right away in march, since they were not only sufficiently trained, but also much more cost-effective than the professional association, as was found. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP]] For this reason, as the use of the federal army was deliberately delayed for political reasons and thus the help for the citizens came late, we make the following request for freedom of movement:
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e19737	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e19828	Next speaker: Mr Schickhofer. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e19850	I try to meet this polemic with materiality, and simply invite you to move very briefly into the life situation of 18-year-old men who may have just completed their teaching and now have the opportunity to work as a specialist or as a top-trained young man in the economy, to serve the entrepreneurs of the Austrian economy, or who are facing the decision to start a family, or who want to study! I believe that these young people are willing to provide military service, are willing to provide civil service if this is absolutely necessary. I think it's actually about this: that we are thinking about whether it is absolutely necessary to intervene with state pressure in the situation of young people. I think that makes clear the model of Norbert Darabos: that, in order to ensure the performance of tasks in the Austrian federal army, this compulsion is not necessary. Let's take a good look at the three pillars! There are now 11 000 recruits in the military state defense. These 11 000 recruits and their performance, which is very positive in many areas, are replaced by 5,400 time soldiers, young people who get a job that is highly trained, who are excellently trained and provide the service instead of the recruits. In addition, there are 9 300 military soldiers who are trained professionally and are constantly trained. So I think it's clear, even though 18-year-olds are trying to increase the high quality in the federal army with this professional and the time soldiers. In the area – second pillar – disaster protection is such that we have a huge potential even in the fire brigades. I believe that the countries are also in demand here, together with the federal government, to optimize the payment of compensation, so that we can access these hundreds of thousands of fire brigades in the long term. But also for disaster protection, we have 5,400 time soldiers and professional soldiers who have specific training when it comes to natural disasters. In the social service it is, I believe, that we have to allow opportunities on a voluntary basis, that we as a state cannot say we are compulsory and thus come to cost-effective auxiliary workers, but it should be the duty of the state if the intervention organizations, if the social organizations need to regulate this not through the detour of forced to military service, but to create correct working conditions, to support these organizations accordingly or, as in the dog-tore model, to establish a volunteer service, for which, according to the collective contract, 1 400 € gross is also paid for these young people. I think there is now a real opportunity to reform. If we motivate the volunteers to work for the federal army as a service, as a time soldier or in the professional militia, we motivate young people to volunteer for social services as well. But we do not force them to change their life planning, not to be able to train themselves, not to be able to provide themselves as a skilled worker or not to be there for their families. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e19901	Next speaker: Mrs Windbüchler-Sushill. 4 minutes are set. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e19922	Mr President. High house! The first woman in the row now speaks! I would like to say to my previous speaker that I am very pleased about the whole commitment, about this whole force that is still being expressed in your speech at this time. Many of them have been welcoming the Greens for decades, actually always. I would only wish that you could keep this speech at the SPÖ-Niederösterreich party just as powerful, because it is this country party that is extremely divided on this question, you all know. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ing. Höbart.]] In my opinion, the question of the abolition of compulsory military service should be dealt with throughout Austria and not just parts. Try to ensure that the public survey really takes place in this regard! Now to the budget: 2 billion € – this is not nothing, but active peace policy and active security policy are not so presented in this budget. Upgrading and procurement is always the foreign exchange of the Minister, instead of reform and truly sustainable development. The Eurofighter system, ladies and gentlemen, costs € 279 million a year. € 279 million tax money per year! For the testing of drones in Austria – drones! – 2 million € are proposed for 2013. One million € is proposed for vehicle observation and reconnaissance equipment. In order to maintain a so-called new system of military attachés and liaison officers – only to recall that there has been a very critical report from the Court of Auditors – €11 million is estimated. On reserves, according to the requests made by the Ministry of State Defense, € 88 million, said salopp, is spent on general procurement, with – for memory – the unanimous recommendations of the Federal Government Reform Commission, and on this you always, Mr Minister, very clearly stated: ‘There is no conventional military threat to the Austrian territory for the foreseeable future.’... Forces intended to defend the Austrian territory against conventional threats are therefore no longer necessary to the extent necessary in the Austrian Federal Army’s presence structure.” – Thus the unanimous decision. I see neither structural reforms nor fundamental changes in this respect. On the contrary! The old army is no longer necessary. Fighting tanks, artillery, hunting bombs and recruits are no longer needed within the European Union, that is, all of Austria, because peace and peacekeeping mean not military at all, but Europe. As a neutral country, Austria is part of the peace union, not a question, and at any time – and this should be the task of a Ministry of State Defense – in the name of neutrality, could make bridges, force dialogue, Look at the fact that civil-military cooperation works in crisis regions as well. This is also the case in the security strategy, but in a mini article, in three lines we simply mention the civil-military cooperations. They constantly call upon the security strategy. It was not decided here in Parliament that we did not even get the final version. There was no debate, no decision by Parliament, and this is a big mistake, Mr Minister, because if you refer to the Council of Ministers' decision, that is far too little. After all, Parliament and here are the legislation, and you should act accordingly.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e19990	Next speaker: Mrs Schittenhelm. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e20011	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! High house! In his statement, Federal Minister Darabos said earlier that this budget of €1.9 billion is sufficient for the constitutionally provided security policy tasks that the German army has to fulfil. In any event, I cannot see in this budget any security policy development for the coming year, neither in the impact target for the primary defence service – no appeal to training for basic defence workers, zero – nor is only a single budgetary approach, not in the least, intended for a possible transition from the federal army to a professional force. As defined by the department – and I have considered this very carefully – does not even contain the primary task at the constitutional level for the federal army, the military state defense does not find itself in the entire budget, the military state defense in accordance with Article 79 B-VG. Only – of course also important – we have heard about foreign operations, aid and disaster operations and the protection of strategic infrastructure can be found in the formulation of the guide. This is important, but the heart of the military defense does not happen. For me, therefore, the question is quite simple: Are we really still able to guarantee the sovereignty of Austria, or do we perhaps not want to? Then you'll have to say it! ==References====External links== January will come out, one thing we have to clarify before what achievements we expect as political leaders, and what benefits do the citizens of this country expect from the Austrian federal army? [[Abg. Riepl: Are you still a government party or opposition?]] If these are the achievements that the Austrian federal army has done so far, you have to say to the population: ==References== Next year, please: Forced by civil service! Because the fact is that only the general obligation of military service guarantees that within a very short time – this is now the case – a large number of young men, of soldiers for those tasks which the federal constitution assigns to the federal army, are available. But we also know – and this is what the experts confirm – that, with the same requirement profile that we now place on the federal army, a professional army can never do that, and if so, it costs at least twice. This does not come from somewhere, but these are the experts of the federal army who say that loudly in interviews. Because of the budget debates we have held in recent weeks, ladies and gentlemen here in the House, we also know that there will not be these additional resources, a double budget for a professional army. There will be no additional funds, not tomorrow and not the day after, not 2013, not 2014, not 2015. That's a fact. What does that mean? – The changeover to a professional force without additional financial resources and the corresponding legal framework corresponds to a decommissioning of the federal army. Then it's more appropriate to tell people: Let's break up the federal army! At least that would be honest. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! What are the consequences to be expected? – Of course, a further reduction of the federal army, of course. It has already been relatively severely restricted. And what does a further reduction of the federal army mean? – This means, among other things, the closure of barracks in the federal states. In every federal state, I hear from military experts, only one major barracks. What this means for the regional economy I do not want to question at all. [[Intervocations at SPÖ and FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! If the reputation for the professionals is repeated here, especially from the Minister of the Federal Republic of Germany, I would also like to say quite clearly that the current German army has a large number of professionals, who do excellent work and enjoy highest recognition both nationally and internationally – the Federal Minister himself said it. [[Abg. Riepl: Please come to an end, you won't stop it!]] [[Call the SPÖ: Stop! Stop it!]] But also our basic military servants, ladies and gentlemen, with their 18 years, who have completed the teaching of the Matura who have a different training that may be in the middle of training, are very likely to be valuable members of the Austrian federal army if they are used in accordance with their professional image. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Riepl: That's enough!]] Ladies and gentlemen! This budget does not bear the responsibility that a military security budget should carry.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e20129	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Westenthaler. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e20150	Mr President. Minister! Minister! [[Abg. Binder-Maier: Oh, oh, oh!]] After this living piece of coalition harmony back to the subject. Mrs Schittenhelm, if I listen to you and look at the SPÖ like this, I have to say that you are almost unemployed as an oppositionist. [[Rejoicing and condolences with the BZÖ and with representatives of SPÖ and FPÖ.]] That's very interesting, as you argue. – Exciting, interesting! Mr Minister, I really want to talk about sports, not the federal army, because, Minister Darabos, you have my compassion – not my compassion, compassion would be evil, but my compassion – because you now have to empty the soup that the mayor of Vienna has incubated to you. [[Abg. Brosz: That was already Simmering against Kapfenberg!]] But I guarantee you, if you don't mind. In the evening, the result of the popular survey is on the table and you will have to comment on the defeat – perhaps also your resignation – from Vienna, the reaction will come: The Vienna SPÖ and its chairman and mayor of Vienna have always been for stability and security in our country. [[Cheerfulness with BZÖ, ÖVP and FPÖ.]] That is why they fully represent this vote and thank democracy. – That will be the result. You're really sorry about the federal army. That's why I'm going to sports, Minister. [[As a result, the Commission has not yet received any comments from the interested parties.]] It's a little different when it comes to sports. As one of the few ministers, you have admitted – and I will respect you – that even since the objectives of the action were not very ambitious. That is why I am saving myself the discussion about the objectives of action. I would like to make a request, on which I am very pleased to vote on Friday, because it is the first motion for a resolution in this House, which was approved by all the Members of this House by signature and approval before it was introduced. The motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Ing. Peter Westenthaler, colleagues are as follows: The National Council wants to decide: "The Federal Government is invited to forward to the National Council, as soon as possible, a draft law on decision-making to ensure the necessary arrangements for the implementation of the day-to-day course in schools." The BSO President, the clubman, all Members have already signed this, on the basis of a call from the BSO, which meant: Now it is time to make a request. - There he is! I am looking forward to the vote. The day-to-day turn-out will be a reality due to this initiative, and I am therefore already looking forward to this vote on Friday. That will be great, all 183 Members have already agreed. We have not had that so often, ladies and gentlemen. I'm really looking forward to it! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Two sentences for federal sport promotion. Minister, here again: Unfortunately, what you have wanted has not come to light, i.e. an improvement in the sense of independence of sport. I have already told you that in committee. We'll take a very close look at this. Unfortunately, the current draft of the new federal sport promotion is not what we have expected, and I am sure that it is not what you have expected, because, in fact, a new structure is being created here, which is now called the Federal Sports Conference. In other words, the existing bureaucratic structures now come with a new one that costs € 1 million a year – the structure alone, because there is a fund, there is a managing director, positions, posts, infrastructure. This costs € 1 million, which goes off the sport promotion again. And now, take care: In this conference, all decisions will be taken by a majority of two-thirds, strangely. There are few conferences and bodies in this country where this is the case. Do you know how this body, which ultimately decides on the promotion of sports, is occupied? The Minister may send three members from the ministry – that is really to laugh. Eight members are sent; do you know who? – by Mr Wittmann of the Federal Sports Organisation. – Do you know what the two-thirds majority at eleven is? That's exactly eight. Mr Darabos, you have nothing to say at this Federal Sports Conference, you have nothing at all to decide. Everything remains as it is, it is cemented. The BSO, with its eight members, completely autonomously and alone – without any influence from the Ministry – decides on every cent of sports promotion. This is not a sports promotion New, Mr Minister, that's a song, that's a blamage, that's really dilettantism, you give here w.o.- Oh, my God! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] That, Mr Minister, is not what we expected. Harm it! It's really a shame, because I thought you'd trust this, you're brave, you're finally giving this Austrian sports-functional clique a ‘check’ and say: It's not going on like this! – Unfortunately, you too have failed this project. Shame! It would have been better for Austrian sport.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e20260	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e20322	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Lap. 3 minutes speaking time is set. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e20343	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Mr Darabos! High house! Now it is clear to me why Mr Westenthaler has already referred to the budget chapter on military matters: He probably doesn't want to miss the match, and after he didn't go out to Linz, as he always does, he has already spoken. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: We also have sports on the agenda! We also discuss the sport!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Return to the area... [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: If you don't know, just for your information: The sport is on the agenda now!]] – I know it hurts to you that you are always, when football matches are, not at meetings, that’s clear to me. But now we come to the state defense. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: The problem is, you don't know about the agenda! We are already discussing the sport! You have no idea!]] [[Abg. New builder: What about the 37 million who cost the stadium?]] I would now like to discuss something important, namely the defence of the state. In my opinion, the double-driving unfrozenness of the ÖVP collegiates is really to be rejected. Minister Darabos has to work out old loads in his department, to which he devotes himself extremely, sublimely and competently. Ladies and gentlemen from the EIA are acting here and talking about the budget being a very small one. You should take responsibility, Mrs Schittenhelm, Mr Ikrath, for responsibility in a common government means that, if there is a financial crisis, all departments must be saved and the country's defence department also makes its contribution. Take note of this and take responsibility! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr. Ikrath, in the Budget Committee, you said that the pilot projects cost €90 million. Today in plenary, you have talked about costing €30 million. The actual cost is € 10 million. Mr Ikrath, I think you are working professionally at a savings bank. So I don't want my account with you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The National Defence Region shall contribute to the consolidation of the budget. The reserves are planned and used in a targeted and forward-looking manner, as well as the entire budget. There is a re-determination of resources. Mrs Schittenhelm, just a little after-help: The objective of Noumero one is to ensure an adequate response to changing security conditions while ensuring state sovereignty. This is the task and the objective of effect number one. You should have prepared yourself better.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e20464	Next speaker: Mr Markowitz. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e20485	Mr President. Dear Federal Government! High house! Mrs Lap, I am already talking about sports, even if you, I believe, only want to talk about the military, but we have the Minister for Defence and Sport here! I'm saying this right now and it's clear that we can also talk about sports here. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Not only allowed, but should!]] The Minister has already been punished enough for not to be in the stadium today, because you have set up the budget allocation so that the Minister of Sports has to be here today, but that doesn't matter. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Lap.]] How great the climate between red and black is, we have seen enough today. One party insults the other and vice versa. Pull the consequences and call new elections! I think we'll all save ourselves a lot in the future. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] One thing I have to address, as we are talking about sports today, and that is very encouraging: Mr Minister, I congratulate you on € 144 million of the budget you have available, which is really great. In the Committee you have said that you do not feel responsible for the hours, that is not Your place of business. We will also support the request which Mr Westenthaler will make, because I have no problem at all, because we find that the gymnastics in schools are extended. These have been drastically reduced in recent years. With this proposal we can live absolutely and will also agree with it. [[Call to the ÖVP: They forgot the Stronach!]] Please? [[Call at the ÖVP: The Stronach has missed!]] What's the name of the colleague in the back? I've never seen you down there. I don't know if you've ever found the way to the speaker's desk, and if you've found it, you've got to talk from the bottom, and then we're going to communicate with each other, I have no problem at all, Mr. Colleague. [[Oh, call at ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Steibl: That's arrogant thing!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] – I really think it’s great that you’re awake for an hour later. I really have to say that. A topic, Mr Minister, which we need to discuss, is the public work in your 2013 department. That's where you've planned €600 000 for ads. I wonder what you're actually doing with it. I'm sure you can disarm this now. In the Committee you have not been able to say clearly and clearly what will happen to the €600 000. A parade example of you is really the Werner Schlager Academy in Schwechat. She'll get another 700 000 €. This contribution, if I remember correctly, has been adapted and increased in recent years. I know you're on table tennis, that's very important, but where will that end? Werner Schlager did great things for Austria, he was a victorious Olympician, but here it really goes around 700 000 € more in addition to what he already gets. So here I wonder, Minister: Is that really necessary? Something that's welcome. For the World Cup in Schladming, €24 million is estimated. This is a major advertising factor for Austria, which is absolutely right. After we had such a disaster at the Olympic Games, Minister, I would like to address the sport of disabled people. In the Paralympics these athletes did great things for Austria. Disabled sport is absolutely below its value. I think that we need to adapt sports promotion as it was in 2003 and 2004, namely that the lotteries have a certain amount to pay as a liability for the sport of disabled persons. I mean, we have to go ahead with a good example here, because this is people who are very disadvantaged, and if they find their job and their values in sports and then perform so great achievements, this should be rewarded accordingly. That is why I would really ask you to think about all the federal sport promotion at all and really abolish this casting pot principle. That is why we make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] It is about a base amount that is intended for people who are not so good and who really make their private money available to finance the trainers. Mr Minister, you know what I'm talking about. So here you have an absolute partner in us. We have to do more for disabled people in this country, we have to go ahead with good example, and then I am convinced that it is going well in this direction, because money is available – let's put it right! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e20606	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e20664	Next speaker: Mr Haubner. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e20685	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Mr. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr Markowitz, a little more respect for your colleagues would be good for you, but I have almost given up this hope. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Austrian sport has available € 144 million this year, which is an absolute record value, and I think that is a very important signal and recognition for Austrian sport. The foundation stone was already laid in 2000, when we opened the upper lid of sports promotion. When you look at the numbers: At that time there were 33.4 million more, today, twelve years later, we hold at € 144 million. And this money, ladies and gentlemen, is very well invested in Austrian sport. We know that 1 € in the sport saves 3 € in the health system, and we know exactly that in times like this, where our youth has to struggle with problems of obesity, the immobility, we still have a lot of work in front of us here, but also already do a lot of work. The sport, the organized sport has taken over many tasks in Austria, starting from the child movement through health care, through prevention, through the cooperation from school and association to integrative projects, to senior sports, and of course not to forget as a very central pillar: the top sport. Ladies and gentlemen! We have an excellent system in Austria, namely the system of the global association network, and we do not need to hide the international comparison. Here we clearly see that this Austrian system with 14 000 associations throughout Austria, with 3.5 million sports-driven people, is an irreplaceable network for sports and thus for health in Austria. And where do you find such a network that works largely unpaid and volunteerly? That's why I'm saying: The honorary office in sport is indispensable, and I would like to thank the thousands of officials who volunteer in their associations and associations quite cordially for doing this, because they are the backbone of Austrian sport and sports clubs and thus a very essential contribution to the well-being of our youth and to health in our country. Ladies and gentlemen, I think the new Federal Sports Promotion Act is also the right approach, because it is about that we in Austria – we have always stressed this – do not want to have state sports, but we want to have an independent, autonomous sport, and this is what this new Federal Sports Promotion Act is doing. This means that we are on the right path, that we continue these € 144 million, which Austrian sport has available, to the clubs and bring to the athletes – for the benefit of Austria and thus for the benefit of our youth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e20737	Next speaker: Mr Podgorschek. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e20758	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Mrs. Federal Minister! In one case, Mr. Minister, I'm right: A conventional war will not be very likely, but nevertheless the federal army has a great need for rehabilitation which you and your predecessors have unfortunately not addressed. It was necessary to attract the military service and establish a meaningful military system with exercises and reduction of system holders. But the federal army must be able to respond to disasters and crises of any kind, and that is impossible. For 1 000 objects to be protected: How do you want to do this with a professional force if you have a budget of €2 billion, which is 0.63 percent of GDP? I should therefore like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Mr. Federal Minister, when you introduce a professional force, the last thing is that the army has to be embedded in the European Union. That is, at the end of NATO, that is, the task of neutrality, which means that our constitution is being broken. So I hope you'll get on 20th. January the necessary answer.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e20800	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e20859	Next speaker: Mrs Lueger. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e20880	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I find it exciting to see a member of our government partner in person of the colleague Schittenhelm here and to criticise a minister who gets less money from the Minister of Finance, who is not really provided by our group, to a minister who adheres to the requirements of budget consolidation and who has designed his own budget in such a way as to ensure that the tasks of his department are fulfilled. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Then get out of the coalition and finally make elections!]] Minister Darabos has also given himself three major priorities: The use of resources and resources must be given; the optimization in current operations, which the Minister himself has said, is also a reduction in personnel, and one must simply change it; and, above all, an important point – and this should somehow have gone down with Mrs Schittenhelm – the limitation of the federal army to the actual core tasks. We have already heard that we are fulfilling tasks both domestically and abroad. And especially abroad – also for Mrs. Schittenhelm in addition: I can't remember that we've ever sent primary military servants abroad – we are recognized for crisis and conflict management with well-trained people, who are not only Europe-wide, but internationally so much recognized that Austria is constantly being taken back. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] [[call to the FPÖ.]] We also carried out evacuations of Austrian citizens in crisis areas, which we were all proud of, and there were not only Austrians there. There we have specialists, and they belong quite simply well trained and also well equipped with good materials. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] So we have domestic cooperation, but we also have cooperations internationally and abroad. Nevertheless, the Minister has still managed to define structural and infrastructure priorities in his budget. One thing I would like to say: He has managed to invest €65 million in infrastructure in recent years, and in 2013 he has also provided for investments for 100 million, which really means improving the accommodation situation – i.e. improving for the soldiers directly on site, in the troop – and improving the equipment and thus protecting the soldiers. These are also very simple things in his procurement, which he has done and which are a priority. Mrs Souschill, I think that drones are not needed for domestic purposes; the drones are for foreign purposes. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brosz.]] Mrs Schittenhelm, concluded: We already have a professional army, a well-functioning professional army equipped with specialists, so – if I hear your opinion – I am really appalled at how our coalition partner reacts in this regard.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e20945	Next speaker: Mr Brosz. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e20966	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mrs Finanzminister! This was once again a good example of the need for a redesign of the budget debate. Mrs Lapp has already been right: It does not make sense to jump from the military to sport – from one speaker to the other – but there is nothing else left because the debate is designed in such a way that it takes place in one. Maybe we can think about it, that you get it more sensible once. But let us now talk a bit about sport and continue where previous speakers have stopped, namely on the question of this ominous new federal sports promotion law. [[Interoperability call at the SPÖ]] I have, in part, criticized you for the way you have acted in London, because during the Olympic Games, the Minister of Sports – quite exactly half the same – exclaimed the great crisis of Austrian sport, and many of them were not particularly open. Regardless of a legitimate criticism – the time was definitely indisputable. If I understood your criticism correctly, she said: A problem is the current structure of sports promotion, a problem is that in top sports the funds do not get enough where they should actually land. And that is why you have put an end to what you have been moving from one date to the next in the Sports Committee for two years, I do not know how long, namely the submission of a federal sports promotion law. If one now looks into this law, which will come into plenary sometime or at first the committees, then one can measure it by what your demand was: to promote certain sports more strongly. I think that makes sense, because: What happened in Austria? In what sports has there been a boom in the last – let us say – two decades? – Where there were successes. I just remember Thomas pattern who won in Paris in 1995. The result was that many children wanted to start tennis playing, started and failed in the Austrian tennis structure. You just need to take a look at the current world rankings: If you take away from Mr Jürgen Melzer, you can see that the promotion of young people in top-level sports has gone wrong; this does not look much better for the ladies either. It is therefore already legitimate to ask whether sports promotion also takes account of such events. Now I am no longer talking about events such as the double Olympic victory in Judo by Peter Siisenbacher. Judo takes place in Austria de facto also less and less in the top sports. There have also been other problems, but at least from the structure that there would be a width, one cannot assume. There has been an association in which it at least appeared from the results that something really goes on, that was the swimming association. As the swimming pool has now ended, everyone has come along. What happened there? – Political decisions seem to have won the upper hand again. Now one looks at this sports promotion law and says: Okay, you said you wanted to be able to promote more targeted. – I can only support the comments made by Mr Westenthal. I do not want to say that there should be a part for broadband, which can go quietly into the roof associations; I do not really have anything against it. The point now is to say: A significant part is divided into basic promotion, broadband promotion; another part also comes into top-level sports promotion. It was legitimately addressed: How is this support granted and managed? – From a body in which the ministry has a blocking minority against itself or everything can be decided against the representatives of the ministry. We now have a situation in which a great deal of money has been lost, but in which certain budget resources would have actually been allocated to the ministry. In other words, you have now had the opportunity not to do any project with the umbrella associations and the professional associations, but also to take out certain pilot projects. What you do with this law – and so I understand the law – is to give up and say that, in the end, we put everything in a pot, with the federal sports organization – you have to explain that to me. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] If that is not the case, Mr Wittmann, then explain this point to me: “The Federal Sports Conference” – this is organized sport, since we agree who it is – “is decided if all members () were invited two weeks before the meeting and at least half ( ) is present.” Then it says: “Decisions are taken by two thirds of the votes cast.” – Yes, why? [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Why two thirds?]] Can you give me a reason? We constantly have the debate on blockade situations, we have always the question of where to make two-thirds of the majority. – Now go here and make a two-thirds majority in a new sports promotion structure, which means: The ministry can put itself on the head. All that can be decided is ultimately de facto beyond the ability of the Minister of Sports to act. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: That means outside Parliamentary control!]] Why should we agree to this law? What improves it? What changes does it make? And with that I come back to something that Mr Markowitz, from my point of view, has completely misguided: a pilot project such as the Werner Schlager Academy. Let's take a look at this! It's going to be time for us to talk Tacheles about this. We have the situation that a multi-purpose hall has been built in Schwechat – one should look at it – which is partly used for sports – to a probably smaller part; one should look at the annual burden – for about 3,000 people. There are fairs taking place, there are concerts, there are balls taking place, everything possible. Part of this area is the Werner Schlager Academy, in which de facto there is no crowd. A European Table Tennis Centre was set up, supported by the International Table Tennis Association, supported by the European Table Tennis Association, which has been financed by international funds to an insignificant extent, because it has been recognised as a pilot project. What happened? – A very dubious procedure, which we also discussed in the Sports Committee. Who is actually the promoter of this project? – The Ministry of Sports budget says inside: Werner Schlager Academy. And who gets the money? – The Multiversum, a multi-purpose hall. You have defined in your new sports promotion budget what is a sports venue; I have read it with special interest. A sports centre is a “installation that serves exclusively or predominantly the conscious physical activity () in the sporting competition. ” - Anyone who knows the multiversum will find: The multiversum is therefore not defined as a sports ground, because there is something else at the heart of it. Mr Minister, you are not promoting an Austrian pilot project so that the Werner Schlager Academy gets the money, but that the construction costs of a multi-purpose hall have been financed, which is now – excused, Mr. Col. – powerful like the Kaisersemmel – you only need to read it in newspapers – with the question of whether it can still be operated on in the first place, whether it is somehow going out, and draw one of the pilot projects of Austrian sport into it. I'll tell you: We don't look at that any longer, if that's the way it goes! You can now put the €700 000 back into the multiversum. If it comes out that the multiversum by the way: I now also know the contracts. The construction contract states that the Multiversum has to ensure the operation of the Werner Schlager Academy for 30 years. Look at how the contracts have now been changed and what is in it at once, namely, in the departure from the Multiversum to Werner Schlager Academy! At once, this basic condition is no longer contained in the promotion contracts. There it will play pretty rambazamba in the near future. So far, I have repeatedly addressed this discreetly. This is a rather classic pilot project. There is an Austrian top sportsman who gives his name to a project that works internationally absolutely. Mr Markowitz! The international table tennis association does not butter anywhere 700 000, 800 000 € per year into a center in Austria. They're money coming in. And do you know what happened to you? – There is no single funding euro – not a single one – that goes into ongoing operation. I also asked you in the Sports Committee if it would be useful to understand pilot projects in Austria in such a way that huge boxes are put in place – buildings – and then there is no more euro. I mean, anyone who somehow understands what table tennis is will have known that this cannot be expected in the current operation. Who's to pay for this? Mr Markowitz, perhaps Mr Stronach, he could get a little money! But where do you want the money from the table tennis area? Should the parents of the children who are training in this table tennis service center get a lot of money into it? In Austria, probably two people have ever lived from the table tennis, and one of them has become world champions. That's completely absurd! Table tennis will never be a sport in Austria with which you earn the big money. If you want to promote such a thing, of course you also have to finance the coach costs. In the Sports Committee, they asked somehow cynically why German trainers should be paid. Do you know why this is recognized? - Because one of the world's best trainers came to Schwechat. He has left the German national team and is in the service center in Schwechat Trainer – for a fee, by the way, for which football trainers would probably not stand on a football court for even three days. I ask you to speak seriously about sports promotion priorities and then explain why such pilot projects cannot be promoted with the law you are giving them. A Thomas pattern will not touch a finger with this law in tennis; Swimmers who are inside will not touch a finger with this law, they can either go into the association structures one by one, or there is no money. This law has already been condemned to failure, and I can only tell you that if you decide so, you have been kneeling before all those who wanted to prevent the engagement of former top athletes in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e21034	Next speaker: Member of the Council of Ministers of the European Communities. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e21055	Mr President. Federal Minister! Appreciate Mrs Financiary Minister! I believe that the sports budget is sufficiently high and we can happily appreciate that sports in Austria enjoys a great deal of appreciation, that we have not had to take any cuts here and that you have been able to give us the guarantee in the Committee that we can also secure the funds for sports in the consolidations by 2016. This is important, which is well-invested money – in the social structure and in the health of the Austrians. But there are, of course, a few crack points in the budget. On the one hand, these are the works performed by third parties, which are relatively strong at 3.2 million, and on the other hand, the often required sports venue plan, which has been developed together with the federal states, so that we have structured construction work at the sports venues. There is, as it were, a certain black box in the budget, where we have some questions, and I would like to thank you now for promising us a detailed answer, because under the articles “Bundesbreitbaumodelle”, “Other sports major events” and “Other sports venues”, some €25 million are currently operating on a flat-rate basis. There would, of course, be very helpful for Members in detail to understand where the funds are being used. I believe that this is necessary for a transparent structure in the promotion of sports. We are going to do this together with the Federal Sports Promotion Act, where we have managed by involving all interested parties, that we can perceive the interests of public sports, and with the structure of the fund and the Commission, which has been criticised, we can guarantee the autonomy of sports. It should be very important to us that the sport is autonomous, that we do not create a state sport in Austria and can thus ultimately guarantee the unpolitical character of sports also in the form of the funding. These are the conditions we need in sports in Austria. Of course, we need improvements in the preparation and networking of the promoters and promoters. The design of the fund, and in particular the administrative costs, must of course be included in the next budgets. In 2013 the law will not yet be beating, so we do not find it there. I hope that we will finally find the administrative costs of the Fund, as mentioned by Mr Westenthaler, in the estimate for 2014. But I also believe that there should no longer be a disaster such as the Stadthallenbad in Vienna, so the sports venue plan and control in these areas is very important. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Street@item incidence access is by owner only]] If we read in tomorrow’s “crown” that 16.2 million euros were not put into the sand, but into a indoor pool, but that doesn’t work, then it doesn’t work. [[Abg. Strache: Is so with all major projects in Vienna!]] It's great and great when the city of Vienna invests in sports, only the Vienna swimmers have nothing of it if they can play the highest football in a indoor pool. That doesn't bring us any further in the sport. In the course of the discussion: I would like to say that I have a certain degree of oversensitivity to some Members who are concerned here in a hard discussion, especially in the field of defence. I believe that this is the living parliamentaryism that we need: a hard exchange of content, at the end of the day a decision to come together; that is important. Perhaps I can still point out, as a Lower Austrian, that tomorrow we are celebrating the National Day, the High Feast of St Leopold, which is well known as the Prince of Peace in history. [[Interoperability call at the SPÖ]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: But is it coming to Parliament?- Oh, my God!]] Perhaps in the next two days we will be accompanied by the Leopoldin spirit.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e21130	Next speaker: Mr Kunasek. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e21152	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Brosz, I am grateful that the topic of Schlager-Academy and Multiversum was briefly addressed here, because it was also an important issue in the committee and because, I believe, it is also symbolic of what we do not want to do. We want a sports promotion system that brings the money to the athletes, and not a sports promotion system where the money may be digested in any red-black channels. I am already looking forward to the speech of the mayor Fazekas, who may be able to put something right here, because the municipality of Schwechat is also majority owner of Multiversum Schwechat Betrieb GmbH. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] However, I also find it strange, Federal Minister, that in your budget you will be identifying the Schlager Academy as a supporter. Since the Committee, we know that it is not the Schlager Academy, which is a show project, but the Multiversum Schwechat Betrieb GmbH, which is very deficient and has quite a close relationship with the SPÖ Group. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, we will look at the new law carefully, and we will also try to close gaps. We have considered the opinion on the Sports Promotion Act, and we have noticed that there is an area that seems to be really falling through the rust in the new law, namely the most successful sportsmen with whom Austria can now expect, our disabled athletes who have achieved impeccable results in the Paralympics this year. It is already strange if, in accordance with the new sports promotion law, exactly these athletes are to receive 60 percent less funding, so I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that those athletes who have proved themselves to be a leading sportsman for Austria have deserved not to have to take cuts in the promotions. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Now a very short trip to the state defense. We have a debate which unfortunately covers both areas, but I also believe that it is necessary to take a brief look at individual speeches here. Mr Schickhofer, your arson for the professional army should be You may be holding it once in the context of a clause in the SPÖ Parliamentary Club or with the country organisations, because that does not even believe the SPÖ that it is the way you represent it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Gaßner.]] Fact will be – and I think I know that, even the Federal Minister, when he is closely observed –: ==References====External links== January will be lost. We liberals also say quite clearly: The Austrian has recognized that your numbering games, Mr. Federal Minister, do not work that there are difficulties in recruiting. It's nice that the media have now also recognized which number games are operated by you. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] If They write to 150 000 soldiers – former soldiers, Mr. Federal Minister, who disarmed them – in order to win them for a professional army, and answer you only 400 of these 150,000 – as we learn from the current media coverage – then I believe that the Austrian was on 20 June. January 2013 will make the right decision, namely a clear yes to military duty, a clear yes to the security of Austria and a clear no to a further hunger of the German army. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr. Federal Minister, 0.63 percent of gross domestic product?- Oh, my God! – Mr Prehauser, we were recently in Prague and met colleagues from other countries there, and of course it is clear that the economic and financial crisis is reflected in the defence budgets. But that you, Mr Federal Minister, are now acting as if this were the reason for the outcome you have achieved due to bad negotiations with the Federal Minister, namely 0.63 percent, and only putting the financial crisis at the centre, while other countries and other defence ministers have been able to renegotiate proper budgets, i.e. between 1 and 2 percent of gross domestic product, – also neutral and block-free states – is a sign that you are clearly overshadowed with your task. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! ==References== January, I am convinced, will be a good day for the security of Austria, if the Austrians will clearly punish the politics of you, Mr. Federal Minister, the politics of SPÖ, and a clear vote for the military duty, for a functioning federal army and above all, and that is the most important thing for the security of Austria. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Gaßner: Are you a fortune teller?]] Final sentence, Minister of State: I think that information policy should, of course, continue to be pursued here. Of course, we also need to inform people, but above all you should inform your party friends, because what has been presented here today is actually not worthy of parliamentarianism. It is actually disgraceful to hold here a security debate at the level on which it has been partly led by the SPÖ delegates today.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e21266	Mr President, who is bringing forward the second motion for a resolution that is still open? [[Abg. Kunasek: (on the way to his seat) A colleague!]] – All right, but there is no longer any part-session speaking time. [[Ironic Oje-Rufe at SPÖ.]] Only 20 seconds. But I don't know how it is. [[Call the FPÖ: That's all right!]] [[Abg. Straight: 20 seconds – we can do that!]] - Good. The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Kunasek is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e21378	Next speaker: Mr Christ. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e21400	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs Finanzminister! Minister of Sports! Actually, we are talking about the 2013 budget – to discuss the sports promotion law, there will be a lot of time and good opportunity, and we are waiting eagerly for the qualitative objections or proposals that are coming. Just one word I have to say to the ÖBSV: I mean, I get it when the ÖBSV fights with itself. There is a case of severe confusion of over € 1 million. In my view, this has not been clarified for a long time, even if there is a judicial decision. However, there is still a lot open by law. And the next thing I'm saying is: There are no cuts! Who claims that in the field of disability sports – whether it be the Special Olympics, the Paralympics or the ÖBSV – the wrong one is being shortened. He has not understood the law and has read it incorrectly. There is only one other assignment, but there is at least the same money as in recent years. - Just so much for it. However, we will still have the opportunity to discuss this in the Sports Promotion Act. This sport budget, ladies and gentlemen, has often been praised. 144 million €, that's good. It is gratifying because it employs 80 million in the special federal sport promotion, and this is very well-informed. They're also fixed and can't be changed, not down at all. This is very good because it ensures association and association work at a very high level. It is also gratifying because in general there are almost 46 million sports promotions available for sports venues, large sports events and the Red-White-Rot team. It is therefore gratifying because sufficient funds are available for special funding, for example the 2013 Ski World Cup. And it is gratifying because it can again provide a lot of positive impulses in Austrian sport. The fact that the means of sport are used in a meaningful and efficient manner also guarantees regular discussions with the individual professional and roof associations. And at the same time – you must not forget that – the most intensive preparations for major sporting events in Austria are already under way, which once again offer our associations the opportunity to show Austria and our functionaries worldwide as outstanding organizers of big events. For example, I just want to mention the World Ski Championship 2013, the Olympic Games, Paralympic Games 2014 in Sochi, the Kate World Cup 2016 in Linz, the Special Olympic World Winter Games 2017 in Schladming. So it's doing a lot of things, and there's a lot to do. Therefore: Congratulations on the 2013 budget, on active work in sports! A warm thanks to our sports minister Norbert Darabos, his entire sports office and the entire sports section – please do so – for their commitment and good cooperation with organized sports and thereby also the recognition and appreciation for the thousands of mostly volunteered officials in sports. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e21445	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Darabos. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e21466	Mr President. High house! Since there is indeed a mixture between national defense and sports, just a few words about sports. We have put federal sports promotion, and this should not be unmentioned, together in a legislative text so that we could increase from the previously limited or at least promised 40 million to 80 million €. You shouldn't forget that. Federal Sports Funding has increased continuously over the last ten years. I would also like to take out the field of Werner Schlager Academy. I am a little disappointed, Mr Brosz, because what we have done for the Werner Schlager Academy is unique in Europe. We have a total of about €3 million – only for the Werner Schlager Academy! – put in the construction costs, three times, namely the country and the municipal community, plus a promotion for the multiversum – these are in addition 8 million times three. So this is an investment in Austrian sport that is unique. And to criticize that in this form now – I just miss the words. You know, we have never supported the company in Austrian sport, and we will not support it in the future either, because it simply does not work, but as a federal government we will promote investment, invest in sports facilities. The countries have more money than we do. And I have to say, to criticize a good investment like this, I just don't understand. I have to say that quite openly. We will also promote the European Championship, as you know. We have brought the World Federation to Vienna and we also promote it. There's no such thing in the whole world. As regards the sport of disabled persons, on the comments made by Mr Markowitz, I would like to say the following: He is right, yes, we have now increased the involvement of disabled sport through the Red-White-Rot team. I was myself at the Paralympics in London. We will also be promoting disabled athletes through sport assistance – for the first time under my presidency in the field of sports aid. So I also ask here a little for a balanced and objective presentation of things. It is true that we also take disability sport seriously and take it more seriously than it has been taken in the past. In fact, we are now in a transitional phase. We will hopefully decide together – we are currently in the review period – a new federal sports promotion law. This goes in the direction – that has not been mentioned either; there are always only certain parts taken out – that there is more transparency, better control that there is also a clearer division between projects that need to be submitted and not, so to speak, distributed with the casting can, and also a clear division between peak and wide-ranging sports. I think this sports promotion law is going to be a milestone. I am looking forward to any suggestion within the assessment period and I am sure that we can also work out these suggestions. For example, a funding database has never been available in this form. In contrast to the countries, the Federal Government does not refuse to make these promotions transparent, and there we are in not only good discussions, but also in agreement with the BSO and with the associations as a whole. The Red-White-Red Team will be equipped higher than before. We now come to € 4.5 million – as you know, there has previously been a dosage of €2.5 million. There is money from the federal government for major events such as the Ski World Cup in Schladming. After all, a share of the federal government of €24.3 million, which is still disbursed here in 2013, €4 million in the budget. We are promoting major sports events such as the Table Tennis World Cup in Schwechat, Europe or World Championships in the junior sector, such as the Biathlon Junior World Championship, to name just a few things. We support projects – and this was discussed in the Sports Committee – sport and integration in the case, with €300 000. We support gender projects, “100% Sport”, with 200 000 €. I therefore believe that we can use this budget – and it was also praised – with € 144 million, as a federal government, and believe that this is good. I would now like to make two points very briefly. [[President Mag. Prammer is taking over the presidency again.]] I would advise Mrs Schittenhelm to stay away from the budget either on Friday or to vote against her minister's budget, because, as I have understood, she is not satisfied with this budget. That's okay, but then you have to show it in the voting behaviour. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr Stutz, this is typical: They're pouring me here – and of course they're not present! – I tell you, you have only been able to do what you have done here under the cover of immunity. Because I say quite clearly, we stand for disaster protection in every form. And while officers interfere in the political agenda, I do not interfere in the Austrian Federal Army's operational agenda and ensure that the mechanisms in the Austrian Federal Army operate in principle and that the soldiers can be used for the protection of disasters that are needed. That happened in Carinthia, too, and it didn't come too late for a minute: According to the requirement of the country of Carinthia, the soldiers have been set in march. I don't like allegations in this form!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e21552	Next speaker: Mr Höfinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e21573	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! We have thus returned seamlessly to the defence of the country, and as we see it, it is quite emotional, quite violent. I understand, because at this stage it is not just about the question: What will the budget look like next year, but it is also about the fundamental question: What is the use of the money, or what are the structures of the Austrian federal army in the future? I am sorry, Minister of State, that you have not answered so many written questions to you in the Budget Committee on the National Defence Chapter in full and not in concrete terms. It is not surprising, therefore, that some of the questions appear in plenary. Because – and that, I believe, is the core –: If a limited budget is available, you should also use it very specifically. We must discuss this question. And that is why I believe that the funds used for so many pilot projects you have initiated are: Do we need military service, yes or no? – and 30 million € will be co-imported, several dozen million € – in this phase for badly used money. That is what we need to talk about. And – Hand to heart – I do not understand your swirling in this question as far as military service is concerned. It has often been described how you fell from one day to another and have turned this question back to 180 degrees, from a defender of military duty to one who wants to abolish military duty. [[Abg. May. Rudas: And you? And you?]] But there is resistance in the SPÖ, Mrs Colleague, you need to know, and this resistance forms itself. I can show you a letter from the Sulz SPÖ community group in the wine district, which has written a resolution with a commitment to general military service. They are proud that they have decided unanimously to this confession in their community. They argue that in the future they are absolutely for military service and that they are in favour of reforming the military service – and we also call for it – and they justify their rejection of a professional force without obligation not by the fact that it would not be possible in real political terms, but by the fact that it is not ideologically acceptable for social democrats. That's one of the reasons! – Take a look at the website of the SPÖ Sulz in the Weinviertel. Therefore, Mr Federal Minister, I say: Take this to heart! [[Abg. May. Gaßner: Sit down!]] Send the money not to experiments, but to where it is best used for the security of the country!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e21629	Mrs Gessl-Ranftl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e21650	Madam President. Mrs Finanzminister! Minister of Sports! High house! ==References== The Ski World Championship takes place in Schladming on February 2013, which I am particularly pleased with as the Styrian MP. The federal government supports the state of Styria and the municipality of Schladming with a large package of investment measures. The federal share, which the Minister mentioned earlier, is at least 40 per cent of the investment cost of the sport, with in principle only the sports infrastructure, but not the event organisations being promoted. This World Cup, of course, means an enormous investment boost for the region of Schladming-Dachstein. Up to now, some €400 million has been added to the improvement of the infrastructure, and several hotels have been newly built, but also expanded. According to a study by the Ministry of Economic Affairs, this World Cup brings 44 000 additional nights. This is a sales increase of €6 million and an increased value added of €4.3 million per year. This World Cup will also be Austria's most important sports event in the coming years. All can be very satisfied with the investments made by federal government and country, and I thank you very much, Mr Darabos, for your financial support.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e21683	Next speaker: Mr Praßl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e21704	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Very briefly, some remarks on the Federal Sports Affairs: When you get € 144 million together, you can only be very happy and proud – something will be created. If I compare this to a year earlier, there's now 6.3 million more to thank God. The Federation is promoting – that has already been said by my colleague from Styria – in 2013, for example, the Alpine Ski World Championship in Schladming, and as a steirer you can only thank the federal government for taking action and saying yes to it. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] I think the general federal sports promotion, ladies and gentlemen, is very good, because it is easy to make improvements, because you have different construction projects, because stations are planned differently, sports facilities are improved and often enlarged. In general, we can only say that we are ultimately promoting youth. And training youth in the sports sector is, in my opinion, very much in favour. The fact is that people's health awareness has increased more and more over time. This is because people have finally come to believe that sport can improve the health of the whole body. In school sports you can only say one thing: The foundation stone for joy in sports is laid with very small children, who often start in the kindergarten and then in the primary school, in the gymnasium, continue to run the sport. Thank God there is something like this, because Austria needs an excellent training in the sports sector, which ultimately takes part in Austria, in Europe and also worldwide with excellent performances in events and competitions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e21740	Mr Wittmann came to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e21762	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! With regard to Mr Westenthaler's speech: Mr Westenthaler, the international trend in the sports sector is to make it independent of the Ministries and to allow sports bodies to decide how to promote top sports. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: That's right now!]] This has become very successful in England, the model of success, and this has been the model of success in Australia. The model you have and you address that you leave that to the Minister is the model you had in the Eastern block, which all the former Eastern Bloc countries now say goodbye to, because the state sport means. That's exactly what we want to prevent. We can only say that there has been a commitment by the Minister to ensure the autonomy of sports, because we thank God as a non-Eastern block country already decided not to introduce state sports in Austria, and we continue to leave sports autonomy. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Then the Ministry of Sports will get rid of it!]] This is the international success model from which the countries of the former Eastern bloc, which are active in sports, have already adopted themselves. It must be said that the commitment of the Minister to ensure the autonomy of sport was one of the foundations of our meetings. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: That's why it took two years!]] I think it is really presumptuous to think that the state sport is a cure. I think we should finally say goodbye to this really outdated idea. We should be really glad that we have a modern law that is based on the successful states and not on those states that have actually left this path. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Peter Haubner.]] We must congratulate the Minister for giving this commitment, which has also been implemented. Now to Mr Brosz: The top sports equipment has been removed from the top sports promotion, which is supposed to be joined only later, and the Minister can continue to specifically promote projects through the Red-White-Rot team and through the sport aid. That's guaranteed. There is now a summary of the top sports equipment in the back, and that really concerns the world-class sportsmen, so that you can get away from the casting can, whatever the Minister wanted. Before that, 50 percent has been set for top-ranking sports, and there too you can make success agreements. I think this is a modern law, a good law and a law that is perfectly coordinated with sport.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e21844	Next speaker: Mrs. Dr. Oberhauser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e21866	Madam President. Federal Minister! I don't think my colleague is a jewelry beater in the room. [[Abg. Amon: He's here!]] - Yes, here! Mr President, you have said that there are harsh debates in Parliament, open debates are being held, and that we should not be afraid of them. That's what I see! That is why we are looking forward to the debate that Mr Mitterlehner has launched today with his interview in the “Oberösterreichische Nachrichten” on how clean the decision from one aircraft to another has gone. He said he assumed it wasn't clean. To start the discussion straight away: Who was the Federal Chancellor at the time when this decision was made, for which we are now paying a lot of money? We have already heard what the operation of the Eurofighter costs. [[Abg. Jakob Auer: Who was then the Federal President?]] We are looking forward to the concreteization that we want to hear from Mr Mitterlehner, where he suspects that unfair business has been done. I assume that he will clarify this, and I assume that we will then hold the discussion here hard and fair. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We arrived at the time knowing that we were not convinced of the decision to buy expensive aircraft to take photos out of the air. I am already looking forward to the time when we have to deal with this business, because then the Minister of Defense has absolutely enough money to put a professional army on its feet quite neatly and without your concerns.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e21935	Next speaker: Mr Fazekas. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e21957	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, I already have to address the allegations regarding the multiversum schwechat, despite the short time available to me now as a speaking time. It is positive when the Multiversum Schwechat is mentioned here, because this is an important advertising value that we urgently need. But the multiversum has earned its name. It is called “The Hall for All. ” We have held big sporting events there and organized many other meetings. It's well-loaded. So those who are concerned about this need not worry. The project costs € 42 million. The municipality of Schwechat pays €30 million. All those who are concerned about this here are: I should like to have your concerns, ladies and gentlemen. We take care of this as a municipality of Schwechat. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Let me say one thing: Mr Brosz, you also need to talk to those people who know something about it and have more knowledge of it, not the person who is particularly desperate. I would like to have a hall built, then sit down, develop private economic activities and then wait for funding from the federal government, the country and the municipality. It won't work! Explain You're telling me: Why promote the Chinese national team who is training in Schwechat at the Werner Schlager Academy and then drive to Dortmund and become a world champion there? I don't think Austrian sport has anything of that. The Werner Schlager Academy has to do this by itself. That's their problem. I would ask critical questions once again and again about the payments from the International Table Tennis Association. I think I can remember, it's not even a third that's arrived. All these are things that you have to ask in a serious way. I like to sit with you, and then we can discuss that of length and latitude. You'll see, there's a lot of things that the Werner Schlager Academy isn't quite all right. Our Federal Minister, the municipality of Schwechat and also the state of Lower Austria, with only a small part, assume their responsibility. We are promoting the construction of this hall. I am also grateful for the prize for the European Championships, because it represents a huge added value. We'd rather leave the church in the village. It is necessary that we discuss this seriously once and not just polemize it. And please: Talk to the right people, too! Mr. Federal Minister, thank you very much! A wonderful project! We should not do that – in the interests of sports in general! – bad reason. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e22021	Now comes Mr Mag. Maier speaking. I set the clock to 2 minutes and make sure that the total rest period is 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e22042	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen, Yes, Mr Hoefinger, the resistance is forming itself! The resistance, however, is formed against the trickery of the ÖVP in defence policy. I am telling you this as an annual volunteer, who will lead this resistance in Salzburg itself, including with ÖVP members who are convinced that a professional army in Austria is meaningful and necessary. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! As a 19-year-old speaker, I held a press conference in Vienna with two other colleagues on the topic “Either a meaningful federal army or none”, and I say to you: Nothing has changed in the discussion from then until today! Reforms have been prevented, and those responsible are known! High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! But I want to talk about sports now. Federal Minister! Mrs. Federal Minister! I see a problem coming to our attention at European level, and we should discuss this together. In the context of the amendment of the EU Value Added Tax Directive, the reduced VAT rates should fall. This also concerns, among other things, broadband and amateur sports, including the admission tickets, but also other sports services. I would expect that there will be a clear position in Austria's negotiations in order to prevent that from happening. In conclusion, Minister of State: There have already been cases in the field of disabled persons where funds have disappeared. I believe – and Mrs. Federal Minister Mikl- Leitner is ready – that we should consider reforming the association law, in particular with regard to the separation of management bodies and supervisory bodies and the control of the association statute. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e22089	Mr Brosz has spoken on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Total residence time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e22110	Madam President. Mr Fazekas, only for the minutes, a quote from the No. 14. November 2012: "City has a total cost of 2.4 million. Euro after’. “The annual accounts of Multiversum Betrieb GmbH, recently published in the company’s book, raise some questions. A high level of negative equity requires measures by the shareholders.’ “In the case of multiversum, the costs for the city are increasing as a partner in heaven.” I quote: “The annual accounts of Multiversum Betrieb GmbH, recently published in the company’s book, raise some questions. Thus, society is over-indebted and has a negative equity of EUR 4.23 million. If the figures are deducted from the previous year, the annual loss of EUR 3.56 million will remain for 2011.’ Congratulations on the “wonderful” utilization of the multiversum arena!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e22161	No one is reporting on this. The discussions on this subject have thus ended. I'll interrupt the meeting until tomorrow, Thursday, 15. November 2012, 9 a.m. Negotiations will take place with the deliberations of subheadings 20 to 22 of heading 2: Work, social affairs, health and family continued. The sitting was suspended. [[21:20:21]] [[The meeting would be held on Wednesday, 14. ==References====External links== ==References====External links==]] [[09:05:19]] Continued the meeting: Thursday, 15. November 2012, 9.05 a.m.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e22214	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen! I'll take the interrupted 181. National Council meeting again. For today's session, the following Members have been reported as preventing: Clickovits, Mag. Schönegger, ing. Hackl and Grosz. We continue with the budget consultation. The meeting will be held today on ORF 2 to 1 p.m. and on ORF III in full length. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e22249	For today’s session day, a block-time of 9 ‘Vienna hours’ was decided, so that the following speaking times can be reached: SPÖ and ÖVP 131 minutes, FPÖ 113 minutes, Green 95 minutes, BZÖ 86 minutes and STRONACH 68 minutes. The breakdown of today's discussions is known. [[09:06:19]] Heading 2 (Work, social, health and family) [[09:06:20]] UG 20: Work UG 21: Social and consumer protection UG 22: Social security
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e22295	First, we reach the consultation of heading 2, work, social, health and family, with subheadings 20: work, 21: social and consumer protection, as well as 22: social security. A joint debate is taking place on this matter. Mr Kickl is the first to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e22323	Good morning, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister! I am glad that you, Mr Federal Minister, have found the time today, and I am saying this without subjecting us to discuss with us the essential key elements of the social budget. I think it makes sense to ask the question whether the strategies you pursue are the right ones, and whether the means, the methods you use to achieve your goals defined by you are the right ones. It will not surprise you, Mr Federal Minister, and you will not be surprised if I tell you that some of the goals you have set ourselves do not find our support, that we are not in the opinion that the methods you use to achieve them are the right ones, and that, in our view, some very important goals are missing. I'll take this straight ahead, ladies and gentlemen. In the course of the further debate, my fellow Members will also make appropriate proposals for freedom, one of which is common: If you were to accept them – which I do not expect because you are uninstructable – then this would lead to an improvement in the situation on the labour market and to an improvement in the social situation for Austrians, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I mean, to do it would really be enough: We have a record unemployment in this country with regard to Austrian conditions – and now please do not come to me with the international comparison, Mr Sozialminister. I have already told you a hundred times that it is a comfort or even a help for no Austrian unemployed person, if he is constantly told by you that it is much worse elsewhere. Your frustrated comrades in your party have no idea if they are told, given the continuing decline of social democracy in Austria, that there are some spots on the globe where the socialists are even worse, ladies and gentlemen. This is neither a comfort nor a help, so please save us this time in your report. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I believe that it is necessary to come to a “Austria’s first!” policy in the field of the labour market. This is quite, very essential, because I have now looked at a few numbers in a question I have received from you, and I can only tell you that it is shocking – and there you should listen carefully from the social democracy side: Please, ladies and gentlemen, 19 percent of the total expenditure of the AMS is expenditure for foreigners – this is due to a request answer from you! – and 34 percent of the expenditure of the AMS concerns persons with migration backgrounds. Is this, ladies and gentlemen, the situation we want from the Austrian labour market? From our point of view, you are massively on the way in the wrong direction. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] It is wrong from our point of view, ladies and gentlemen, to see how you deal with the problem of increasing risk of poverty in Austria. I would just like to give you an example, Mr Sozialminister: Winter is at the doorstep, and we will have a heating-cost debate in Bälden – but in a vehemence like we never had before. Now I don't know – you're double, because you're also Minister of Consumer Protection – are the people who need gas, electricity, energy, not consumers? They are addressed as Minister of Consumer Protection and as Minister of Social Affairs. One thing can't be from a liberal point of view, namely that these energy groups, where you have some hands on it as a state, write fat profits, but at the same time you turn off the electricity and the gas to the socially needy Austrians! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Neubauer]] We have to go other ways, perhaps even up to our own social tariff for our citizens, who cannot afford to do so. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] What is it like, ladies and gentlemen, with income? – Well, on the paper, on the money notes, this income increases. But if you look at what you get in the business for these notes, Mr. Social Minister, that's going to be less and less real. The purchasing power stagnates or even goes down – and there you are also twice required: double demand also again in your function as consumer protection minister, because that must They first explain to someone why the same product in Austria is far more expensive than a few kilometers away, beyond the German border. And nothing will be done, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The same is true of the people who put the little money they still have on a savings account. The interest rates are in the basement, although the banks get free money from the ECB in good German, free money with which they continue to operate – but if you come to the sick situation to have a cover, then burn like the famous Luster, ladies and gentlemen! They pay themselves stupidly and depresses at these banks, to which the money is paid free of charge. And nothing is done again. You are Minister for Consumer Protection, Minister for Social Affairs! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] What about the pensioners? The pensioners, this is the group that, by continuous non-adjustment under the name of an adjustment, is now one of those who most contribute to the operation that I do not want to call reorganise a budget, but stopping budget holes. These losses of value are gathered all over the years! And here, too, nothing is done by you – but with the political pensions, you keep the lid on it with the principle of trust, which has long been abolished for the construction savings. Ladies and gentlemen, this is going in the wrong direction! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] On the other hand, this federal government has no problem with exporting millions of funds in the form of family subsidies to abroad each year. Ladies and gentlemen, we liberals would turn this around, and that is why I am right to say that there is enough to be done, including for you as the Minister of Social Affairs. But what is your day-to-day employment at the moment, Mr. Minister? You have a completely different range of applications: They are, as it were, in the constant use of assistance for a Minister of Defence, who has been involved in a completely unnecessary debate on military service and civil service in a dead end. I have not found one in your budget, namely a strategic goal that you would have to make a commitment to the Minister of Defence in the form of an assistance. This is not your job, and you should not be happy about it, but you should be annoyed that you now have to spend energy and money to abolish something that works much, much better and cheaper in the existing form, namely in the form of civil service, Mr Sozialminister. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Let's take a look at what you're presenting in the form of this new social year, and then we'll see in Windeseile that this project is very, very budget-effective – but I tell you, it's budget-effective in a way we don't want Austrians to have it. It is once again budgetaryly effective – to our detriment. What's this supposed to look like? They talk about an employment relationship for men and women of 18 years old. Life-year into the pension. Apart from the fact that I have already asked myself, like older unemployed people, who are mostly physically equipped with deficits, who are supposed to take over the work of young civilians – but you will certainly know how it is going; I am enigmatic – they have a salary classification at lower collective contract level for health and social professions, that is 1,400 € grossly 14 times a year, ladies and gentlemen. So this is not a particularly attractive package, except you assume that your policy leads to a further increase in the number of unemployed people that you have a pool from which you can so to speak serve endlessly. And then, after a year, Mr. Social Minister, the whole matter is over, there is no further perspective for these people. This means that a affected unemployed person coming from another area is even further away from the labour market than he was before. So, and now something comes along that you have to look at especially. This year also means full social security – full social security! And because in the European Union you can be everything – you can't be undemocratic, you can be wasteful, you can be fraudulent – you can't be only discriminatory, at least not against foreigners – you're not that precise with the domestics anymore – you can't be discriminatory here either. And this means, of course, that this social year is also open to all EU foreigners, Minister of Social Affairs. This is a very interesting aspect. Getting Now You'll say again: Yes, these are the Germans. - I don't need the Germans in this area either. I don't need them if I have a civil service that works. But of course it can also be the Czechs, it can be Hungary, it can be the Poles, it can be the Slovaks and it can be the Romanians and the Bulgarians from 2014 onwards, Mr. Federal Ministers, who then find an interesting activity as a substitute for the civilians in Austria, which may be lucrative for them, but may not be for the Austrians. Do you know, Minister of State, what you're producing together? [[Abg. Old man: crazy!]] What you are doing here is nothing more than constructing another intrusion for migrant workers, because there is nowhere to guarantee that you will find Austrians in sufficient numbers to pursue this activity. [[Abg. Oils: That's getting more and more spooky!]] After a year, the entitlement to claim for the social system is there – of course! – the pots are then open to those who were inside earlier this year, and you also have the problem of having to re-occupy this position after a year – perhaps again with one coming from the Czech Republic, Hungary, Poland, Slovakia or other places. – I can't do that. You're serious, Minister of Social Affairs! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinzl.]] That's what I'm telling you: We Liberals do not want to have such a social foreign legion as you imagine! [[Calls and calls between Mr Heinzl and Mr Mag. Stefan.]] We want at all, ladies and gentlemen, that there is no competition for repression, which looks like the Austrians are being pushed into unemployment, as we are experiencing at our eastern border, and these new employment conditions, which you are talking about, are employment relations of people coming from beyond the border that is still existing for us. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] This is not a profit for the Austrian labour market, it is a threat to the Austrian labour market. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And because you do not believe it, I am bringing you, Mr. Federal Minister, a quote from your colleague Muchich, after all, chief of the trade union Bau-Holz, who says: “Unfortunately, our warning of additional cheap workers from the new EU countries through the free movement of workers 2011 is confirmed by current labour market data.” – The date is 9/2012. “The reason for this is obvious in the construction industry: Since the opening of the labour market in 2011, there has been an increased exchange of workers and employers in the domestic market. Although we currently have more people in employment in Austria – this is your employment miracle – “in parallel, more Austrian and integrated foreign workers become unemployed. New cheap workers from abroad are causing this increase." Ladies and gentlemen, I am saving you the other information from your social democrats from the areas concerned, but that is a fact that we have to do with it, and this has nothing to do with free propaganda and any ‘miscarriage’. Go to colleague Muchitsch and ask him why he believes it is necessary to point out in his own newspapers and comments that the situation is more than serious. Our idea, Minister of State, in this area is at least another one. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. New builder.]] “Austria first!” in the labour market, this must be a principle that is a real guideline and creates a rethinking throughout the labour market policy. [[Abg. Oils:... against the social dumping law!]] Now I know that's the more complicated way. It is much, much easier to compensate for the shortages in the labour market by foreign workers, but one thing I say to you: In the energy sector, that is, an essential sector of the future, we have already understood that it is bad to go into dependence on others; on the labour market you have not yet learned that it cannot be a permanent state if we in our own country are no longer able to train our lockers, our carnivores, our installers and the like, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This is an example of many for the failure of your labour market policy and your social policy as a whole. And if you want to claim to solve the many problems – ladies and gentlemen – then you would have had to take your heart into your hands once and then you would have had to show the willingness to go new ways away from the already trampled paths. With your budget, you will remain guilty.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e22500	Mrs Csörgits is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e22521	Madam President. Federal Minister! Mrs. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! It takes very good stomach nerves to hear such a speech so early in the morning. [[In the case of the SPÖ, representatives of the ÖVP and the Agg. Oils.]] A speech that is raised against foreigners, against foreigners, against old people, against young people, against women, against men. [[Abg. Kickl: Talk to the musician!]] – This is the typical of the FPÖ: Hotting, heating, but never offering solutions! [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: That's not a hetification, that's fact!]] [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Not ready to break your head over what you can do to combat unemployment. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stefan.]] But we know that from you. It is always the same in the Committee, it is always the same here in plenary, and in fact I am tired of dealing with you, because the figures we have in connection with the labour market situation in Austria – even if you can't hear it anymore – are excellent. [[Abg. Kickl: Who forces you to abolish civil service?]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] However, we do not rely on it, not only say that we have low unemployment in Austria, but also do something to combat unemployment. This federal government has done this successfully, ladies and gentlemen, and will continue to do so. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: And why does unemployment rise from month to month?! Explain this once!]] Apart from the fact that we have the lowest unemployment rate in Europe and youth unemployment is also very low, we also have the highest level of employment in Austria, which I would like to stress. [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: In the EU, not in Europe! This is a mistake!]] With 3.5 million unemployed, we have the highest level of employment in Austria. I am particularly pleased that 46 percent of these are women. These impressive figures do not come from anywhere. A lot has been done for this, I can only give you a few figures along the way. With the support of the AMS, 460,000 people found a new job in 2012. More than 9,400 young people have already taken part in apprenticeship promotion this year, and more than 5,000 women have taken part in very targeted measures for re-entry. Now, of course, we are aware that, because of this very good position in Austria, we have a positive point in relation to the labour market situation, but we also know very well that we cannot decouple ourselves from the world economic situation and that it is therefore also to be expected that the number of unemployed will increase due to the decline in the demand for labour. In order to counter this, measures can be put in place, this budget will provide €1.3 billion for active labour market policies. €1.3 billion, ladies and gentlemen! This is the third highest budget ever decided in this area. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] If the funds for active labour market policy are also charged, the figure is €2 billion. Ladies and gentlemen! There are measures to bring young people into the work process, measures to ensure that people can stay healthy on the labour market for longer. Measures are being taken to increase women's access to work and family life. And there are also measures that place a very special emphasis on the fact that health in relation to the labour market will also be of great importance. On this occasion, I would also like to point out in particular that the Federal Ministry for Labour, Social Affairs and Consumer Protection has specifically achieved the objectives of the very excellent work. The Ministry of Social Affairs has set the objectives precisely, very intensively and ambitiously and has drawn up strategies for achieving them. I would particularly like to thank the Federal Minister for this, but also all the colleagues in the department. That's important, that's necessary and that's right. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The objectives are, among other things, - I mentioned them briefly - to improve the employment of older workers, to improve the opportunities for women to return to work, to the situation of young people on the labour market and, of course, to improve the health situation in relation to the workplace. These are important, necessary and right objectives. Finally, I would like to thank you for being clearly visible in the social resort that the active people in Austria are at the centre. All measures will be taken here for the active population in Austria. – Thank you very much to the Federal Minister, the government partner. I would also like to thank the social partners. Thank you very much to the colleagues of the ÖGB, the Chamber of Labour, the Chamber of Commerce and the Industrial Association, for there is also a lot inside that originates in the social partners. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e22655	Mrs Mag. Honey's coming to terms now. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e22676	Madam President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen! Minister! Mrs. Minister! At the beginning, just briefly to Mr Kickl: When it came to protecting Austrian workers from cheaper workers from abroad, as you call them, when we decided on the wage and social dumping legislation, where it was precisely a matter of protecting Austrian workers from wage and social dumping as part of the opening of the labour market, the FPÖ did not agree! [[Abg. Kickl: Do you know because you produce a toothless paper-maker after another! These are loud fig leaves without effect!]] And so I could give you some examples of where you are simply not willing to do constructive work. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] First of all, I would like to say a few basic things. Yes, certainly, in the European comparison, the unemployment figures in Austria are still lower, thanks to God, but it is also clear that the money we had the last time for economic and labour market packages is unfortunately not available this time. A second point: They not only praise the low numbers of unemployed, Mr Minister, but also the increasing employment. And in this respect it has to be said quite honestly: It is not high-quality full-time jobs, which have been created in recent years by this growth, but to a great extent part-time jobs, atypical jobs, of which one cannot live. You have to look at this clearly more critically than you do. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] A third point, where I also wish for more honesty and openness: Some of the so-called growth sectors are consistently subsidized by unemployment insurance. What do I mean? – Unemployment insurance carries the cost of standing time in connection with temporary workers. And another phenomenon that is increasingly concerned: It is not only that we need to compensate for seasonal fluctuations in tourism over unemployment insurance, but more and more companies in tourism are also going to log out during booking fluctuations within a season employees and employees in short term. This means that many of the costs of these sectors will be borne by unemployment insurance. And I think this hidden subsidy of several million needs to be more openly discussed. Ladies and gentlemen! I would now like to make a few specific comments on the budget, which is sub-groups 20 and 21, work and social affairs, which you, Mr Minister, have formulated and mentioned, and the measures you want to achieve the objectives. Its first objective is to improve the working and working capacity of older workers. – I think none of the measures you are taking here is wrong. Finally, I even know that you and the AMS make much more than those measures contain. But I have to address a massive problem here, I have to point out: No matter what you are doing, we are doing here doing AMS as long as companies simply release workers who reach a certain age or a certain wage level, because they are so expensive, and replace them with younger, even cheaper workers as long as the practice is, you can try all possible measures, it will change too little. I think that just changing this practice among companies as a whole is a very big labour market challenge that we all need to solve together in the next few years. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The second objective is to define an increase in women's employment. And again I have to say: Not one of the measures you have mentioned is wrong, I support it, but a blind spot is still the question of the quality of jobs in which women are predominantly active. They always define quantitative goals. That means that you are dealing with a very specific employment rate of women. But we are only going further if we look at the incomes of these women – something has to go on. Women's incomes have to rise significantly, and that's why it's very massive. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] On the one hand, it is due to the high part-time employment rate, on the other hand, to the poor wage level in the so-called women's sectors: trade, care and also hairdressing. Mr Minister, I expect you to be even more committed, both in the interests of the women concerned and in the interests of the public budget. Your third objective, which you call, is to combat the current labour market crisis; a crisis which we unfortunately expect to culminate, that is, which is still ahead of us. – The very central point is certainly the scarcity of the resources available for active labour market policy. Mr Minister, you yourself have confirmed in the Committee that next year, where we have to expect a further increase in unemployment, the resources available per individual unemployed person for training and advice will fall. You say you hope that the crisis will not last all year, you believe that already in July unemployment will go back. I must say that I am skeptical in view of the overall stable situation in the financial and economic market in Europe. We needed more resources for active labour market policies. I think that's very urgent. I know, Mr Minister, that you are quite likely to share this issue, and that is why my appeal is rather addressed to your coalition partner, the ÖVP, because I think that investment in active labour market policy is always very good – also nationally, very good – investments. Its fourth objective is the major issue, partly problem-related, youth employment. . You know that I appreciate your commitment, Minister, in this context. I think that the training guarantee in this area of the problem has really made a clear contribution to us that there has been a great deal of work, but would also like to point out again and again to the problem or the fact that we are still faced with a massive decline in operational training places. Only 14.2 percent of all companies today train apprentices. Only 14.2 percent! If you say, Yes, but the number of free teaching places increases again, we have more open apprenticeships than young people looking for teaching places!, I must ask for a little more honesty here too. About two thirds of all free teaching places are teaching places in tourism in Salzburg. And that, due to the framework conditions for the activities in tourism, these apprenticeships are not very popular, nor do we really open up a positive career in employment, we unfortunately know that too. I think, Minister, we urgently need a reform of the dual training system, we also need a further development of over-company training – something I would strongly support – in this context we urgently need a reform of education and also an extension of compulsory education. I know that you, Mr Minister, are not directly responsible for all these points, but I think it is also your labour market interest that there is something going on. At the end of the day, unfortunately, I have to address a really critical aspect that you yourself are discussing in sub-group 21 with your aim of combating poverty. Unfortunately, what you are proposing here as combat measures – I have to call it so – is annoyable. I would like to read this specifically to you so that you can imagine it. As a measure to combat poverty, the Minister defined: “Development of the priorities of the Federal Ministry’s contribution to the National Reform Programme under the EU 2020 Strategy”. As a second point: “Objective information about experts and the public about poverty reduction”. So information about poverty reduction. Finally, “free use of visitor support” and “energy advice for vulnerable and vulnerable persons”. Ladies and gentlemen! A million people in Austria are poor or at risk of poverty, and these are the measures that the Minister wants to fight against! I find this very disappointing. In the Committee, SPÖ has more or less defended this situation with the lack of competence for minimum security by the Minister. But I have to point this out again: A legal minimum wage, a relief of the lowest income, including under €1200, from the high social security contributions or an urgently necessary increase in unemployment benefit, all of which would be anti-arming measures that would fall within your competence and would be urgently necessary. They would all fight poverty efficiently in Austria. But unfortunately you do not take up all these proposals and not take them up. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen, it's so easy: Poverty and unemployment cost much more than their effective fight. We have long known that investment in this area is already expected to be economic in the short term. And if the whole thing is not really a concern for you for social policy reasons, please do it because of the budgetary relevance. The fight against poverty and unemployment is, you have to call it, just a good business. And I wonder when everyone in this room finally understands.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e22761	Next speaker: Mr Wöginger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e22782	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr Sozialminister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Schatz, we will not introduce a minimum statutory wage, because we trust in the social partners. [[Abg. May. Honey: I know!]] [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] We have already reached and trust in this legal minimum wage in over 90 percent of all cases. [[New call of the abg. May. Honey.]] In order to combat poverty, there is also an open word: We have the compensatory allowance rate in the area of pensions, we have introduced the need-oriented minimum insurance. [[Abg. May. Honey: From which you can't live!]] I therefore think that in Austria we have a dense social network which is in keeping with the comparison with other countries that you do not find in our neighbouring countries at all. That is why I would like to say that we are allowed to live in a genuinely social country and rather must be careful to ensure that all of this can be secured in the future, ladies and gentlemen. [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. Csörgits.]] Introducing a few key figures on the budget, after all, a budget after one of the biggest crises that Austria managed well. A consolidation path has been taken by our Mrs Finanzminister. Expenditure is falling by €1.5 billion compared with 2012. That is, the deficit continues to decline, from 3.1 to 2.3 percent, and we will reach the zero deficit in 2016 and will no longer spend more than we take. The savings and reform package from spring with around €27 billion takes effect. Ladies and gentlemen, the right measures have been taken: We are saving on the one hand, because this is necessary, but on the other hand, we also allow for growth and employment. This brings me to work and social affairs. We have good labour market data. – This is nothing bad, Mr. Kickl! But, of course, we must try and do everything we can to ensure that those people who do not now have a job come into employment. Our unemployment rate is 4.4 percent, and we have the lowest unemployment rate in Europe for two years, and that is not bad, but a positive signal for the Austrian population, for the people in our country. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] We also have a high level of employment, we have plus 30 000, plus 50 000 employees compared to the previous year, and this is also a positive element of our labour market policy. You should recognize that too. We have the third lowest youth unemployment rate, the teaching centre market is developing thanks to God, and we must do everything we can to ensure that young people who have or get a job, in particular, for young people who have a job. Unemployment is hopelessness, ladies and gentlemen, and especially in the youth field, it is our obligation and our task to provide young people with a place of training, a job. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] A total of € 2 billion will be invested in this area, also useful investment, and I can only mention one example. The “Action Future Youth!” guarantees all young unemployed between the ages of 19 and 24 within six months either a job, a training or a promoted job. A few words on the social field. I have already mentioned that we have one of the highest social quotas in Europe. There is a need for reforms. Ladies and gentlemen, we can also secure this for the future. There is a package of invalidity pensions on the table on which the government has already agreed. The temporary disability pension for people under 50 is abolished. It is a full programme in the field of medical rehabilitation, retraining and financial support with a view to keeping people in employment longer. It is our task to introduce the actual retirement age to the legal person. A year longer in employment brings 1.4 billion. This, ladies and gentlemen, is the task that we as politicians have to be able to pass on to our youth a pension system from which this can also live. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The care fund, ladies and gentlemen, secures the care money and the funding of the staff. 200 million are planned for 2013. The care fund is an important institution in the area of the financing of care. Ladies and gentlemen, the budget is going in the right direction in this area. If you agree, the successful path can be continued in Austria!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e22875	Mr Dolinschek is speaking next. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e22897	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Wöginger, we all know that we are not so bad in relation to other countries in Austria as regards unemployment statistics or employment, but we should not be guided by examples such as Greece or Spain. That's clear once. We need to focus on those who make it better. I just want to say that in the first place. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Shopf.]] If today – and this is stressed by you, Mr Federal Minister – this is also legitimate – we refer to the low level of unemployment in Austria, to the low level of youth unemployment in Austria, to record employment, then, as I have already said, we are actually very good at the international comparison. But it is also a question of maintaining this low unemployment. However, it is on the rise. That is not to be denied. We have seen an increase in unemployment in all areas. In the case of youth, it is rising low, but above all – this is the great child of concern, Mr. Federal Minister, that you say always again – it is the “50 Plus”, and there is hardly any job opportunities in this area. When people apply from this age group, it is never mentioned that they are not stopped because of their age, but they are looking for excuses – and there must be awareness in this area. The Red Alert Level, Mr. Federal Minister, also applies to: If you look at unemployment statistics, you can see that few qualified people are, so to speak, the beneficiaries of tomorrow's social assistance. That's it. We need to work on this, and it is also quite plausible to say that, for some 75 000 young people in Austria who do not have compulsory schooling, it is also necessary to allow these people to complete compulsory schooling, to become better qualified and thus to remain in the labour market. You'd actually have to start in compulsory school. Today we have the polytechnic course, where all the countries that do not have until the 8. I've come to school. In fact, a labour market check would have to be carried out in order to prepare people for the labour market and to allow them to complete compulsory schooling. I was pleased to hear, Federal Minister, that there should, as it were, be a youth coaching in order to address these deficits of compulsory school leavers. It is good that you should have a positive school degree, that you try to get people to have a teaching place, just to point out the economy. The economy needs the professionals of tomorrow, and it also needs to train them. Now there are over-company training places, but they cost three times as much as a normal apprenticeship, and often once – Mrs. Colleague, it is now. [[Abg. May. Honey: It's not true!]] I myself had people in a metal processing plant who came across the over-company apprenticeship training site of the ÖGB. They just didn't have the practical relationship as it is in a farm. They need a longer period of time before they can understand the work processes. If a person in a farm completes a teaching, that's quite different. He's growing with this company. That's a big difference. [[BZÖ and Abg. Dr. Bartenstein.]] [[Abg. Oils: Costs!]] Mr Federal Minister, you say that you must also have the opportunity to re-acquire the course if you have broken down a teaching. It's like a student dropped out of school and picked up school. Yes, of course! But we have to start right away and not only from 2015. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Your goal is to do so from 2015. – In my opinion, this would have to happen at the same time – not in the gray future or in two or three years. We can do that from next year. It can't be that hard. As for people with disabilities – I have read through the budget chapter –: People with disabilities are only seen as marginalizing notes, which is actually not at all an explicit issue for the Federal Government in this budget. It is not in the objectives of employment or unemployment – although unemployment for people with disabilities is of course also rising at such a time; of course, they are the first to be affected and, so to speak, to be a burning problem – nor are they mentioned in the social security legislation of people with disabilities. There is a lot of action in this area! - There's nothing in there. For people with disabilities, I believe there should be pension insurance for workers in the disabled workshops. That's a long-lasting subject, I know. One thing or another is a matter of country, but this is actually all part of the federal government and of the federal government. That would be the most important thing on this point. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. Dr. Bartenstein: An anti-federalist!]] – Yes, as on the subject of youth protection, Mr Bartenstein: [[Abg. Bucher: Stand by!]] We all know, nine different youth protection laws, no one in Austria understands that one does not unify that. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] In fact, this is all part of the federal government and uniformly regulated in Austria, and not as it is now that there are other rules in each federal state. On income: Of course, wages are not regulated by law, but they are regulated by the KV. I agree with the Green Group that we say we need a minimum wage. Mr Federal Minister, you have always said that the social partners are doing this about the KV, only 95 percent of those employed in Austria have a KV, and the other 5 percent do not. That's exactly what this 5 percent is all about. These are precisely those areas where the service providers actually deserve relatively good, but the employees relatively little – in the profession, for example. But it is precisely there that we introduce a minimum statutory wage, which is also linked to inflation. If we demanded €300 gross years ago, it would have to go up with inflation every year. The Greens want an hourly wage of, I think, 8,50 € or so, you get the same thing. In the case of full employment, not part-time employment, this must be quite possible! Even the workers' chamber president of Vorarlberg is of this opinion. When you read the reports from the Chamber of Workers newspaper in Carinthia, you can see that President Goach says there: Yes, we are for a minimum wage on a KV basis! - But the other 5 percent are out again. They'd have to be in there too, that would be an important concern for me. Mr Riepl told me the last time there are several things to consider. It is not only the wage alone, it is also about labour law, working time and so on, which one must negotiate. However, Mr Colleague, working time and labour law are regulated by law. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Riepl.]] This does not concern the KV – also, but there is a legal basis. Why don't I do this in pay? So, in my opinion, the minimum wage is regulated by law. [[Aufgaben bei BZÖ und der Abg. May. Honey.]] On poverty development in this area, Federal Minister: If I look at the ratio of income to rents in Vienna, rents have increased by two thirds more than income. This is a total loss of real wages that we have in Austria, and especially in those areas – if I look at Salzburg, it is very extreme, because soon there is no social housing and so on, that is already immense – the lever has to be set up. You have to earn so much in the future, if you are busy, that you can live on it too! [[I should like to congratulate the BZÖ and the Greens.]] Part-time employment is all right as soon as there are two partners, one of whom is full-time and the other part-time. One alone will hardly be able to live by part-time employment. The working poor are also becoming more and more, Mrs Ober-hauser has often proclaimed that in her trade union newspaper, and has shown how it is. It just can't be that way. Mr Federal Minister, I appeal to you – you also come from the social partners – to: The labour force needs to be deducted in the future, we have too high taxes on labour force, and the wage tax is now the highest tax to be delivered. In this direction something has to be done! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] With regard to pensions, I am also pleased that there is a measure of prevention before rehabilitation in the event of invalidity pensions; no question, that is the right way. One should keep people in employment longer, one must, of course, also create jobs for the elderly, and above all, one has still not done one thing: You haven't stopped with the privileges – no matter if that's the National Bank, whether it's the Bundesbahn, and so on and so on. That's what you're slowing down. In the case of social security institutions, it is best to have the benefits of the officials and the benefits of the ASVG insured and then receive much more pension than anyone else. The public sector with this scheme is drifting away from the others. There is still a lot to be done to make it fair in the future in Austria. We should not, above all, focus on those who are worse, not on Greece or Spain, but on those who have it better than we do in Austria!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e23038	Mr Riepl is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e23059	Madam President. Mr Sozialminister! Mrs Finanzminister! Mr Dolinschek, I noticed in your speech that you differed from your colleagues who spoke before. You mentioned positive things and you practiced criticism. [[Abg. Dolinschek: Yes!]] I think it's okay on the part of the opposition, too, in contrast to the liberals who always view everything as bad and want to make everything totally messy. I noticed that, and I wanted to mention it. Ladies and gentlemen, the 2013 budget also brings more justice in the area of social security, I would like to express it. On the labour market policy, my colleague Renate Csörgits has already given an opinion and said a lot. I would now like to comment on pension insurance. We experience it almost every week that anyone says the pensions are insecure, it is insecure that they are not eligible for funding, and much more. I believe that it is socially fair that the federal contribution is and remains a cornerstone of the financing of our statutory pension insurance. I remember when the General Social Security Act was created, it was completely clear – and it was a different time than today – that: Contributions by insured persons, contributions by employers and a contribution by the State to the guarantee of pensions. I think that is also important and good, because with the organisation of the federal contribution as a failure liability, as we have prescribed in the law, the overall social responsibility for the financing of statutory pensions is clearly expressed. Ladies and gentlemen, however, it must also be mentioned that, for example, for workers and employees of the Federal grant for pensions is only 15 percent, while this federal grant for other groups is much higher. What does that mean in German? – At 100 € pension paid to a former worker or employee today, 15 €, i.e. 15 percent, add federal grant. How does the industrial economy look? – There comes 53 percent, i.e. 53 € per 100 € pension, and the farmers even 78 percent. I repeat: 78 per cent federal grant from farmers. The federal grant is also higher for officials than for the ASVG sector. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: is logical!]] Now there are good reasons why this is so, but actually no reason why the contribution of those who need a higher grant is less than the others. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber.]] Of course, lower contributions for farmers and farmers to the pension system also mean that the grant is increasing, clearly. That is what I wanted to point out, Mrs Finanzminister. I think we might need action to look at this. In other words: The father's state or, if I look at you, the mother's state treats the children differently as far as the federal grant is concerned. [[Abg. Pendl: “The Mother State”, no one has said that yet!]] They treat the children differently, which, as I mean, is not very well done. Mrs Finanzminister, you spoke yesterday about the'swirling of taxes', your words, and you welcomed them. I am also pleased when the taxes are bubbling, because that means that someone has to go well somewhere in this country, because otherwise it would not be. Unfortunately, they have not said a word about the fact that there are also many taxes and taxes that do not swirl, but those that simply don't go where they should go. We have 100 million € per year alone in social security schemes, which must be credited as unintroduced taxes – 100 million €! These are pension contributions, health insurance contributions, and so on and so on. They're written down, they're gone. I think that simply taking 100 million a year is not all right, nor is there 45 percent of these 100 million employees' contributions. They are therefore deducted from wages and not transferred from their employers to social security. If all entrepreneurs in our country pay their taxes and taxes as correctly and on time as the employees and pensioners do, then, I believe, we will soon have no deficit. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I think, ladies and gentlemen, it is necessary, once again, to make this clear and clear, and I call on all of us, and in particular you, Mrs Finanzminister, to set up more activities in this area. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e23138	Next speaker: Mr Markowitz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e23159	Madam President. Dear Federal Government! High house! Minister, in the field of employment, you have a budget of €6.4 billion available, where only €5 billion are essentially available for the labour market to finance the unemployed. Another €1.4 billion is planned for active labour market policies, i.e. training, qualification, employment promotion. But in your 2013 report, it says that: They will invest € 2 billion in the active labour market. This should work, as you believe that you get more money or more money from unemployment insurance, from the people in short-term employment, in order to create better training so that people get to work faster. We'll see all of this, we'll find it all right. But what we must not forget is that if you compare 2010 with 2013 figures, that 2010 cost us a unemployed person in the year 8 300 €, that was the highest level. In 2013 it is €7,200, which is €1 100 less, as inflation is not yet included. Mr Minister, you've always been talking about effective funding lately. I can absolutely welcome that. Effective use of funds is a good thing if something is saved at the end of the day, but we still have more people in employment. But now the economic researchers are telling us something quite different, namely that it will be so in the future that we will have a problem on the labour market in the next few years. We can't talk about that either. But this certainly has nothing to do with the fact that people are not well trained that we do not have good entrepreneurs who want to recruit employees. Now we have to work against it, because it is really true that 7.4 per cent, i.e. 277,000 people, are unemployed, as those in the training courses are not yet present. If this continues, the forecasts tell us that next year 65 000 people will be able to find no work in this country. Mr Wöginger, you said earlier that there are currently 30 000 to 50 000 more people in employment compared to the previous year, even faster, because the economy and growth forecasts are so good. Okay. But you also know that the forecasts for 2013, 2014 are quite different. – If it were the same as you say, we would almost no longer have an unemployed person. In any case, I would like to see what you said to be so feasible, because then we would have no problems and no more unemployment in this country. But that is not the case! We must therefore work effectively to ensure that entrepreneurs recruit young people and train apprentices, not only in the way that we say that we support the teaching workshops. I say: Every teaching workshop in Austria is good when young people get a job after that, it is quite clear whether it costs three times as much or not. Every youth who was a unemployed person who was then well trained is worth it to me! [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] I'm absolutely right. Nevertheless, Mr Kickl, we need to work to ensure that the Austrian businesses re-train young people and apprentices, so that we have a lot more people in employment in the end. Let us take a look at the statistics of the EU! You have to imagine this: The costs for unemployed young people in the EU countries amounted to €153 billion in 2011! The unemployed young people across the EU cost € 153 billion. You have to imagine that! And these are the long-term unemployed of tomorrow! These are the people who just don't have any more prospects. I know, Minister, that you are not responsible for the whole EU. You're doing a good job in Austria. We must not forget, however, to do everything we can, including the Minister for Education and the Minister of Economic Affairs, that in the long term we train young people best that they really have opportunities in the labour market. This applies to the language as well as to basic accounting methods et cetera, so that in the long term we have truly self-confident Austrians who exist on the labour market, not only in Austria but also across the EU. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e23225	Next speaker: Federal Minister Hundstorfer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e23247	Madam President. Mrs Finanzminister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would now like to comment on a few points, go straight ahead and see what the individual parties who think here are doing, we are doing nothing. First of all, I would urge the Liberal Party to review its position on the wage and social dumping law, because if you claim here that it is toothless, I recommend that you talk to the companies that have in the meantime received very fine administrative penalties and also pay these administrative penalties! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] If you claim that this law is so toothless, then read the article of Mr Muchich as a whole and look at what we are doing in the wages and social dumping law! It is not a toothless law, but it is an answer against dumping! [[Abg. Kickl: You take repair measures instead of preventing them!]] You were not even worthy of approval, and then you come here and claim that everything goes down the stream. Then at least you would have voted in favour and once proved backbone! - That's one point. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Kickl: Stop flicking together afterwards, but avoid it!]] If in a country where there are people with migration backgrounds, these migrants, who have long been Austrian citizens, allow themselves or happen to become unemployed once again, and you then create yourself here, claiming that these people do not hack, Mr Kickl, then that is really the lowest level. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Kickl: 38 percent with the AMS!]] We also have 38 percent in the total population, you know that very well! Don't always close your eyes or try to develop anything from the deep drawer! We live on the fact that we are also a country of immigration. Tyrolean tourism only lives by sightings [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein.]] You're looking at reality! Please speak to the honourable Member. [[Abg. Strache: This is your model! You also want a Turkish mayor for Vienna!]] We don't want a Turkish mayor, Mr. Strache, that's your imagination! But part of the Austrian identity is also marked by immigration. That's your problem. That's it! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Operation You don't have a panic like that we're going to have Polish or other Zivis at once! Look at reality! In Austria, 90 000 people start employment per year in social and health issues: 90 000! And of these 90 000, if we manage to get this vote going this way, a certain part will also find its way through this rail. That is exactly the reality of what we currently have. This is the reality of life. Mr. Kickl! I know. With the realities it is sometimes difficult. [[Abg. Kickl: There you have your problems!]] I have no problems at all! And when some talk about our activated budget and so on: First of all, we have an asset budget, the third largest ever since the Second Republic. - That's one point. [[Abg. Kickl: Yes, that's good! That promises nothing good!]] Point two: If you count the active measures, we will have 2.2 billion available next year. What are the active measures? – This is the increased training fee. That's 2.2 billion. That's about 100 million more than 2012. It is well known that there will continue to be a small increase in unemployment. – We also have €6 000 more for active and active measures per jobless person. This is our answer to a difficult situation in the labour market. That's our answer! Our answer is not how to drive people out of the country. No, no, no, Rather, we are concerned about how to work with the people who are there properly, how to integrate, retrain and train them. Mr Dolinschek, I cannot understand why you think that we are not going to have the course exam completed until 2015. I don't know what line you read there! But we can then discuss this in peace. – The fact is: It is a permanent process that we only want to strengthen and strengthen. If some here today think we are working on pensions with special pension forms and so on, then take You are aware of: In all the facilities where there were special pension forms, the new workers have not received a special pension for many years, but they receive an ASVG-pension like everyone else. Now we have a time of transition, and there you see: The liberals who thus defend human rights have no problem at all to go and say in terms of 100,000 people: Get off the beet! You're getting a pension reduction! [[Abg. Kickl: You say, “From the Beetle!” That’s your program!]] That's exactly what you're saying here! They simply claim that you should shorten the pension ad hocly to these people and switch to ASVG-pension. You have a lot of lawyers sitting in your ranks who, as I believe, can inform you! [[Abg. Strache: You leave the pensioners in check without a pension adjustment!]] We don't let anyone down! What did we do? – We did what was necessary: First of all, we have introduced the pension scheme where there was no one, and we have partly increased it where it existed. That was our answer because we are in favour of justice, because we want to work and work with these people, and because we respect what “transition ” means. That's the point. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein.]] – If I have to get a call for order for the term “fowl!” I apologise immediately so that there is no misunderstanding. I would like to make another point: We have a development on the teaching centre market, with which we currently have an export article in Austria, I think. We not only export our high-quality products in the steel industry or other industries, but also, of course, with tourism, we also have an export offer that is currently very useful with what we do: We are activating the labour market policy of young people. We are going with the youth coaching next year to all the federal states and will then have finally captured all the federal states. If it is said here that these OCTAs are so expensive: Yes. The OCTAs are not exactly a very cheap program, not a question. But I have already said this twice in this House and I like to say it a third time: If I immediately find enough operational apprenticeships, then the number of OCTs immediately decreases. [[Abg. Strache: Wouldn't you have abolished the flower bonus?]] The flower bonus is not the subject at all! Why don't you talk to the economy? We have quite different problems! Do you really want to talk to traders about why we don't bring a certain group of young people into teaching places immediately, why we need this detour? Why have we always approved the OCTAs for only one year? - Because of our The aim of immediate integration into occupational training is and remains, not at all, a question. With regard to our planning target regarding availability of OCTAs, we are far away from utilization. We currently only have 8,300 young people in over-company training, although we would have 11 000 BBA places available if we needed them. Fortunately, however, we do not need them because there are occupational teaching institutions. But we also have a problem that we can easily take note of and work on: This is the image of teaching, the question of which image a teaching centre has. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] No, no, no, That's where everyone is required. Mr. Kickl! The image of teaching is a social challenge. This has nothing to do with party politics at all, that is a social challenge! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein.]] This has nothing to do with party politics at all. You're completely wrong! You have to go to the people, you have to talk to the people. And something should give you some thought: For the first time in a federal country, we have a teaching gap, i.e. more open teaching places than teaching places. For the first time, we have something in a country that we have never had, namely in Upper Austria, the main industrialized country with huge numbers of skilled workers. There, for example, apprentice coaching and youth coaching has been working quite well for some time together with the state government and the social partners. But we have an image problem that is related to someone saying: I'm learning meat or gas and water supply installer. We have this image problem, and we can only solve this image problem together. This has nothing to do with party politics at all. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz.]] What I would like to tell you about – although I know that this does not fit into your line of argument: For older workers, we have an increase of 10 per cent in generation 60 plus in the first nine months. This means that many measures are beginning to work. 10 percent plus is not the world, but 10 percent plus is a right step in the right direction. That is, the employment of the elderly also begins to work pretty slowly, and we have the highest increase in generation 50 plus. Some measures are also starting to take very easy action. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Riepl: That's right!]] Before I finish, I would like to briefly mention two things: I know that there are some sectors in which the issue of the collective agreement has not yet been clarified. We have a very high collective contract membership in Austria, but there are some sectors in which the collective agreement on this €1 300 still depends. Since I know that in some parties there are Members who are lawyers, can I ask that in this sector, which is one of our children's concerns, everyone try together – Mr Hofer, have you ever listened to me? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ing. Hofer.]] I invite everyone in this industry to bring the minimum wage to the €1 300! I know, of course, that this realite will be paid. But this is not my subject, it is a matter of collective treaty issues, and I think we can move a lot. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I would like to conclude by saying that we are, so to speak, a cold country and do nothing for people with disabilities: Those who deal with this massively know very well that we have the compensation tax fund as a labour market instrument for these people. For many reasons, the compensation tax fund is not part of the budget but is managed separately, and the compensation tax fund continues to provide €160 million per year for activating labour market policies for people with disabilities. And in the entire AMS package, 22 or 23 million are also only available to the group of people with disabilities. That means we're not looking away, we're looking at it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e23510	Next speaker: Mrs Tamandl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e23531	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Mrs Finanzminister! Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that Mr Kickl, in particular, should be said at all to the opposition address: We must first save and take consolidation measures in order to have scope for the future at all. [[Abg. Neubauer: Where were you yesterday? Didn't you listen?]] They always make demands and then say: The government is not doing well. [[Abg. Kickl: Did you sleep all day yesterday?]] I didn't sleep! I heard your speech today, and you have to say that: You're always sorry. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] We have the lowest unemployment rate in Europe. And that we can deal with these problems, we proved before the crisis. That is why we have come through the crisis better than other countries. You must also take note of this and not always be allowed to vote! Perhaps you could also take out the positive that the government has done. This happened before 2006 in a government in which FPÖ was also involved, but you have agreed! You're offended because you split up, and now you're bringing the brother's war in here. That's not all right, either, because it's about the matter. [[Abg. New builder: I don't know what split the ÖVP!]] Mr Federal Minister, something is very worrying, and we should consider it: Of course, unemployment is rising, especially in Vienna. Hand in heart, Minister of State: You yourself are from Vienna. They were countrymen in Vienna and as ÖGB president one to whom the working population was concerned. But if the city government continues to do so in Vienna, one must already fear that the companies will be driven out of Vienna and that, if this continues, we will lose jobs in Vienna, which we may never get again, because then there will not be any additional farms in Vienna. We can't watch that. Federal Minister! I think you should go to court with those responsible in Vienna! On the pension reform of the state of Vienna: Federal Minister! Of course no one wants to intervene in contracts. But let's be honest: We have also implemented a pension harmonisation with the federal officials. However, the mayor in Vienna says very well: All that the black and blue government at the time passed laws doesn't interest me, I don't put that into practice! – We will not get tired of stressing this over and over again. In this case too, Mr Federal Minister, you should speak to your comrades in Vienna once, so that there may be an increase in the retirement age in the past too, because the current situation is neither fair nor internal Austrian in solidarity with regard to the servants of the federal government. I would like to come to what Mr Riepl said about the depreciation of social contributions: I think it's important to give this more importance. And whoever was in the budget committee during the final votes and who listened to the Minister of Finance, what was caused by the financial police – that was the former KIAB – who knows: €105 million has already been entered by September 2012, 15 million of which are administrative penalties. I can tell you quite openly – that is all our concern, that is to say, everyone who deals with employee policy and employee representation –: The companies are now more afraid of these so-called GPLA tests, namely those additional labour costs audits, than of financial audits. And for the workers, it is sometimes quite unpleasant when there are results that are unpleasant for the companies. It may happen, therefore, that bonuses, gifts or any goodies that are intended to raise the motivation of employees also lead to tax payments and social security repayments, which the entrepreneurs then have to bear. I would like to say to you, Mr Riepl: We need to deal with this together so that this will no longer happen in the future. I want to see that the companies that provide for their employees properly and motivate their employees are not unduly harassed. [[Abg. Riepl: That's our opinion!]] I would like to see businesses that withdraw the taxes, withdraw the charges, carry out social dumping, properly examined and then punished. [[Abg. Riepl: The black sheep belong!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] I can't leave what you say, it's so and so many repayments and so many residues. There's a lot of testing going on, there's a lot going on. The financial police are doing great things, I can tell you from the practice. So please consider You can talk about this and you can talk about it in practice! Do not always bring this example that here are so many residues that are not driven in. On the contrary! A great deal is being done here, and we are also in favour, because we want to fight this very strongly in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e23635	Mr Ing. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e23656	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I have already experienced a lot and am not a fearful person, but whenever Mrs. Tamandl is at the speaker's desk, I get scared. [[Cheerfulness and applause at the FPÖ.]] This is because it puts so much energy in it, to be very, very grotesque. I hope, Mrs. Colleague, that this is something else in your private life. [[Abg. Lueger: What are you doing? That wasn't very nice either!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, if we look at the budget a little bit more closely – what is a freak, Mrs Colleague? – As far as I'm concerned and as far as I'm concerned, I think Mrs Tamandel has more humor than you. [[Abg. Silhavy: Naughtiness!]] [[Abg. Silhavy: That's none of your business!]] She laughed and she knows how I meant it. [[Abg. Silhavy: Hopefully!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Let's take a closer look at the budget! You know, of course, we have great contributions to make to the rescue of so-called Pleite States. We have already paid €2.2 billion towards states that are not so good in Europe, in the European Union, or better said for banks that have speculated there. I can well remember that some time ago we had a very intense discussion about the Eurofighters. Right! From my point of view, the acquisition of the Eurofighters was a clear mistake. But these Eurofighters have cost €1.5 billion, and €2.2 billion we have actually already paid for the rescue of this banking system in Europe. And you have to see these relationships, please. Let us now look at our tax and tax rate: 43.1 percent in Austria. What do we have in Greece? – 31.6 percent, Spain: 31.1 percent, Portugal: 33.2 percent. The Austrians are right to ask why they pay so many taxes here to save systems in which much less taxes are paid. Why is that supposed to be so? [[Accompaniment with the FPÖ and the Abg. Kaufmann-Bruckberger.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In his rather blatant speech, Federal Minister Hundstorfer also raised the question of disability policy and mentioned that he is doing a lot for disabled people in Austria. Mr Federal Minister, if at this point on the government bank a black, blue, green one, whatever sat social ministers and did the same for disabled people like you, the SPÖ would rightly call upon this Federal Minister to resign. I'll tell you why. We now have a 25 percent value loss in the area of care money. This means that the needy and disabled people in Austria lack an annual amount of €500 million. That also means for the federal states that they will be much more involved in the future. Only many have not yet realized that. Because in the moment when these 430,000 people who are being cared for at home in Austria – most of them women – I do not hear anything from the Minister for Women – yes, I honestly debate, Mr. Colleague, but you sit at the back, I hear you so badly, you must continue to come forward. [[Abg. May. Josef Auer: Talk about it honestly!]] These are 430 000 people who are cared for at home and then get too little care money; if they have to get home, then the countries pay the benefits in kind. And these benefits and the benefits of the countries and communities already amount to €1.2 billion. I am eager to see how this will be financed in the future, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That is why I would also like to make the following request, and I am pleased to see colleagues voting: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Abg. Strache: This would also be necessary for family support!]] [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Riepl: Why didn't you do that when you were in the government?]] Mr Riepl: "Why didn't you do that?" – It’s always the same thing: You have a trauma from this blue-black government, you're still done. [[Abg. Riepl: Understandably!]] – Mr Commissioner, at the time – for you to understand – we had not yet lost 25 percent of our value. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bayr.]] - Hello! That wasn't the case at the time, now it is. And why does the Minister of the State not do it to Hundstorfer? Ask him why he doesn't! That's where you can ask the question! I know it hurts. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Wittmann: Very weak speech!]] The same applies to allowances for disabled people. Mr Riepl, because you are so apt: How much percent is the loss of value for disabled people? Do you know? [[Abg. Riepl: Say it!]] - You don't know. – 60 percent is the loss of value. What does Mr Houndstorfer do about it? - Nothing! 60 percent loss of value for disabled people. Please, I wonder how you can simply go about such a topic, that it doesn't matter! Don't do anything at all! That is why I would like to make another request, Mr Riepl; perhaps you will agree. [[Abg. Dr. Wittmann: Weak!]] Motion for a resolution by Mrs Ing. Courts and other Members concerning the provision of resources for the automatic annual adjustment of allowances for disabled persons The National Council wants to decide: "The Federal Government, in particular the Federal Minister for Labour, Social Affairs and Consumer Protection, is invited to forward to the National Council a government template which includes an automatic annual adjustment of the amount of allowances to inflation. In the 2013 budget, provision should be made for this measure." [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Federal Minister! They are also responsible for the areas of work and people with disabilities. I'd like to give you a few figures. [[Prolonged calls of the Abg. Katzian towards FPÖ.]] – Mr Commissioner, calm down! That's unhealthy. In 2006, there were 29 000 disabled workers in Austria – you are a special lamp, Mrs Colleague! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] [[Call the SPÖ:Hey! Say it!]] Since 2006, the number of disabled people has increased from 29 000 to 38 000, from 12 percent to 17 percent. – Mr Federal Minister, if here a minister of the ÖVP, the Greens, Oranges, the Stronach team, the Freeman, as always sat down, you would rightly criticize him because you would say he has done too little for disabled workers in Austria. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And women are particularly affected. There were 10,000 disabled women in 2006 who were unemployed. [[Abg. But there's nothing to hear from the SPÖ women!]] - That's it. Today, there are 15,000 disabled women who are unemployed. What have I heard from the Minister of Women so far? [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: nothing!]] What should be done for disabled women who are unemployed? - Nothing! My colleague, Mr Gartelgruber, told me earlier because you talked about collective agreements, especially in professions where many women are particularly busy, there are no collective agreements. What does the Federal Government do about it? – Nothing, ladies and gentlemen, nothing at all! There has been another measure, Mr Bundesminister, who called the ARBÖ a "cold attack" on people with disabilities. The ARBÖ is not a precursor organisation of the FPÖ. They did last year the removal of the NOVA refund for those disabled workers who depend on a vehicle because they cannot use public transport. It was like this: If you are a disabled worker and you need a vehicle, then you've got the NoVA back. That's what you just painted down to zero ice-cold. [[Abg. May. Lapp: You should say everything, Mr. Hofer!]] That's why, mine. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to make a request: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr Federal Minister, the next measure against people with disabilities, and because Mrs Lapp, I think, said that everything should be said. Yeah, I'm saying everything! The mobility grant was reduced from € 780 to € 580 – a “over-social” measure. The disabled have been very happy about this. [[Call the FPÖ: “Great”!]] You can imagine that. And there's something more to it. It is even now that this grant for disabled people, who are only marginally employed, is completely deleted. This too is a “very great” measure of the Social Democratic Federal Minister. I congratulate you on that. Really, really, really great. I would therefore like to make another request: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr Federal Minister, you say so often in your speeches: That's not my topic! – Look You're looking at the realities! Mr Federal Minister, personally – I really have to tell you – I like you very much, but your political line does not please me so well because I believe that someone who has spent his entire life in the protected area creates his own realities and often does not cover these realities with the reality of the people in Austria. I am now also telling you a reality that does not directly affect you, but in turn disabled people, where I ask you to work for a measure to be taken back. They know that we were unfortunately not as successful at the Olympic Games this year as we would have liked. At the Paralympics, however, we were very successful. And what does the Social Democratic Federal Government do now? – In the new Sports Promotion Act, it reduces the basic funding for the Disabled Sports Association from € 1.1 million to € 480 000. - Yes, that's right, Mrs. Colleague. [[Abg. Bitch: Mr. Darabos!]] [[Call the SPÖ: Don't vote!]] You need to find out more. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that this Federal Government must make a real effort to work for people with disabilities. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You know, everyone else can somehow help, everyone else can help. Banks can help themselves if they get into financial difficulties. We can all help ourselves. But a disabled person, a needy person can hardly help himself. And just putting on the red pen with these people, that is particularly unsocial, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e24059	Member of the Court of Justice! For this call of a Member to: “You are a special lamp!” I ask you to apologize.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e24090	Madam President. I said in my speech that it is unhealthy to get excited. And this mandater said to me: You need to know. And now I hope that you will also understand my opposition.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e24124	Mr President, I am going to review the Minutes once again, but I will be reserved, since it is also really in the form of a call for an order. The four motions for resolutions have been properly tabled and are under negotiation. The four applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e24334	Next speaker: Mrs Königsberger-Ludwig. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e24357	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Estimated Minister of State! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr Hofer. So many claims have now been made in the room that I would actually have to use my entire speaking time to straighten out some things. [[Abg. These are facts! It can be ignored or admitted!]] However, I do not want to do this because I also want to say a few positive things that have been very well implemented by our Social Minister in the field of disability policy, Mr President. You know as well as I do, for example, that some important measures have been taken in the field of care payments in the previous year. We decided on the care fund. And you know exactly as well as I and many other colleagues here in the House, that there will be further efforts to secure the care allowance, that there will be financial compensation negotiations wherever we talk about it, and that the care allowance and the safeguarding of care are a very important concern of the Social Minister. Mr Lapp will address this even more closely. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I find this – Mr Hofer, perhaps you can listen to me very briefly. [[Abg. Ing. Hofer talks to Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein.]] He doesn't listen anyway. I find this fear really unreasonable and also that one does not help the family at all, nor does it help the people to be cared for, if one simply makes allegations, always spread fear and really does not bring anything positive to the whole subject. [[Abg. Strache: These are facts that are shortened! Do you want to negate cuts?]] Another point that has been raised, Mr Strache, is that the Federal Minister has not set targets for people with disabilities. [[Abg. Street: Ask the people who sit in the wheelchair and don't get any allowance for car accessories!]] - That's not true either. In sub-group 21 ‘Social’, an effect target is defined, a measure that clearly aims to improve support for people with disabilities in the labour market and to enable them to participate in all areas of life. I think it is our goal to make it possible for people with disabilities to participate, but, ladies and gentlemen, there is a need for a number of measures. It is not only the Federal Minister for Social Affairs who is required. There are a number of measures. For me, for example, this includes raising awareness. That is, we are all required, society is called for - I have said this so often - to look at the strengths of people with disabilities and not always focus on the weaknesses. - That's a measure. The second measure is to make public funding available so that these people can be integrated into the labour market. Mr Kickl! And that is exactly what happens with a budget of €160 million plus the 22 sides of the labour market service addressed by the Minister; these will help to ensure that the measures can be rewritten, that new measures are also available. There is already the “fit” programme, there are new measures for young people with disabilities. You have to recognize that. It is important to us that people with disabilities should be integrated into the labour market, because that is what makes life self-determined possible, Mr. Strache. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But – and I would like to stress that in the direction of economic wings –: It also needs the willingness of entrepreneurs to employ people with disabilities. All programs do not benefit if the economy is not willing to give people in our performance-oriented world a real chance. We are all required to work together for this. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I would like to make one last wish, because I really wish this was said by Mr Jarmer: I would like to see in one of the next budgets the targets of action for people with disabilities, because then the National Action Plan for People with Disabilities will actually be implemented.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e24448	Next speaker: Mr Oellinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e24469	Madam President. Federal Minister! Mrs. Federal Minister! [[Towards Federal Minister Dr. Fekter, who is on the side of the government bank]] I actually wanted to praise you for taking part in the debate, now you're a little backward. I have something for you, a special issue because I think it makes sense for a Finance Minister to participate in chapters which do not directly concern her in the budget debate. So I think it is quite appropriate and important for you to participate in such debates – and you certainly have something else to do. - That's one. Second, Mr Kickl: When you started your speech, I was almost optimistic. I thought, yes, at last, perhaps we could do it once, to create a debate in which positives and negatives – and you have suggested that you want to mention this – are dealt with against each other and you can somehow see where there are deficits, where something has gone on. After your speech, I have to say that was really terrible. What are you afraid of? [[Abg. Kickl: In front of this budget!]] What are you afraid of, for example, if the social service in Austria were to be claimed by young people – on the assumption that this is the case, a social service, as proposed by the Federal Minister – would also be claimed by people from the Czech Republic or Poland? [[Abg. Strache: With compulsory military service, the social service makes sense, as a supplement!]] I'll tell you what the problem is. I would be pleased if it were so that many people from Europe in Austria would claim the social year – or whatever it may be – because I have the feeling that it makes sense, always assuming that the conditions that have been characterized by the Minister of Social Affairs have been proposed. Why, I'm telling you that by the example of 24-hour care. They know as well as I and everyone here, that the conditions under which this 24-hour care takes place under the law are disastrous, that they are a permanent violation of labour and social law, and that we all here, although we have often talked about it, allow such conditions to exist. It is paid badly, far below any collective agreement and far below all labour standards that are acceptable to us. That's how it looks, Mr. Kickl! [[Abg. Kickl: You won't solve the problem by creating a new one!]] I would like us to be glad that the Philippine nurse and the Chinese doctor, as well as the Czech voluntary social service provider, are doing a job here in Austria – on conditions that are regulated by collective agreements, which are workable and which are also social-law-friendly. This would be a major step forward, Mr Kickl, and nothing to fear. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The situation we now have in the 24-hour care system is that people from Moldova, from Ukraine – what I know where – are going to work here under some illegal or semi-legal conditions, can only return every two or three months, if at all, or once a year – there are also appropriate films that can well document this – and otherwise they can go home in the care and care work in Austria, on conditions that are unacceptable. [[Abg. Kickl:! You're talking about two completely different things!]] There's nothing to talk about. But there are alternatives to that, and one of them would be a social service that takes place on conditions that are okay and acceptable. On this point, the Federal Minister would have our support if it had come so far, that is not clear yet, absolutely. - That's one. Second, Mr Kickl: They have discussed the issue of employment in such a way that wage dumping is carried out in the Eastern Länder – not only but quite more there – that companies from Eastern Europe offer work on conditions and conditions that are not acceptable. - Right, that's it. It is also true that the wage dumping law, which you did not agree with, provides only insufficient protection. We have also pointed out that we have also proposed, and that is why it is also proposed, that there should be a generally binding minimum wage. I am not using the word ‘legal’ now, because one could also try to regulate a general collective agreement. Sometimes – not always, but sometimes – they voted against our initiatives for a generally binding minimum wage. Now I ask you: Why? - That's one. Second: If we want to do something in this area, we probably need more and better facilities beyond the institutions we now have, wage dumping law, KIAB et cetera, which are able to operate in this area, or we give existing institutions more competence as to whether this is the labour inspection, the KIAB or what I know who. But it's clear that there's a problem. In part, the wage dumping law helps us, but it does not help where companies, for example, specifically try to subdue complete orders – complete orders, I know – in order to become addictive to them. An example from the construction industry: If an order costs €150 000, then a company from Poland, or what do I know from where, the construction company offers the order by €100 000 and says: Let's share the rest. There are Austrian construction companies that embark on it. And there are other practices in this area, which can only be held if the order actually takes place. Then you can complain. This is, of course, a huge problem. You can't just make this happen – I spoke to Mr Riepl about it – and then complain. We have a legal problem here, and we should talk about it, but we should talk about it rationally and not pretend that this is a practice that is favoured by politics – no matter who, the Federal Government or by Austrian laws. [[Abg. Kickl: But don't you notice that we're just fixing up misjudgments?]] Unfortunately, this will not be prevented sufficiently, and I have just mentioned to you some measures to change this. However, they have not been involved in the measures already in place, and that is the problem. That's why I'm wondering: Why is the Freedom Party most upset by all parties? Probably – I tell you that and I have told you – there is a problem in the area of the Freedom Party, if you think about the parties as a whole, most of the officials who have ever had a problem with blackwork in the past. [[Abg. Kickl: Please?]] Should I list you all? [[Abg. Kickl: Now you put something on the table?]] From Haider in the Bärental to, what do I know, to Wiener Gemeinderaten, Kärntner Gemeinderaten, Salzburger Landtagsreiter, in whose holdings were black-worked? - No, I'm not. [[Abg. Kickl: That's incredible what you're doing!]] [[Abg. New builder: This is inconceivable what you give of yourself!]] Mrs Federal Minister Fekter, you are here now, I am talking about another chapter that is really in my heart, about the problem of the objectives of action. This, of course, also concerns the Minister for Social Affairs. I welcome the fact that, in certain areas, the objectives of action which the Ministry of Social Affairs has defined or tried to define are, in some way – let us say – hyperrealistic. What do I mean by that? There is an effect goal: To increase the economic participation of those at risk of poverty, the "economic and social participation of those at risk of poverty", I believe. This defines measures on how to achieve this. I understand that by increasing the economic participation of those at risk of poverty, there should be less poverty. On the other hand, if work is forecast to be an increase in unemployment – and this is not an accusation but a realistic one – then one can and must assume that this will also increase the risk of poverty. This means that an impact target in the field of social affairs, an increase in economic participation, contrasts with the other objective of impact in the chapter work. That's all right. What can you do about it? – What you could do, and unfortunately this is not in it, is to try to counter the poverty threat of the unemployed, which is the most vulnerable of all groups, in the case of unemployment benefit and emergency aid via valorization or a gentle increase in the net replacement rate. - It's not done! I would like to mention another example, and that is what you, Mrs Fekter, are talking about, and I think that this isolated view of the departments defining their objectives is a problem in this area. In the section on pensions – and I am not now dealing with the objectives of the social sector in particular – the social sector is that the report on public pensions, which means public pensions, is not the subject of the work of the Federal Ministry of Social Affairs and that the report on public pensions has not been forwarded to the social resort, because it is not competent. However, there is a transitional stage also in the area of civil servants' pensions, the general pension law also increasingly applies to the so-called civil servants' pensions. That is to say, for a comprehensive consideration of the pension system, Mrs Bundesminister, it would be urgent for a place to have at least a comprehensive view of all pension systems. It won't help. It can continue to be done in such a way that public pensions, public pensions, the Federal Chancellery or the Ministry of Finance, and social security pensions in the Social Ministry, and in ten, twenty years, or actually it takes even longer, so in thirty, forty years we have the common pension system. But we are now in a transfer to this common pension system, and therefore it takes a place or, in any case, a view on all pension systems, and I am not yet talking about the supplementary pension systems or old pension systems. This is urgently necessary. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Third point: In the chapter on the objectives of action, it also says: more health, less disability, in the chapter Work also: Protection of the health of workers. And there it says that the number of sick days should be reduced. There are also steps to be taken, as can be done, but these measures already refer again to other social security bodies which are not, of course, located in the Social Ministry. I am not saying now that the Social Minister should also include the accident insurance institution and the health insurance institution in his place of business, but we need a comprehensive view, otherwise we will not be able to take effective action in this area. If, on the other side of the accident insurance institution, measures are now being launched again, which actually have nothing to do with the contract of the accident insurance institution, namely the remuneration for the sicknesses of self-employed, then I say that is not possible. [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. Donabauer.]] All of you, ladies and gentlemen, know that the accident insurance contributions are a tribute to employers for the liability they have to bear to the workers they are responsible for. This is what these contributions are for. Just because these contributions are paid by employers, it must not be the case that from this pot, which is then called “employer pot”, all possible financing is to be done in connection with the tasks of accident insurance. I am very much in favour of extending the area of accident insurance, towards general health prevention, not just for or against occupational diseases at work. And if you want to do that, then it should be in this area, but you should not simply dig into really alien tasks in the field of accident insurance. [[It was in favour of the Greens as well as of representatives of SPÖ and ÖVP.]] This leads back to a policy that we had already in the eighties and nineties when all the possible tasks were assigned to anyone who had just had money. Sometime then one has said that now one no longer knows what is being done and no longer knows who is funding what, although there should be a clear allocation of tasks for each social security institution. Last point: We are of course discussing very abstractly here in the budget negotiations, and this is sometimes a huge problem. But there are very specific problems, Mr Federal Minister, who repeatedly appears, for example in the area of unemployment benefit, in the field of care and care, very specific problems, so that one sometimes has the impression that, despite a relatively well-developed social system, one cannot really solve these problems adequately. I do not know how best to do this, but I do believe that strengthening in the area of your department by means of an ombudsmanship, by increasing the number of speaking hours, by what I know – most favourable would be an independent place that is not directly related to your ministry – would be necessary so that these problems in the area of unemployment, in the field of care and care, where they are really massive, can be solved in times of scarce cash. Federal Minister! Mrs. Federal Minister! I hope that, as far as the pension problem is concerned, I will not receive a better answer now, but in the next few years I hope I will get a better answer than those currently identified with the objectives of action. I just mention one example of the missing impact goals: If, in the field of civil servants' pensions, the timely payment of civil servants' pensions is indicated as an effective goal, then I must honestly say, no na net, that can't be it. [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter: I am not responsible for this!]] There must be a little more to be expected from the targets of impact in the budget.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e24659	Mr Huainigg has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e24680	Madam President. Mrs Finanzminister! Mr Sozialminister! High house! But I would like to welcome someone special: Phil, who sits on the visitor gallery and has a special function. He's a civil servant and he's really doing great work for the country. I've talked to him, and he says he's gaining very valuable experiences for his life. I believe that civil service should be maintained as a well-functioning system, because it is unclear how a paid voluntary social year should be financed at all. [[Congratulation with ÖVP and FPÖ]] Voluntary and paid, this is a contradiction. Ladies and gentlemen! The employment of disabled people is an important concern, because work not only means financial security, but also integration, social contacts and also that one has a job. It is therefore very important to take action. The labour market data do not look very rosy for people with disabilities. 39 000 are reported unemployed. That is 15 percent of all unemployed people and by 3,000 more in October than in the previous year. As the alarm bells shriek, you have to do something – and there the state is also required. That is why I very much welcome the fact that despite budget consolidation in this area, over €180 million will be allocated in the next budget for employment measures, for wage subsidies, for job adaptations, for support assistance such as personal assistance in the workplace, for youth coaching and so on. That's important. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] A year ago, at this point in the budget negotiations, I criticized the fact that disabled people are simply sent to retirement instead of getting a job. It's supposed to change. I am very pleased that the disability pension is being re-regulated to put rehabilitation before retirement. But, Mr Social Minister, I would also like to pay attention to the fact that the skills of people with disabilities are actually seen and that they are tried to be accommodated on the labour market, and that not just a money shift is taking place. [[President Neugebauer shall take over the chairmanship.]] There is a special decision by the Federal Government, which I would like to highlight, namely: In the Federal Service, the stopover does not apply to disabled people. I think that's important. This is a special incentive for ministries to employ people with disabilities. Ministers should see the talents in this context and give them equivalent opportunities. Finally, I would like to encourage something that would be important, namely that the federal government and the countries not only check whether the recruitment obligation is fulfilled or not. This is also important, but it would be very important to consider how the distribution of functions is. Is there a blind head of unit? Is there a deaf department head? How many section heads are sitting in the wheelchair? – It would be important for me to note this, so that there will be more career opportunities for disabled people as a result. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e24746	Next speaker: Mrs Schenk. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e24768	Mr President. Minister! Mrs. Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! It's true that you don't always have to criticize everything, but it's also right that you have to put some things back in the right light, especially when the Minister sees too much through the pink glasses or the SPÖ fraction sees some things too much through the pink glasses. Ladies and gentlemen! The minimum wage has already been addressed several times today, a legal minimum wage. The Minister has also expressed his views on this and is opposed to such a minimum wage. [[In the direction of the government bank:]] I would like to inform you of a quote from Vorarlberger AK President Hubert Hämmerle. It calls for a legal regulation of the minimum wage. “It is a shame if people in a rich country like Austria have to work for less than EUR 1300 per month for less than gross. No family can be fed today.” [[BZÖ and Abg. Amon.]] Hammerle also says: “An hourly wage of eight euros or more. 1300 Euro monthly wage is absolutely necessary and reasonable. This legal minimum wage should also always be increased to the same extent as the minimum guarantee’ – Well, that's where we're different – ‘or the compensatory allowance rate in pension insurance.’ Mr President, may I ask you to comment on this quote by the President-in-Office of the Council. The fact is that many Austrians, especially many women, no longer have their incomes. And an important point, a policy focus must be to create jobs on the one hand and on the other to ensure that people earn enough, because how else can they afford to live. I should like to remind you that surveys have recently shown that a weekly purchase has become expensive by 4.3 percent, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Heating oil: The heating season is under way. The heating oil price is increased by 11.6 percent. So: How to afford that? This is really what many Austrians are asking themselves, and the risk of poverty is continuing. As regards the precarious conditions for women working in poorly paid occupations, in social professions, in the care sector: In this context, Mrs. Schatz, as she said, has missed measures and called for measures to improve quality, not quantity, but quality of jobs. I would have liked you to know, since the Minister Heinisch-Hosek, the Minister for Women, is always referring to you, because she is very closely working with you, which is also good and right, but there are still no solutions regarding the upgrading of social professions, how one can perhaps make these professions more attractive to men. It is also about the fact that these professions are being paid better so that they no longer belong to the precarious, poorly paid professions. [[I should like to congratulate Mr Amon and Mr Kopf on his report.]] I would also like to say a few words about the remarks made by Mrs Csörgits, who called the objectives of the budget very ambitious. As ambitious, I cannot call it a target for the unemployment rate to be 6.5 percent in 2013 if it was 6.3 percent in 2011. If you're a target worse than what you already have, you can't call it ambitious. This applies equally to the employment rate of women. It is expected to increase to 61.5 percent by 2013 and was 61.8% in 2011. This is a contradiction in itself, as I mean, and I cannot conform to you if you call these goals ambitious. This is still an area which is very important to me, but which is also very important for Austria and for the coming years and will become increasingly important, namely the care sector. Care must be durable, quality and safe. That's probably where we all agree. It is true that God is grateful, has already given some improvements and changes in the care sector, yet much remains in the arrogance and the care is not enough, not funded in the long term, but only until the next financial compensation negotiations, and then we have the chaos again. There are more and more caregivers in need of care, more and more are being cared for at home, 80 percent of this work is doing women. There the cat somehow bites in the tail, and a solution has to be found. To the care area: Minister! In 2011, there were 66 600 new applications, 46 000 were approved, but 20 600 were rejected. In the last budget consultations, when it came to strengthening the access criteria of Stages 1 and 2, they spoke of no one meeting that would not be saved in the care sector. What about these 20 600 people now? These are the victims of the aggravation of the access criteria of care levels 1 and 2. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] There have also been 84 400 requests for increase. 56 000 were assessed positively, 28 400 were rejected. So the same thing in green here, too. In the case of the new proposals, we have 20 600 rejected, and 28 400 have been rejected in the case of applications for an increase. In the field of care, we have also submitted a number of proposals, a comprehensive approach. Some applications concern, for example, the promotion of professional change in the care and care sector. Hiezu have also signaled your consent or said that you want to do something in this direction too. It's not happening until now. It is also open to parents who do not live in a shared household with the child. The care days are to be granted per child and also for the parent who does not live in the common household with the child, because probably the child's well-being in The focus is and it is still the best care for a child when it is cared for by a parent. So there's a lot to do. I'd say, Let's do it!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e24874	Next speaker: Mr Keck. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e24895	Mr President. Minister! Today, a lot has already been said about pensions and, in particular, about invalidity pensions. I think there should be some clarification, ladies and gentlemen. Women with invalidity pensions live seven years shorter than women who do not have an invalidity pension. For men it's even worse, there's a difference of ten years. That is, men who have invalidity pensions die ten years earlier than men who do not have invalidity pensions. And although these people are retired earlier, the average pension period is two years less than those who do not have an invalidity pension, and the amount of the pension, ladies and gentlemen, is also an insanity. Your average is not even €957 a month. Nevertheless, invalidity pensioners are constantly placed at the pranger. They are often put to work as inconsistencies and as a tachinian, ladies and gentlemen. Even though these people are sick people who have been investigated by official doctors or experts, so-called experts do not hesitate to use disability pensioners for their propaganda. Especially at the age of retirement, we experience that apples and pears are mixed. With the invalidity pensions, ladies and gentlemen, the retirement age is, of course, lower, but if you take out the invalidity pensioners, you can find that the retirement age for men is already 62,7 years and the retirement age for women is 59,4 years. Also in the 2013 budget, pensions are a huge item. Invalidity pensions not only contribute to this, but also include costs in the budget item. There are also costs in budget items emergency aid because there are many people who are too sick for work, but too healthy for the pension. There are experts, ladies and gentlemen, who find that people must not carry more than 1.5 kg, that they must not sit for more than 10 minutes, but must not stand for more than 10 minutes and must not be in a bent position. Nevertheless, they should be able to be mediated on the labour market. These persons are no longer receiving a job, ladies and gentlemen, but these persons are also not granted a pension and are therefore taken up with the sickness allowance and emergency aid. Although the impact will only be noted in the 2014 budget year, we note that the reform of disability pension, as proposed by our Minister of Social Affairs, is a hit. I know that, in the case of invalidity pensions, ladies and gentlemen, there are the most few cases of abuse, and I know that it would be preferable for all those who have the disability pension that they would not be ill, but that they could continue to work in the professional life rather than receive a pension of not even € 1,000. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Retrainings are important for these people, measures for reintegration and pilot projects. The preliminary work is already under way. Since autumn, the AMS has been creating perspectives throughout Austria to bring people back to the labour market. Starting in 2013, the second labour market will be further expanded for the gradual reintegration of people with health impairments. Funding such as combination wages and integration aid will also continue to be forced, and this will bring savings of up to € 700 million from 2014 alone in the field of PVA. The 2013 budget puts the first rails in place. This is a very, very good budget, which is an approach for people who are sick, an approach to reintegrating these people again. This budget, which is very social and balanced, can only be approved.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e24953	Next speaker: Mrs Kaufmann-Bruckberger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e24974	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! In the field of social security institutions, there are a lot of figures, data and facts, and I would like to highlight them a little closer today. Total revenue of €50.47 billion is compared with total expenditure of €50.22 billion. Compared to the previous year, this is an increase of 2.8 percent in revenue, an increase of 3.1 percent in expenditure. If you compare the Austrian total budget with that, the figures are pretty much the same, and yes, you could almost say that it is actually the budget of a state in the state. The social security funds, and this is very amazing, are primarily spent by contributions from the insured, and that is at least proud € 40.04 billion. However, the contributions of the insured persons in the pension insurance institution are not sufficient to cover the total expenditure. Therefore, a failure of the federal government is also necessary. Other funds also flow to the social security institutions as the cost of the insured and benefit payments. These revenues amounted to €3.89 billion. Of the total expenditure, of the €50.22 billion, 62.9% is for pension and pension benefits. That's by 3.3 percent more or in figures very much 1 billion € more expenditure. The expenses for hospitals amounted to €5.36 billion, and that is also 2.2 percent more. In the area of statutory health insurance, we could find that 8.4 million people, at least 99.9 percent, were protected by these. This value can only be achieved because there is the possibility of multiplicity insurance. Multi-insurance will also have to be discussed more closely, but also the number of months of contributions, because in the worst case you can only be sick for 12 months. But you have to pay 14 contributions a year. In pension insurance, revenues amounted to €34.07 billion, and expenditure amounted to €34.068 billion, i.e. €2 million could be booked on the Haben page. It must also be noted quite clearly that at least 77.3 percent of the revenue comes from the contributions of the insured. That's at least €26.33 billion, and the rest is then shot by the federal government. But you also have to ask yourself: What do these numbers tell us? – These figures tell us that we have a pension system that is just ahead of the collapse, just before the collapse. More and more pensioners are facing fewer and fewer contributors, and pension experts have been alarming for years. However, the warning words of the experts will have been asleep for years, and nothing will be done about it. If we want to maintain our pension system, we must take immediate action. Now the last figures: The figures have already been taken from a request and have also been confirmed. They could also be taken from the media. We have 161 branches, 7 719 people in the administrative sector alone, 109 service weights, travel costs of approximately € 4.9 million, chief days for a total of € 11 million. These are costs of € 700 million for the management of social security funds alone. It would be time to launch structural reforms. It is no longer time-consuming to have 22 social insurance companies to afford them. We don't need 19 different health insurances, we don't need four accident insurances and we don't need five pension insurances either. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Hagen.]] The political group's protocol is also terrifying. The aim is to further dampen costs, but only through savings from the insured and the service providers, as stated in this report. Then I'll have to ask you: Where do you want to save there? For the sick, for those people who pay the contributions, who need medical help. There you can only say more: Good night, Austria!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e25035	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Aubauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e25057	Mr President. Estimated Minister of State! Your colleague! We say: Good morning, Austria! It is going upward, and we are taking offensive measures. [[Congratulations and bravado with the ÖVP.]] I also have the budget estimate with me, but don't worry, I won't read any figures! Ladies and gentlemen! Imagine living in Spain. There is no job for every fourth person unemployed. If he's around 60, like me, and maybe even a woman, then she doesn't have a chance at all, then the prospects are gloomy. Thank God we don't live in Spain! We live in Austria, and Austria is a European champion in employment. We can be proud of that. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] However, there are also concerns on the labour market in Austria. These are especially the older ones. A shared picture, the Minister of State addressed it: On the one hand, there have never been as many employees as at present. That's most gratifying! Four-fifths of all additional jobs went to the 50plus generation. Great! That's a success. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] On the other hand, however, unemployment among older people has also increased. However, we do not just watch, there are already improvements in the pipeline, there are already a number of measures. And what does this whole thing have to do with the budget proposal? Here it is black on white – you say we do nothing –: The objective is to increase the employment rate of older people and to prevent early retirement from working life. So it's clear to everyone who doesn't want to believe it. [[Abg. Kickl: And what does he have to achieve that he is successful? 0.1 percent!]] What does that mean? – More older people should be able to work healthyly. And that can work, it needs appropriate jobs, it needs health care. But that's not future music, that's already beginning, here's already taking action. Ladies and gentlemen, the money should not fail. In the next year, there will be significantly higher funds available for the field of work than this year. For example, the “fit2work” project. Those who no longer feel able to meet the work requirements can be advised, free of charge, totally unbureaucratic. The result can then be changes at work, other screens, other working hours, other shift times. Initial projects of “fit2work” have brought promising success: significantly fewer diseases. These are good prospects. The reform of disability pension will also open up new opportunities. So please don't be afraid! Here new opportunities come to us. Among 50-year-olds, if they have health problems, they should no longer be sent to retirement, but they should be restored to their health, they should be able to work again. [[Abg. Listen: Super!]] That's positive, that's great. Thank you, my colleague. Activate instead of retiring, that is the right recipe, Austria will be fit for an ageing society. But this is not just a party political task, it is a social task. I cordially invite you to do so, together we can shape it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e25133	Next speaker: Mrs Dr Belakovich-Jenewein. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e25155	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, Before I made my real speech, I should like to speak to Mr Ollinger. Unfortunately, he's not here now, but maybe you're so nice and directing it to him. I am really sorry that Mr Oellinger is here and that only one of our Members is associated with some social fraud or with black workers. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That's what I'm rejecting! That's a special class's monsterity! And that of the Greens, where we know exactly, there are mandates living in a social apartment with a salary of over €8,000! That's a green party program. These are your colleagues. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And then also have a diplomat passport! I mean, sitting with the diplomat passport in the community building is already a particularly watchful attitude when you stand here and defamate others. - So much to the greens. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Now to you, Minister of State, and to the Social Budget: Mr. Federal Minister, you once again presented yourself here today and told us that everything is really great anyway, we are world champions. Unfortunately, this does not benefit people outside, but we know your beautiful dyes now really enough. And you, when my colleague, Kickl, faced you with the statement of Mr Muchich, waved a little with your hand and shook your head, according to the motto: It's all not true! Mr Federal Minister, you know very well, there are a lot of social democrats who are really criticizing your policy, and I am going to read something to you now. You always say you should read the whole article; I've read it through, I'll get you the best quotes out here. This is the SPÖ Klubobmann from Burgenlander Landtag, who has nothing to do with the FPÖ. Do you know how he stands for your policy? Do you know what he said to me? - Well, then tell me! [[Federal Minister Hundstorfer: Yes!]] Then why don't you keep this from us? - Because it's unnecessary. [[Federal Minister Hundstorfer: Because it is unnecessary!]] I do not think it is unnecessary because this is still someone who is obviously at the heart of the time who is still talking to people, unlike you! You only sit more in your ministry, in your castle, completely removed, just ride the van from one date to another. Maybe you should talk to your officials from the countries a little bit more. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Wenninger: Such a primitive thing!]] The SPÖ Klubobmann from Burgenland says: “Employees” from the opening, namely the opening of the east, “have not benefited. On the contrary: Since the opening of the labour market, a little more than “one year ago, there has been a displacement by Eastern European workers”, explains SP-Klubobmann Christian Illedits. () According to the figures presented by the SPÖ, employment in the country grew in the first quarter of 2012, but at the expense of the domestics. From January to March there were a total of 2,476 more employees in the country – a plus of 2,625 foreigners, “a minus of 149” domestics. [[Abg. Kickl: The miracle of employment!]] Mr. Federal Minister, these are your people who criticize this! He's not even guessed he's from the FPÖ. And that, Minister of State, is your numbers. [[The speaker shall keep a document of the AMS up to date.]] As you say, in the first year of liberalisation, 75 501 people were killed, but of these there were 30. In March, only more than half of the labour market activity was active. Where was the rest? In the minimum guarantee? Why write Don't you think about it? This is your missing policy, Minister of State! And you sit here and pretend to be God-given it all as if you could do nothing about it! I don't think it's possible to do something about it. Since you have already brought this “great” wage dumping law into your mouth several times today: Mr Federal Minister, we did not agree with this for good reason, and it tells your own people that this is a network through which everything is going through. People are hired for 20 hours and then have to work 60 hours. That's how this law is eroded! - And what are you doing? They say it's all in the best order, it's all great in this republic. But today you mentioned something that I found very interesting. You said that teaching has an image problem, and we all need to work together to eliminate this image problem. – You may even be right, Minister of State. It is already true that apprentices in SPÖ are actually a stepchild. These are your social democrats who don't care about the apprentices at all. When it comes to increasing tuition fees or changing here, the SPÖ-Grands are immediately on the road. But if it was about apprentices getting a little better or that apprentices might not have to pay any more for their company exam, I've never heard of you before. And I've never heard of the union before. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It is really not to be seen that, after completion of their teaching, apprentices must bear all the costs themselves when they take part in the corporate exam. That's not to be seen. This is an education, these are young people who have to pay for it themselves. In this context, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Abg. Oillinger: Chamber of Commerce!]] [[Quoted print version removed]] If you call in again “the Chamber of Commerce”: Yes, please, please, explain to me: Why do you always want to take over everything?- Oh, my God! Where is the social conscience, the social responsibility for those in training? Are not apprentices in education? [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Oellinger: Say that to the Chamber of Commerce!]] Why are apprentices constantly worse off than students, permanently worse than students? That is absolutely incomprehensible! [[Abg. Oellinger: Say that to the Chamber of Commerce!]] And then all of you make up and say, oh, there's such a bad image with the apprentices. – Of course, this image is bad for apprentices, is not a question, is quite clear. It is also the Federal Minister who, in fact, does not make sure the image gets better, because his hobby is still the over-company training facilities. And then he always makes himself up and says yes, but after a year they should all leave anyway, that's not my topic anyway, and we don't need them all, we could put a lot more in there, and actually they have to learn there anyway that they come on time, that they get up in the early morning and that they become reliable. Mr Federal Minister, this is too late for the rulers to learn! Go to your colleague, Genossin Schmied, and tell her that this belongs to the school system that the apprentices with 15, when they come to the labour market, have already learned discipline, reliability, regularity. That would be an approach, Mr Federal Minister, instead of permanently pulverizing money into any other artistic projects.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e25334	The motion for a resolution tabled is being debated. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e25391	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Lap. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e25415	Mr President. Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! The colleague has forgotten today when he prescribed the speeches for the FPÖ colleagues that on the one hand he packs figures, data, facts into the speeches and on the other hand he tries to leave the sham. [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: That's great! What do you think?- Oh, my God!]] You have forgotten, Mr Kickl and colleagues from FPÖ, that FPÖ has warned that we are being flooded by a million foreigners from EU countries – 70 000 have come. So it's a false claim; it's now clear. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] You have forgotten, ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ – because now Mrs. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein has taken care of the apprentices here, where I think it would be almost worthy of her going to the Burgtheater –: [[Call at the SPÖ:Tschuner stage!]] When the FPÖ was in the government, the dismissal protection for the apprentices was abolished. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] And this is even a groundless community, that you are here now and that Minister Hundstorfer, who is with the apprentices every day, is at work, is on the move, is accusing that he has no idea! [[Oh-Rufe at the FPÖ]] That's really terrible! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Just to remember: When the FPÖ had government responsibility, there was the highest unemployment. At that time there were economically good times. Accident pensions have been taxed, and ambulance charges have been introduced. [[Abg. Haubner: Was taken back!]] – So that you have the comparison and the facts and facts are on the table. Social expenditure is an important location factor in a state. The measures in the area of pensions and unemployment are extremely important in order to promote security, the sense of life and, above all, cohesion in a society. Representatives from other countries come to visit us, look at over-company measures, look at our education measures to learn from us and to introduce these good, effective measures in their countries. As far as the budget sector is concerned, it is true that the opposition should have put a lot of things to sleep, which we have introduced in recent years. The care fund has been introduced and there is an increase in the budget. A nursing service database is established, i.e. all Austrians from Lake Constance to Lake Neusiedler get the same benefits in the case of care needs. Quality assurance will be introduced in domestic care, and the next financial compensation will provide the basis for a good response to the challenges ahead in the demographic field and for Austria to be seen as a model example here. Dear colleague Dr. Huainigg, one thing I would like to say to you, because you meant to be a voluntary social year, did not go voluntarily and paid: That's wrong! Voluntary means that access is voluntary for men and women, and voluntaryly means that it applies instead of a duty, instead of a military service. Don't join the ÖVP demagogy!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e25498	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Jarmer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e25519	Mr President. Mr. Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen, Estimated audience! Today I hear again and again, money's bubbling. – Where does the money go for disabled people? Where?, I ask you. Maybe someone can answer me. To what you said last time, that I'm a little impatient: I don't think so! I am not impatient, I am interested in supporting people with disabilities and their families. It's a very clear concern. The National Action Plan: Dear Mrs. Königsberger-Ludwig! I've looked through this: a lot of documents. Where are the exact numbers, where are the exact posts? The answers to parliamentary questions are not always very accurate either. The Ministry of Health really described this, the Ministry of Science wrote only a few lines. Mr. Minister, you are responsible for this! And I'm annoyed: Where's the transparency? Where are the numbers? Where can we find that? Where are measures that show that the NAP is actually being implemented, where we see that something has been achieved? I'll ask you again. To the detailed plan. The issue of work is clear. Unfortunately, the companies still see disabled people as unpleasant things, they want to buy themselves free, they pay the compensation tax in order not to have to hire disabled people. Two points: In the future, I think it must be that public offices are no longer allowed to buy themselves free and have a certain form of employment to consider. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It doesn't matter that the companies put them on a small minimum post, feed them off with a bit of money, push them in their hands and say: Do what!, but we need adequate places for people with disabilities so that they have the same opportunities as not disabled people to make a career. Secondly, Balanced tax. We from the Greens have very clear demands here. You know the price: 200 to 300 €, and already is a company outside. No, 200, 300 € are too little, an average content for a normal person should be the price of a tax. And with that, you have more money to finance measures for disabled people to a greater extent. People with disabilities have a right to meaningful work. Next point: Measures on employment, such as the objective of reducing the unemployment rate; in women it is 1.9, in men 0.5. These are modest demands. One point that surprises me very much is that measures and successes of measures are described as conciliation procedures and agreements resulting from them. What exactly is this supposed to be for a measure, an agreement by means of a conciliation procedure? I don't understand! It would be quite clear to me that you look at yourself: Where are disabled people reduced, where do they have barriers?, and not in what form they are fed down. For example, disabled people do not enter a business through a step. Then they report to a job. This is then invited to the business owner or the owner. Then both sit at a table together and negotiate a little, it is looked at: What does one person want? What does the other one want? The disabled person says I'm not coming into the business. The businessman says it's not my problem. All right, then. I would like to apologize, says the disabled person. Then a report is written, one apologizes – and that was it, that is the agreement! That cannot be a measure! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] That's not enough, an agreement is not a measure. What we expect for disabled people is that the barriers will be removed, that the stage will be removed and a ramp built. If someone wants to go into business, he or she should be able to get in. What if the next person comes with a stroller and doesn't get back into the store? Persons with prams cannot apply for conciliation. It is necessary that the barriers be removed, not only for people with disabilities, but for everyone! Accessibility affects all of us! Think of the future! What we must not forget: How many people do this concern in Austria? We're not moving here in a small area. Half of the Austrians are affected by chronic illness, by other forms of disability. And not to mention: the families of people with disabilities, that is a large number of people. What I expect from you, Mr Minister, is that you sit together with all the other ministers and get through here. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The main problem is that the barriers exist in the heads. There's something we have to do, that's quite clear, that's of course a big thing – and your job. And I expect you to make some progress. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e25618	Next speaker: Mr Donabauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e25639	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Citizens on TVs! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Parliament is the place where we do not overly compliment ourselves, nor is it the place where we are just giving off good news, but it is very likely that criticism and criticism will have to be practised here. But one thing is clear: We all bear responsibility; the government, in particular, but also the opposition. It must be a certain mood if you criticize everything and everyone – and I listen with interest to you, I know about your basic attitude. [[Call to the Greens: From whom?]] I've been in politics for a long time and I know how you sometimes think. We have already formed a government with you, where everything has not been done. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] And that is why I believe that in this debate we should really be limited to the basics. In principle, we can say: We live in a country where we are all well – perhaps not all of us, perhaps there is a group waiting for our support. Especially these people – wherever they are at home, whatever they do – we have to turn to them. [[Abg. Kickl: What do you mean, “Wherever they are at home ”?]] Despite all the social orientation, one important thing is: Self-reliance is not only required, but also needs to be required. Even a good social system – and we have no doubt, not necessarily fault-free – needs to be questioned every day on the basis of correctness, performance, care-relatedness, administrativeity – we must not overadvertise ourselves here, perhaps in Austria we tend to do so. Sustainable financing in particular is an important criterion. When I think about all this, I think of John F. Kennedy, who once said: You must not demand everything from your state, but you must also be willing to give something to your state. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I am thinking not only of military duty and civil service, but in principle of responsibility in the profession and responsibility in life. The State, the policy has to create the prerequisite for maximum employment. Of course, we need open markets. It makes no sense if we are constantly putting the European Union as the ghost we are all afraid of. We have actually benefited from this integration. Of course, some things have to be corrected too, no question. It is necessary to create the conditions for maintaining employment, for training and for setting up businesses, so that we can get the current employment situation. This budget refers very clearly to many of these new and important criteria by means of smart, well thought-out financial planning. I think there have been some approaches that are very important, such as youth employment. It is true, as the Minister said today, that the training of young people is a fundamental concern for us, and the apprenticeship and the apprentice must regain their social status. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl]] That's all our task, because we're all in demand wherever we sit, whoever we are. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] I also think that the question of education and training, especially for the 50-year-olds, is an important question, because only a comprehensive, good employment will safeguard all of us social benefits – if you want – I can also say: the social system. In the last Council of Ministers presentation, the Federal Minister was able to report that we have 3.5 million – 3 479 000 exactly – employed and an unemployment rate of 4.4 percent. That's too high for those who touch it; there we have to see how we correct it, that's our all task, that's right. However, it must also be said that self-employed people are also an important area for this country. If you look at the statistics, you can read that we currently have 315,000 self-employed and 105 000 main-employed farmers. They, too, help to cope with all of this, and we must therefore also turn to them in an appropriate way. We need to see that equal production conditions are created, that we do not demand more from people than is reasonable to them. These are tasks for all of us, the tasks of this Parliament. Of course, there are important topics in the pension area, in the care sector. I think a lot has been done. Any new performance – as it is apostrophized or called – must be critically questioned and also checked for its financial viability; this is also one of our tasks. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] Last: Those who want to preserve good must change a lot. – We are there, we can do it!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e25721	Next speaker: Mrs Haubner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e25742	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Those who want to preserve good must change a lot. – I can get a lot of money out of this, but I do not have any substantial reforms in this budget, which one could really have started with; I will then look at an example in particular. The overall social budget is a reflection of how to deal with social responsibility in a country with social security. If you look at the budget items, you can say for the first time: A great deal of money is being spent on the labour market, in particular training, in the field of care, in the field of the disabled. But sums alone, ladies and gentlemen, are certainly too little, but one has to look at how targetingly the measures are put in place and how fair and fair they are distributed. Mrs Lapp said that the opposition parties would have slept a little. So for my person, I think I can say I didn't sleep. The fact is: It is positive that there has been an administrative simplification in access to the care money, because the federal government and the country have been summarized here. I also find the implementation of the voluntary social year at last positive – I am not talking about the future model if there is a professional army. However, we did not sleep that access to the care allowance was made more difficult that the care allowance was not valorised. We haven't slept that there's no maintenance database yet that's been promised for a long time. And we didn't sleep that although there is the care fund, it's limited in time. – These are the facts, and they should be addressed. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] If I say, fairly and fairly distributed, then I would like to talk about budget expenditure in the area of pension systems. A quarter of total budget expenditure, i.e. € 18 billion, is spent on pensions. € 9 billion alone for pensions at Post, ÖBB, public service, for several hundred thousand people, and € 9 billion for ASVG-pensionists, which are at least 2.3 million pensioners. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! That is not true, and that shows how much the need for reform is. In her budget speech, Ms Fekter said that pensions would be sustainable – not adding – and that she would make major reforms. Only: If I look at the big reforms now, I have to say honestly that we have a slightly different access. The major reforms can not only be that one tries to gradually adapt the actual retirement age to the legal one that has existed for decades. It will not be enough for access to early pensions to be made more difficult. It will not be enough for access to the hacker scheme to be made more difficult. Nor will it be enough for the disability pension to be reformed. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] You recognize the problem, Mr Federal Minister, and with you the entire government, but you are very, very hesitant, according to the motto: an emergency operation, so that the system does not tip as a whole – and that will not be enough in the future. In connection with pensions, I also constantly miss the fact that you stand up vehemently against special rights and privileges. We still have special rights and privileges for local and regional staff. We still have special rights and privileges in the social security sector, at the National Bank. We still have the so-called old political pensions. That's what I'm asking myself: Where is the solidarity contribution of those who receive these old high political pensions? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] Every small pensioner is now required to make a solidarity contribution, they are told: You don't get 2.8, but only 1.8 percent, because you also have to make your solidarity contribution! - You should do it properly once. [[Call the FPÖ: What does the Stadler say about it?]] Where is the conversion of the pension system? This has long been our proposal on the part of the BZÖ: We need a pension system for everyone. We need a pension account; a pension account that is transparent, where you see what you have paid, and where these deposits are also paid accordingly. We need a flexible retirement age, regardless of the age limit, because the years in which you paid are crucial. It is not decisive whether you are 59,5, 61.5, 65 or 58 years old. Then, at last, the discussion about the age of women's pensions would stop, which is not being conducted so intensively anymore, but would be necessary. Let's talk about it! Is it still fair today for women to retire later when child training and care periods are taken into account accordingly? – In the system, as we suggest from the BZÖ, it would be unnecessary because the age basically does not matter anymore. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Of course, it is important in our pension system that social benefits such as child rearing, care, presence service and also assistance for more socially weak people continue to be increased by the state in order to support it. Mr Federal Minister, you have stated it as one of your objectives to reduce the federal contributions to pensions. I believe that what you are proposing will not work in the medium term and in the long term, but it will not work if every year a fig raises how much pension adjustment the pensioners get. We have a legal indicative value, and I also ask for it in the end, because the pensioners, the older generation, have shown much solidarity over the last few years, and solidarity is not available among the politicians who are loosely raised; it is not available if we provide billions to save banks, and it is not available when the Party funding is increased. Therefore: Pensioners, older people who have worked for a lifetime who have paid in this system, cannot be kept from the necessary inflation adjustment again and again. I know, there are now 2,8 percent for the compensation beneficiaries – that's right and good – but an average pensioner gets €1,200 pension, and he's already falling through the rust again, he doesn't get it. Whoever has to live from €1200 – and that's about 41 percent of the elderly – knows what that means. I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I believe it is important that the consideration of inflation-related losses should not stop with the compensation beneficiaries, but that this should be taken into account in all ASVG-pensions, as there are at least 1.2 million pensions affected. Energy costs, housing costs, high health expenditure are not only burdening people with compensation allowances, but also the members of small and medium-sized pensions. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Federal Minister! The budget available today is the last budget before the 2013 election. I doubt that many reforms will take place – with regard to what I have taken up here – but if the next government also wants to deal responsibly with the next generations and want to act responsibly for the next generations, it will not pass a major pension reform.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e25828	The motion for a resolution is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e25891	Next speaker: Mr Schopf. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e25912	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I have a question to Mr Belakovich-Jenewein. I'd be interested in why you're doing this: They make themselves here and say that poor apprentices in Austria will not replace the exam tax, that the required time will not be provided either. – Why do it? You do? You, as Members of Parliament, must know that there has been a legal regime for decades. [[Calls and calls between FPÖ and SPÖ.]] You, as Members of Parliament, will be so far as to read things in advance. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein.]] We have a very clear system in the vocational training law, Mrs Colleague. [[call to the FPÖ.]] I would be really interested if you would like to assure the people of perhaps 200 000 people who are watching at the moment, ladies and gentlemen. Why Make You really do? They make themselves here and say that the apprentices in Austria are a particularly poor group, the trade unions, the Federal Minister, no one does anything for them. [[Call the FPÖ: Vote eh!]] [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: That's right!]] Ladies and gentlemen. Since 1978, we have a regulation in the Vocational Training Act, quite specifically in Sections 9 and 21, where it is clear that the exam fees must be paid by the service provider and the necessary leisure time must be provided with the payment of the remuneration and all the materials required in this regard must also be paid by the service provider. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[call to the FPÖ.]] Mrs Colleague, I would like you to come here and tell me why you are doing this. [[Mr Kickl and Mr Belakovich-Jenewein.]] [[Calls at the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I would particularly like to congratulate our Federal Minister, but also the entire economy and all the workers on the excellent economic data, especially in the field of unemployment. We're European champions! [[Abg. Kickl: No, you are EU masters, not European champions! That's something else!]] We are also at the forefront of youth unemployment, ladies and gentlemen. We know that – but not, as some believe, because of the lack of government, but there are indeed European developments, there are economic developments – we unfortunately also in Austria have to note that unemployment will rise to some 277,000 colleagues, but I think that the right measures have already been prepared to address this problem. When I look above all at the resources in the field of active labour market policy, I think, Minister, that the budget has been properly drawn up. We have seen, above all in the years when we were particularly affected by the crisis – 2008, 2009 – in which a lot of companies in Austria have agreed with the social partners in the field of short-time work, that this was an essential instrument for enhancing the crisis. I say here at this point: Thank you, Mr Minister, because trade unions have done great things together with the government. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It is therefore important to me to mention that we have this instrument again in the future. However, it is also important to me to say that in future we will also have more financial opportunities for educational careers. I think it is important that we specifically promote those young people who, due to difficult situations, have not succeeded in completing a school or training. Now, because of these measures, there is this possibility. The last point: If you look at the objectives of action, this is very, very interesting. I think that we have the task of supporting the entire government together, and above all the relevant ministers, in achieving improvements in the working and working capacity of older workers – 50 plus. But we also need to do everything we can to reduce unemployment. And we are called on to work together on this. - Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e26021	Next speaker: Mrs Fürntrath-Moretti. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e26042	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Austria's good at it. We have really mastered well in recent years since the start of the crisis, we really see this at all the key figures when we compare it with other European countries, and we will therefore continue this successful path. Our top goals are: Consolidating the federal budget, boosting growth and employment and structural reforms. Ladies and gentlemen! Deficiencies and debt are not a stable foundation for our state. Therefore, this budget is also a mixture of savings with an eye-catching and targeted offensive measures. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Why Save With Eye-Earth? – Save with an eye, because we also want to give our children and grandchildren opportunities for the future. Offensive measures, such as the Uni-billions or the Founder's Fund, serve to ensure our competitiveness. One of these important measures is, for example, the increase in weekly money for entrepreneurs, farmers and all self-employed women. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] Austria is the leader in labour market data in Europe. It has already been said several times today: We are number 1 in Europe among all EU-27 countries. We currently have an unemployment rate of 4.5 percent, and that is really a very, very great result. In 2011, only more than 50,000 new jobs were created by Austrian entrepreneurs, of which 43 000 were jobs for people over 50. And we are also in the forefront of youth employment. The economic downturn is there, undisputed, yet our economy continues to grow by 0.8 percent – a great achievement of our skilled people in Austria! For this great performance a thank you to all entrepreneurs with their employees, who ensure the economic strength of our country every day by their use. Our economy is very small-structured, just over 99 percent of our companies are small and medium-sized enterprises, and they have more than 2.3 million people in employment. In order not to endanger this economic power and this high level of employment, there must be no tax increases, no new taxes and no new taxes. Because only a healthy economy can finance and ensure our social system. I would like to say a few short words on the need-oriented minimum guarantee. In principle, minimum security is good for combating poverty, but we have two thirds of the minimum pensioners in Vienna alone, and every fifth minimum pensioner still has no job at all after nine months. Now I'm wondering, Does the controls of the AMS Wien and the city of Vienna work so badly – or do they not work at all? Ladies and gentlemen! If working people abuse our social system, it is grossly negligent from my point of view, it is unsocial, and it is not fair. Mr. Minister, stop that!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e26101	Next speaker: Mr Neubauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e26122	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Yes, my previous speaker said it: Austria's good at it. I'd say, Austria is not in bad shape. But in order to remain the same, an opposition party such as the FPÖ needs to be constantly addressing the existing shortcomings in this system and to show you that you are also returning to another way, especially since 78 percent of Austrians are already saying that they are not expecting anything from this Federal Government for the next year. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] So we have to be an opposition party to do so. ensure that this standstill, which exists in many areas, does not really lead to a complete paralysis. Mrs Csörgits, I guess You really are, but if you come out here with every speech you start and say if the FPÖ criticises shortcomings – anyway, I have noted: it was 1 800 letters and e-mails that I have received in the last three months because of the pension debate – then be the hetze, then it's just wrong. It is about the concerned people of this country who are turning to us, and we have the obligation to represent these interests here! – This is reality. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It is therefore not a question of hetze, but of the actual perception of serious concerns. As Mr Lugar, whom I have not seen since his “NEWS” interview yesterday – he has been lost for two days – has meant that these pensions are ten years still sedentary, but afterwards these pensions could no longer be paid out in Austria, I have to say: I strongly reject such a division! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This is an uncertainty for the elderly in our country that they have not deserved. One thing is clear: It is also important to ensure that pensions are safeguarded in the light of demographic developments, which are currently not favourable, only by ensuring jobs in Austria for the future. That's what all the experts who really have something to do with the pension system are saying. The fact that Vienna as the Federal Republic of Germany has been in the leading position in all of these labour market figures in recent months – currently with 11.5 percent unemployment and a permanent increase of 25 percent each month – and that Vienna is still sparse in harmonizing pensions is the problem that is moving all over Austria. As the Federal Government finally has to pull the lines – even with a red national captain – because it cannot be that all the federal states suffer from it, just because Vienna is impenetrable in fulfilling its obligations. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This budget is not a statement for the youth and not a positive statement for the seniors. We do not need any envy debates and no other solutions according to the kind of ones you have widened here with a more state. What we need is more freedom. What we need is more responsibility. And what we need is a way to a trust society that needs to grow up again. But this can only be done by taking a path where freedom and responsibility are equally revived. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This repetitious debate on pensions, which is going on in a really disgusting way, should therefore be stopped each year, because it is contrary to precisely these confidence-building measures. And since the pensioners in your savings package – I would say, tax package – have contributed €7 billion to renovating this budget, as a liberal, we are quite determined that these pensioners in this savings package with their pensions – at a cost of more than 4 percent, at energy prices that have doubled, at housing prices that have increased massively – will be asked to cash again. You won't find a partner in us! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And if the debates are running in such a way that you say you don't want to pay contributions accounts – yes, you have a partner in us. If you follow this debate, you simply have to find out: Those who want a completed budget from us will be able to increase the number of officials in Brussels to 6.6%, our politicians will be looking for an increase of 1.8%. While pensioners sometimes no longer know how to get over the winter with their sparse pension. I therefore put the following motion for a resolution: The National Council wants to decide: "The Federal Government, in particular the Federal Minister for Labour, Social Affairs and Consumer Protection, is invited to forward to the National Council a government proposal which includes a pension adjustment in the amount of the pensioner price index. In the 2013 budget, provision should be made for this measure." [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In conclusion, Mr Federal Minister, I should like to say that the Federal Government's policy has never been what appears to be the case this time. So far, it has always been the case that the Pension Commission has announced the guideline, which is 1.8 percent this year, and the Federal Government has subsequently agreed to an appointment with the representatives of the Pension Council. – Until today, when we are talking about pensions in the Republic of Austria, an appointment has not even been agreed with the representatives of the Council of Seniors. This is a scandal, and you should be really ashamed of it! It shows the importance you actually attach to pensioners in the Republic of Austria, namely none.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e26248	The motion for a resolution tabled is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e26300	Next speaker: Mr Muchitsch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e26321	Thank you very much, Mr President. Thank you very much, Mr Sozialminister! Ladies and gentlemen! Before I have to express my admiration to the Minister of Social Affairs, because what he has been listening to here since 9 am has been due to some false figures, facts, arguments, and yet he is sitting there so quietly – that is admirable, Minister of Social Affairs! – I will come to this, Mr. Möchtegern-Society Minister. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] That everyone here in this area in social policy would do anything different or change something priority is also aware. But in social policy with its broad spectrum, which means a great responsibility, of course, something always needs to be done – and it is important to do what is necessary to carry out evaluations, which are also in the interests of people. If here the FPÖ Central Secretary, Herbert Kickl, says that he would turn a lot around in social policy if he could, then he would be advised: [[Abg. Kickl: “Central” is with you!]] It has exactly your party from 2000 to 2006 had this opportunity to turn around, and you turned around, that's completely right. [[Abg. Kickl: We're gonna get another one!]] You have approved a record of new employment relationships, from abroad, with hidden seasonals and practices. [[Abg. Kickl: (wise towards ÖVP) Not us – there!]] [[Abg. Kickl: Not us! - You know better!]] You have shortened pensions when you made the Minister of Social Affairs. [[Abg. Kickl: You don't need to talk so stupid!]] You have shortened pensions by increasing early pensions and extending the calculation period. [[Abg. Kickl: Go, stop!]] You have tightened the unemployment benefit requirements and reduced unemployment benefit, and you have created a heavy-worker pension for the people who work hard, which nobody creates. [[Abg. Kickl: I don't know where you're looking! Everything's wrong!]] [[Abg. Kickl: It's all wrong! Everything's wrong!]] You did that! So you changed your social policy and made it bad. The fact is that, as far as this exchange of workers is concerned,: It is beautiful, because as often as today my name has never liked this House. And fact is also: I don't want to talk about anything, but I don't want to talk bad either, not in the past or in the future. We have never concealed that with freedom of employment from 1st century onwards. May 2011 new workers will come to our country. We never hid that! And we've always said: This will also be feasible if economic growth is true. We did not say at a Linz tent festival as your party leader did, 200 000 Poles will flood our country. [[Abg. Kickl: It won't take long anyway!]] We didn't say that. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Kickl: It won't take long!]] And we have always said quite clearly, when economic growth is true, it is feasible – and we have done it. Mr. Kickl, we've done it. – The fact that economic growth has now fallen accordingly is, of course, a problem. [[Abg. Kickl: Well, how's it going?]] It would be much better for all here in this area to take social policy seriously and say: Social policy is that those people who work hard are not punished with high discounts in the pension, but rewarded. I would be right if those people who would like to have a job, even if they are already older, would be supported accordingly, even if the economy that companies would not punish, but would promote it and employ older workers accordingly. In fact, this would be social policy that we need. And the social policy, as it has been made in Austria in recent years by this Federal Government under the responsibility of our Minister of Social Affairs Rudi Hundstorfer, is real and honest social policy! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e26552	Next speaker: Mrs Windbüchler-Sushill. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e26573	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Since I remember, the Greens have clearly demanded – for youth policy reasons, for peace policy reasons, but above all for labour market and social policy reasons – to restructure civil service in such a way that it is based on good legal, independent Legs are placed and existentially rewarded – and away from civil service also the abolition of military duty. I am convinced that a successor, the restructuring of civil service, does not pose any problems at all, does not cause any problems at all, and that the development of the social and health system is also necessary to ensure such important foreign services, commemoration, peace and social services. And I am convinced that we Greens are 100 percent behind these clear demands – more than the Minister of Social Affairs probably, and more than the entire social democracy in Austria. It is not a question of making the dedicated work of civil servants worse, not at all, but of putting the health and social system on its own in the future, and it is about justice. This is actually the task of social policy and also of a social minister. The current system is based exclusively on compulsion, is based exclusively on youth and is based exclusively on military duty. And the system is based on the hope that every year, for reasons of conscience, enough defensive young men choose not to provide the service on the weapon, but in the social, health or also in the ecological field. Imagine a whole generation of young men suddenly saying: We're doing the service to the gun, we're all going to the federal army together. – There would be no civil servants! There would be no one who would provide the service to the general public in the current civil service system. And perhaps the Minister of the Social Affairs could put himself on the head, but also the Minister of the Interior, there would be no civilians, because there could be no allocations. Perhaps this would also be a dream model, a scenario which the FPÖ would certainly welcome, because even men in uniforms who receive training on the weapon are something that reflects the concept of freedom of the FPÖ. I don't want to. I want a social system, which is put on good feet, away from military service and away from civil service. [[Abg. Kickl: the Green One that every soldier is a murderer! That was your diction, too!]] That my grandmother is well cared for once she needs it, ladies and gentlemen, that is, by well-paid caregivers, that is what I hope for from the social system, but not only hope, but that is what I actually require. And I also want my daughter to be promoted and cared for by well-paid and well-trained educators. [[Abg. Hornek: Then you will also have to pay well!]] And I actually see the opportunity for this in the popular survey, which took place on 20 July. January is taking place. And the chance of a new civil service regime can be realized as a result of the abolition of military service. New rules are then clear: existential remuneration, at least one year, full-time employment, equal access for women and men – the current system does not include the expertise and also the importance of the female population – from 18 years to at least the pension. This means that the social system is not only parked on the backs of young people, but actually involves the whole society and actually means solidarity. This social year can be seen as a re-entry, especially for women, it can be seen as training, or simply as a time off. And, most importantly, it also needs these incentive systems, so that people can make this voluntary social year at all. It needs an incentive system in the sense of accountability in a training of what one has learned this year, of much informal education, of group dynamics et cetera. The definition of all these points, which should be taken into account, needs to be established. Today, Mr Minister, it has at least been announced, you want to announce and present details about the social year. I have been personally with your employees, and there have already been many constructive discussions, how such a year can actually be implemented together. I welcome it in fact and still and hope that the important foreign services, such as the memorial service, will remain secure and secure, including from your side, that a clear yes will come to the memorial services from your side, that environmental protection organisations will not be left to the left, but that they will actually be included and that the incentive systems, such as the accountability of ECTS points, will be implemented. I hope so, and I would like you to continue the discussions, because I am convinced that a new social system needs to be put on broad feet to make it work.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e26623	President. — The debate is closed. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e26647	Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to give answers to a few things that correspond to reality. If it is claimed here that in Vienna unemployment explodes, if it is claimed here, in Vienna everything goes down the stream, then I have to say: Take note of the nominal numbers! Then you'll see: The increase in the number of employees is higher than the increase in unemployment. - Point one. [[Abg. Kickl: That's a little bit a bad story!]] [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: McJobs! That's a bad story!]] Point two: No, it's not – look, Mrs. Belakovich-Jenewein, we had around 7 300 more employees in Vienna in October and “only” – under quotation marks – around 3 800 more unemployed. [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: And how many were in training!Unknown term type: "%s".?]] [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: 5 635 trainings!]] These are simply the naked figures, and Vienna has an increase in unemployment in the middle of all the Austrian Länder. [[Abg. Riepl: She just doesn't understand!]] For the training courses: Why are we doing so many trainings? – Because we have the problem of people living here who simply don’t have a compulsory education degree that doesn’t have a degree. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Because we just want to give people a chance, because their alternative is opportunitylessness. As in the wage and social dumping law: You criticize, you do not agree! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] Where do you have answers? – You have no answer for these people! You're not this social party. We are this social government. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] This is just as it is to be made here and say: We prevent the disabled sportsmen from getting a promotion! That's how you ask yourself! If you inquired, you would know very well that a change in funding has been agreed with the Handicraft Association – basic funding plus project funding. This has been decided by agreement. Finally, more money comes out than today. – That’s how you finally deal with the matter and don’t always create air bubbles! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Kickl: Why do you always defend the wrong?]] I don't defend the injustice at all! For example, I defend that top disabled athletes have now finally been included in the sports aid and finally receive an individual promotion, as have all other athletes. I defend that! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I defend that my place of business for the Disabled Sports Association pays more than ever before. I would like to defend this, Mr Deputies. – Please inquire before and talk afterwards! [[New congratulations to the SPÖ as well as to representatives of the ÖVP.]] In response to those who make themselves here and say that we would take away money from the disabled: Yeah, we changed the NoVA. Yeah, but why did we change them? – 5,000 people have received NOVA, this benefit, and now 30 000 people are free. If people were worth something to you, you would have agreed to this arrangement. We have thought that instead of the 5 000 who can do that well, we would rather have 30 000 more to do so here. That is to say, this is a plus of 25,000 people who can benefit from this new allowance. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] In response to those who come here and say the care money, the system breaks together – this also applies to a few others –: Point one: We have more care providers than ever before. Point two: There have always been rejections, ladies and gentlemen. There have been rejections in this system since it was introduced because it is so anchored in the system. It must be that way, because it can't get anyone who points out automatically care level 7. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenecker: Yes logical!]] [[Abg. Kickl: This is in biology!]] Let's be happy that it is. There are and have always been rejections. Next point – ladies and gentlemen Hofer is not here –: It is not 1.2 billion that the cities, countries and communities spend, but it is 1.6 billion. Accordingly, as the Austrian Federal Government, we have responded. We have a care fund installed. [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: This is a dangerous threat!]] – Look, Mrs Belakovich-Jenewein, the dangerous threat you are, because you have no answer! We have an answer. We have the right answer, because we are able to catch up on the increase in social assistance. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Dr. Muted]] [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: Great answer!]] I repeat: This will enable us to catch up on the increase in social assistance! Why have we chosen this way in the case of social assistance? – 41 percent of care providers buy performance. I emphasize: 41 percent! The rest does not buy any performance, he does it himself or with relatives or black, no matter what. Again: 41 percent buy power. And these 41 percent who buy benefits are a real challenge for the individual federal states, cities and communities. This care fund, which is now paid in stages, is intended to reduce this increase. It is this 150, next year 200, and, and – every year by 50 more to intercept this increase. Why did we choose 2016 as a intermediate stage? – Because all those involved at the time knew that we had new negotiations for a financial compensation between them, and because we wanted to put this into this financial balance for the future. It is perfectly clear that this system will continue. It is perfectly clear that we will continue to ensure care. That's perfectly logical! We are also making the intermediate stage, and I am going to make public the report we are preparing with our working group before Christmas, where there are a lot of people working on it and working it out, just as it was the decision of the National Council, which, of course, I am referring to. Of course, it is also quite clear that we will continue to ensure that there are people in this system who work. Among other things, last week we decided, in addition to what we are already doing for unemployed people – 4 500 people per year – also the expert scholarship. I would like to add two more things to the labour market: Since it was also said here, I'm just taking care of the OCTAs. – I also ask you to inquire. All Austrian teaching contracts currently in circulation are 7 percent of apprentices in OCTAs and the rest are in establishments. I think this makes it clear where the heavy weight lies. Name: 93 percent of Austrian apprentices are trained in businesses. That's good, it's supposed to be so, and it's supposed to stay that way. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] The OCTA is and remains a so-called "additional instrument" that can be driven up if necessary. If we don't need it, the better. If it's said here today that the whole pension system is at the top of the chicken, and all of this goes down the stream, I'm a little surprised. I don't know why you don't want to know what you decide here in the house, even if you're against it. The full implementation of the pension account has been decided here in this House a few months ago. We have decided everything in terms of corridor board, job protection and so on. All of this has been decided. That is why I do not know why one does not want to take note of this and argues here with totally unsustainable facts. In the same way, I would like to ask the ladies and gentlemen, whether from the former BZÖ or now from the depositary, who always demand the merger of social security funds: [[Abg. Hagen: I’m not a “delegator”!]] Remember that you automatically afford it for six facilities, because these are the six operating telephones, where the service providers, who are always the service provider, take over a massive part of the administrative costs and the insured are not burdened with them. I don't know if that's what you're interested in. I think it's something completely different, and that's the important thing. It says: It doesn't count! [[Abg. Hagen: It only takes place when you put them together!]] This is a problem of mathematics: It doesn't count, because otherwise we would have done it all for a long time. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Are you a mathematician?]] – Mr Westenthaler, I am as many a mathematician as you are. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: I never claimed to be a mathematician, but you say that!]] – Well, at least you learned a bit of something, I think. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: I have at least an HTL training!]] If you take it seriously: In the background there is an overall contract which applies to all of these, and in fact this general contract is very, very much in charge. It is really about this overall contract, that is the red thread that is going through all this. This general contract includes all these occupational health telephones and the local health telephones. So, of course, it sounds good when you say: We put it all together, but you will, if you eventually bring it together, what I don't think, continue to have regional offices. And the mass of employees in the local health phone are not administrative employees, but are employees in the immediate medical service. These are ladies and gentlemen who on the one hand have an education in medicine, on the other hand, such in physical medicine, dentistry and so on, in all that belongs to it. This is the mass of those who work at the local health phone. There are also the outdoors that are played with it. And that's the reason! I would like to say a few words about the pension system. . I am not a defender of the old politicians, so that we do not misunderstand, but if we are already debating, I ask everyone who takes this issue to heart to say that the old politicians are paying 15 percent pension insurance contributions. [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: Your poor!]] This is a contribution that otherwise no group will pay in that country. That's okay, but you're supposed to say it objectively. [[Abg. Brosz: How high is the cover contribution?]] Look, it's a run-out model. There's no one left who doesn't. It's a run-out model. [[Abg. Brosz: Let's go!]] We have such a thing as contract fidelity. Do we have anything similar in our legal order? [[Abg. Brosz: How high is the cover contribution?]] The pension contribution can certainly be increased again sometime, which is not the subject. But the fact is: From the principle we have something similar to the fidelity of the contract. Finally, what was claimed in connection with Burgenland. [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: Ah so!]] – Yes, Madam Member, the article you have read is true. You probably also know at what time it was written – a few weeks before the municipal council election. [[Abg. Kickl: Ah so, the socialists lie before the election?- Oh, my God!]] Meanwhile, I was in Burgenland and have celebrated together with the entire state government of Burgenland. There are 101,000 people employed there, and these 101,000 workers in Burgenland are a dream number. All the members of the government wanted to achieve this. To the BMS I only have a small message: You know, ladies and gentlemen, that we have looked very closely at the situation with the BMS stakeholders, and we can say: Not Vienna is the point of attraction for BMS stakeholders, because it is interesting in the observation period – that was the year 2011 and the first quarter of 2012 – 7.4 percent of Vienna's BMS references moved to Lower Austria and only 3 percent of Lower Austrian BMS references to Vienna. This should give us a little to think about, because it's always argued that the BMS would have blackmail. There is no blackmail, but the BMS is a springboard that you know very well, and this springboard helps to get people back into employment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e27048	Next speaker: Mr Höfinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e27069	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister – again today in full swing! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! - Of course! – Yes, the latte is high, we have already noticed this in this debate today. [[Call: But that was evil]] [[Abg. Amon: That was nice!]] But in international comparison we have excellent data: High employment, and we thank God for the low numbers of unemployment, including youth unemployment. But, of course, the challenges have increased. Whoever can have a high social structure knows that in these economically turbulent times he has to work even more hard to keep this level, and there is also a need to develop the structures for the future needs of people. Especially the key area of social affairs is crucial to the current situation, but it is also important for the further development of this country, also for social peace and for social prosperity. And with the anyway second largest package in the federal budget, this is impressively documented for us. In addition to the other areas which have already been addressed today, it is particularly worth mentioning that the care sector has just been referred back to by the Federal Minister. Then: The care fund continues to exist, it has been extended so to speak, and it has been increased by €50 million for 2013. And the 24-hour care will be an elementary building block in the next few years. And there has also been an increase agreed. Now on the topic of pensions – incredibly important for all those who are already in existing pensions, but also for those who want to retire in the future. This is where we need to secure the system. And here it is very important, or one of the central questions, that we finally move from the actual to the statutory retirement age. Active labour market policy is also a particularly important issue. Then: Over the next few months, there will be a renewed tension on the labour market. That is why we need measures to keep people in employment and bring people back into employment. It is therefore important to offer training and to move forward with integration measures. At this point, I should like to thank you very much for all those who make contributions from their work so that this social system can be financed. The self-employed, the unself-employed, but also the farmers: They all make a huge contribution. I think it must be worth thanking these people and getting them in front of the curtain. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mr Federal Minister, now also a word on consumer protection, which is also part of your place of business. [[Abg. Kickl: He won't notice!]] We are living today in a fast-paced time, in a digitalized world that has become more complicated for us, but in which it has become more difficult for some people. And that's where we know: There are danger potentials not only for younger people, but also for older generations in this digital world, in the new media, because there are unfortunately people who want to overdo others. That's where I'd ask you: Let's stay here at the pulse of time! If we accompany these people, we will give them opportunities to find advice and help! Do everything we need to be able to offer these people real help. That would be my wish on this question. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e27154	Next speaker: Mr Themessl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e27176	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Mr. Federal Minister, I am so pleased that you are so emotional. You know, someone who wants to move something needs to show emotions. That's perfectly right. Only: The problem is, you obviously move in the wrong direction, and that with huge steps. [[Cheerfulness at the FPÖ.]] Mr Federal Minister, you said earlier that you had to look at reality. But there are obviously two realities in this House: There is the reality of persons – like you and many of the red half of the empire – who are on the protected This means that there is a different perception of reality from those who are in the economy or on the labour market on a daily basis. In the last few minutes, so many untruths have been expressed here that you simply have to clarify them. Mr Federal Minister, you said you created 10,000 new training places for young people, meaning the ÜLAs. Take one of the following: Aware that dual operational training, in which Austria plays a pioneering role and which is recognized worldwide, cannot take place in ÜLAs. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Dual training is guaranteed in occupational training. But, from year to year, operational training has been permanently reduced since you were in charge of the field of employment in this Federal Government. And now I call you the cost factor: A training place in the ÜLAs costs € 17 319 in the year, and a training place in dual operational training costs € 5 600. That's not even a third of what you spend. Other than: The success rate among the ÜLAs is extremely modest, we know that in the meantime. That is why I wonder why you are holding onto this mistake. They're always saying we're so good, we've all been accommodated by young people. I am telling you that the training places you create in the OCTs serve only to press unemployment statistics on their own, so that we can always compare ourselves with the permanently worse countries and say that we are much better there. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] They should finally compare themselves with the five best countries in Europe. Apart from that, the five best countries in Europe do not have the success euro as a currency, but they are outside the euro area, but they are still much better than we are. But we obviously do not take that as an example. Then I would like to refer to the image of teaching and also to the colleague Lapp, who obviously has false figures in mind here. Who, then, has introduced the apprenticeship announcement? – That was this federal government, with the help of the Greens, who, before the summer break, with the voices of ÖVP, SPÖ and Greens, went through the apprenticeship announcement – against the will of the Chambers of Workers, against the will of the Freeman, too, because we have said that is a mistake. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I quote from a press release by the President of the Chamber of Workers from Vorarlberg, Hämmerle, by the way, a black person who, in a newspaper article of 19.6.2008 – that is, this German government – has been so excited and said the following: Now it's definitely fix: After the announcement of apprenticeships with the votes of ÖVP, SPÖ and Greens in the National Council had been blessed, the Federal Council also gave the green light. – The Vorarlberg Federal Council representative of the ÖVP, a certain Mr. Edgar Mayer, is an employee of the Chamber of Workers, and this is what is added. This is the delight of the whole story: that you do not comply with what you preach, then in this House, but agree. And then I'll tell you something. Who abolished quality assurance? In your apprenticeship promotion model, which is anyway not worth a rap, you had provided €3,000, which after half the apprenticeship, after a year and a half, should be paid to the firms as a small fee if the apprentices make a quality assurance. You are talking about the bad image of teaching and you are removing quality assurance because you do not have the budget resources to provide the companies responsible for providing the apprentices with optimal training for 3 000 € for this quality assurance. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Whatever I don't understand is that it's always you, when you hear the name Egon Blum, that makes hair. Now I'm surprised because the Egon Blum is not a freeman. The liberals are known for having an open ear when they are targeting for good ideas and for good suggestions, no matter what corner they come from in this house. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ideo- In fact, there is absolutely nothing that has been lost in economic policy, Mr Federal Minister. And now I've been telling you the summary since the abolition of the Blum bonus: Since the abolition of the Blum-Bonus, we have lost 10,000 operational apprenticeships. And if you don't believe it, you'll read in the ibw-research letter of October this year, so brand new – that's the Institute for Education Research of the Economy – that says we lost 4,000 operational apprenticeships in 2009/2010 per year. Last year we lost 2,000 more. That is to say, we have lost over 10,000 operational teaching posts since the abolition of the Blum-Bonus. But there's something else to do with that. We have lost 5,000 teaching companies since the abolition of the Blum-Bonus. We had 40 000 firms in Austria, who have trained apprentices, now we have 35 000, which are still falling. So much for your promotion. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You know, you should use your emotions to move in the right direction, but you do it quite consciously and provocatively and only from an ideological point of view in the wrong direction.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e27300	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Maier. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e27321	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Everyone who lives in Austria is a consumer, but many people are affected by various consumer problems. This is why consumer policy and also the Minister of State are concerned with strengthening the legal position of consumers in Austria, but also with ensuring their enforcement. Here we are on a problem, and I would like to allow myself to quote from a letter I recently received from a Vienna lawyer, Dr. Marshal, got it. All of you can remember that we have been discussing and creating clear rules here in the Cold Calling House, namely that contracts that come along this way with lottery companies are absolutely null and void. Although we have this clear rule, there are still such calls, in particular from abroad, and these companies continue to try to cash money in a very strange and dissuasive way. I am allowed to quote from Dr. Marshal's letter the case that a client's account accounts for amounts, although we have a clear legal position and the bank has not carried out a review. – I quote: ‘On 7.12.1995, the so-called ‘entity agreement’ was concluded between the banks’ and the Austrian postal savings bank, which provides that, by means of a collection authorisation procedure, various customers of the Austrian credit institutions are granted the opportunity to withdraw from their account-keeping credit institutions immediately due amounts of invoices that do not require the submission of a document through the account of the ‘payer’.’ High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! This has been practiced by some lotto, competition or competition companies. – I quote: “Although the Preambel procedure is intended primarily to target larger companies, without any doubt, who wish to increase the share of timely payments by means of the expected extension of collection traffic, this procedure is apparently misused, in particular, by competition and lottery companies that contact customers by telephone and then in the course of the telephone call, the account connection and the account number are misused.” High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I simply consider this procedure to be a clean-up, and, I know, the Federal Minister, you are not responsible for it – one has to try to stop it immediately through the judicial department and through the Ministry of Finance. High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! The budget of the Federal Minister for Consumer Affairs is intended to ensure that consumer policy and consumer work can be effectively implemented in Austria. I congratulate the Consumer Information Association, which is doing an excellent job in the process field in particular. The complainant project with the Consumer Information Association is a success project and is planned for 610,592 € in the coming year. I would like to thank the employees of the Association for Consumer Information and the staff in the Ministry for this successful work.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e27377	Next speaker: Mr Doppler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e27398	Mr President. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Work, social and consumer protection are very important materials. In economically difficult times, social security for the population is a very important matter. Around €6.4 billion is planned for the field of employment, and €3.3 million is available for the field of consumer protection in 2013 – this is what Mr Sozialminister told us in the Committee. This is also a very important thing, my dear friends. Ladies and gentlemen, because the population and especially older people belong to protected – protected from curly machinations, protected from dubious shops such as Internet subscriptions, telephone fraud, unscrupulous advertising and so on. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, there are new forms of fraud. With the collection tax, fraud is tried by people to bring in money, in this case 135 €, in case of non-payment pledge. It's a cleaner! The operator of this fraud is Deutsche Inkasso Dienst GmbH. But this company, this company, there isn't at all. And the account where it should be transferred, do you know where that is? – In Bulgaria! It is tried to do criminal business with the honesty and fear of people. Everything needs to be done to prevent such actions, with prevention, with information and in close cooperation with the security authorities, because these criminal activities are becoming more and more and no less. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] Minister, to protect the population from such machinations, we need the necessary personnel. But that is not present at the moment. – Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e27443	Next speaker: Mr Praßl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e27465	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Consumer protection: In essence, the proposed funds are used to promote the Consumer Information Association, the Consumer Council, the Internet and the Debt Advisory Foundation. Total consumer protection expenditure is very good compared to the previous year. This area of consumer protection has been estimated at €3.3 million by the Ministry of Social Affairs for 2013. You can only say one thing: Consumers often cannot defend their concerns and interests well, consumers cannot claim their right in court due to the risk of costs, because in most cases the estimate costs would be too high. Consumers need good support in this imbalance. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Consumers often don't have the time to know exactly whether or not to explore many things about why and why. In my opinion, the Consumer Information Association’s website is a very important programme for the future. You can call them with a mouse click, examine them, search them through and see them through. The Ministry of Social Affairs wants to promote consumer education – yes, thank God. Good information and information in advance are the best protection for consumers. Consumer protection has a high priority in Austria – thank God! – and to continue to work with all our strengths, I believe that Austria is doing very well.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e27502	Next speaker: Mr Spindelberger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e27523	Ladies and gentlemen! In the course of today's budget debate, I too would like to deal with the subject of consumer protection and, in this context, to express my thanks to the Federal Minister, who has ultimately ensured that the budget volume of his department will again amount to €3.3 million in 2013. This is important, because how we can all get rid of the media almost daily, the problems in this area will certainly not get smaller. This is also because there are many slicing market providers who are trying to partially pull consumers over the table with criminal powers. This begins – Mr Doppler has already mentioned it – in advertising trips, in asserting unfair collection costs to – what Mr Maier has also done – illegal telephone advertising, and in part – which has not yet been addressed – to dangerous products that are dangerous to health, which are also on the market in Austria through dark channels. Sad, but true is In this context, the fact that even Austrian commercial giants do not hesitate to make illicit advertising of children. On these few examples alone, we can see how important it is for all of us to maintain well-functioning consumer protection, which is why the funding of the consumer information association, at least €1.6 million, is essential for me. However, what is also foreseen in the budget approach is to promote the umbrella of debt advice. However, I would like to make my personal comment on this because, if I look at the banking landscape in Austria, I think it would be very timely to take it into account for co-financing, because it often bears, not least because of false consultation, a share in the fact that many people in Austria fall into debt traps. Moreover, if I look at the difference between interest rates and interest rates that appear on our current accounts, that is simply scandalous for me. Because if today more than a low interest rate level is still charged over interest rates of more than 13 per cent, that is bound by me. Such a thing should be abolished once and for all! I am not yet talking about the fact that in Austria many people still have to do without an account, because this is for different reasons being refused by the banks. Therefore, we urgently need a legal right to a current account for all. So there is a great deal to be done in consumer protection for all of us, as you can see from my words.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e27575	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Rasinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e27596	Mr President. Mr. Minister! High house! I'm going to give you a lecture, and as a doctor, I'm going to be a little instructive, because that's quite good at the midday hour. I will try to hold a lecture on burn-out in three minutes, because this is a very, very big issue in social policy, it is almost the main cause of the so-called I-Pension today. A fully trained burn-out syndrome is nothing but a severe depression. I had managers with me in the ordination, who said: Doctor, I can't even get up again – that's not imaginary – I don't even look out, I can't sleep anymore. – Of course, the first thing to do is to fix sleep disorder, give antidepressants and then go towards behavioral therapy. I ask immediately, because if someone comes to me with burn-out, it either does not work in the profession or does not work privately or financially – rarely with the health that does not play such a big part – and in one of the three fields I will always find, most unfortunately in all three fields. [[President Dr. Graf takes over the chairmanship.]] I'm telling you what happens many times in the operation. There are hundreds of thousands of causes, but an essential cause is the so-called labour load. With the introduction of the e-mails, the employees tell me: I used to get a letter, I answered it, and I might have had a return response in a week; then I could answer it again. Today it's like this: You get the e-mail, you should answer it immediately, and you get the return answer immediately, why something doesn't happen. – Therefore, the German VW Group has now issued a ban on top managers that no e-mails will be passed from 7 am to 7 pm. Second point: Appreciation. If you say to someone – no matter where in the family or on the farm –: If something doesn't fit you can go! or: Be glad that you have the job!, so if someone receives such a form of appreciation and only feels pressure, so much so: You are more or less patient, no matter what you do!, then you should not be surprised that first of all the employees are going into spiritual emigration, go into fear, but also not over the fact that they are hit by the stomach et cetera. Not for nothing, the Ulcus disease is very closely linked to stress. Take France Telekom, for example. In this there was a series of suicides of employees. You can see, that's often a business condition. This, of course, has a cause, which then somehow has a name in the operating climate and ultimately costs the company a lot of money. Of course, the work-life balance also plays a huge role in how someone behaves at home. If a person still feels stress at home or in the relationship, for example, he has a disabled child at home, then he can no longer bear the burden in the profession. That is why I give three advice. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig.]] I only have three minutes to carry out my textbook. It would take much longer. First: Take time for yourselves! Most politicians or most people do not feel themselves. Secondly, You should not take everything tragically, neither from the partner nor from the boss. You should say in the evening, it wasn't that bad. You're supposed to be at peace with yourself. Thirdly, Relief – not every e-mail is important, not every press release is important. I'll stay there with Andreas Khol, who said the headline is already paper again in the evening. I say it in other words, with that of a business consultant: “If you’re in a hurry, go slowly.” Finally, I would like to put something into the luggage of the Minister. I don't think it's all right for me to experience as a house doctor in Vienna, that after a kidney transplant, patients don't get a rehabilitation just because they're insured. The local health insurance fund says that we simply do not do this – obviously there is an internal instruction there – while pension insurance would approve all of this. I believe that co-insurers should also be treated honestly and politically. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e27669	Next speaker: Mr Preiner. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e27691	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. Minister of Social Affairs and Consumer Protection Hundstorfer is, as we have some times taken his statements from today, with heart and brain on the matter. I didn't know until my previous speaker that he was also responsible for burn-out – perhaps a new field of activity. In Burgenland, we have a high level of self-employed workers with over 101,000 employees this year. I am very grateful to the Minister for Social Affairs and Labour for the addition of € 1 million for further work policy measures in Burgenland in 2013. Ladies and gentlemen, the consumer protection budget will be €3.29 million next year. Today, in the current year 2012, it was about as high. These funds are essentially channelled into the promotion of the Consumer Information Association, the work of the Internet Ombudsman, but are also used for the information initiative and studies in the field of consumer protection. The Internet Ombudsman is the one who has had to deal with more than 4,700 complaints in 2011. These were also documented accordingly and evaluated in terms of content. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to thank all those who work in the consumer protection sector in the Chambers of Workers in Austria for the concerns of consumers. As we have already heard in the Committee on Budgets, the Ministry of Social Affairs is also preparing non-judicial conciliation bodies. This is a very important and important thing for consumers, because it can solve disputes with businesses without creating high process costs for consumers accordingly. Several initiatives are planned for consumer education, such as the expansion of the very informative website www.consumerenfragen.at or the training of multipliers. I can only give Minister Hundstorfer full meaning to the fact that prevention and information are the most effective means against unsavory practices. Only well-informed consumers are critical consumers who do not fall within the scope of unscrupulous practices such as Internet-denomination or classic coffee rides. In this sense, I would like to thank all those involved for their work in the sense of the consumers in Austria and thank you for your attention at once.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e27739	The next speaker was Mr Pack. The speaking time is 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e27760	Mr President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Less debt means more future for all. It is therefore important that the federal budget is further consolidated so that structural reforms are implemented in order to also create the necessary space for growth and employment impulses. I believe that this budget, which we have been discussing since yesterday, shows expenditure discipline and, with at least €6.3 billion, creates appropriate opportunities for offensive action. Austria has managed the crisis well, some of my previous speakers have mentioned. We have come through this crisis better than many other countries in Europe. This shows that politics has set the right course, and above all that our entrepreneurs, of course together with their employees, have contributed to it or have created growth and employment in our country. Just where there is a strong entrepreneurship, where there is a thriving entrepreneurship, there is development taking place. And, of course, there are also the advantages of politics to take action together. Entrepreneurship is essential for employment and prosperity. It is therefore also the basis for stable finances and social balance. Mr. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! They also deserve thanks and recognition for this, and not ridicule and envy – as has been heard in some speeches by the previous speakers. Estimated Minister of State! You should also work as Minister for Labour and Social Affairs and as former President of the ÖGB to ensure that the role of our entrepreneurs, in particular their services, is properly represented. Especially if you look at campaigns recently, for example, the Chamber of Labour or social democracy, I wonder what contributes to strengthening the entrepreneurial spirit in our country. I believe that exactly such measures endanger entrepreneurship. But we need our entrepreneurs very urgently, because only by doing so can we really devote ourselves to labour market policy. They create the conditions for the measures to be taken. For example, if we look at youth unemployment, we have good figures. This, of course, requires that we do not rest on it. There's something you have to do, because one thing is very important: Young people need employment, they need tasks to be able to develop and develop. The “Future Youth!” action is very commendable, good action is being taken there. There is very good progress in the field of dual vocational training. Dual vocational training is a success model. This has now been seen at the EuroSkills apprenticeship European Championships in autumn. I am the firm conviction – that is also seen in the competition outside – that the training of the company is an appropriate measure. That's where we need to move on. We must strive to ensure that entrepreneurs have the right framework conditions, because this is the success model for the future professionals in our country, which the economy urgently needs. Let me briefly say a few sentences on people with disabilities! Some previous speakers have appealed to the economy to give more disabled workers a chance. I can only report that there is willingness on the part of entrepreneurs. I know a lot of companies from my constituency who would like to hire someone not to pay the compensation tax, but they do not find anyone. And instead of helping them, they are judged: We're not responsible for that. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig.]] So we should deal honestly with the subject matter: What does it mean if the institutions responsible for these employees are to some extent removing these workers and thus no longer available to the economy? That is why this discussion should be conducted honestly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e27833	Next speaker: Mr Hell. Speech time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e27856	Thank you very much, Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! As the last speaker on Subgroup 21 Social and Consumer Protection, I can also deal with the issue of consumer protection once again. Each of us is confronted with consumer protection every day, starting from shopping to calling, on the Internet, with service contracts, but also, of course, in the large area of health protection. However, consumer protection costs money, and I therefore welcome the fact that the Federal Minister for Finance, against the background of limited financial resources, has planned €3.3 million. This corresponds to the previous year's budget volume. Consumer protection is also cross-cutting. Other areas are therefore also required to address consumer concerns and to provide assistance and support. Information is a very important concern for consumer protection activities. There are new products every day and there is a lack of consumer information in many areas. Therefore, advisory bodies, the creation of studies and the conduct of investigations are important foundations. Effective targets are also agreed in the budget. In my opinion, one of these objectives is very important. This is about strengthening consumer education. There is still a lot to be done. The Federal Minister has already pointed out in the Committee that there are constant evaluations here. We will certainly continue to pursue these objectives. The area of teaching materials for pupils and young people is also optimized and further developed. My very much appreciated Ladies and gentlemen! Consumer education, prevention and education are important measures for our society and for active consumer protection. In this context, unlike my previous speaker, I should also like to thank the Chamber of Labour for its good work, which it carries out in the interest of its members. Of course, consumer protection is of particular importance here.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e27893	As the last speaker on this block, Mr Hagen is speaking. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e27915	Mr President. Minister! High house! Mr Sozialminister, you asked me to come to the speaker's desk with your speechful First-May speech – I would almost say, and this is quite invigorating – for I have to make a few points. You said that if you put together the 22 social security institutions, you would make a minus in six institutions, because the employer is paying there, the bill would have a minus as a result. But if I subtract six out of 22, then I come to Adam Riese to 16, and these 16 would have savings, quite massive. Let's see: If you save 22 social security presidents, we already have a huge potential, Vice-Presidents detto, van detto, chauffeure detto and special pensions. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] I think there would have been a proper potential for savings, Mr Minister. That would then be expected under the line. So trust it! You'd do something good with that. However, I would like to address two other points which have been raised to me and which are actually very serious. First of all, on the topic of AMS: A personal leasing company has approached me that would have urgently needed people in various industries. You were sent ten people by the AMS. After a week, not even one person was employed there. [[Abg. Shopf: What is paid for?]] [[Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig: What were the conditions?]] That means these ladies and gentlemen didn't get paid so badly, but didn't want to work. That's how it's been: One didn't come at all. The others came in part, presented themselves, but only wanted one stamp so that they could continue to cash unemployment benefits. Then there have been people who have been recruited who have come to work for a day or have not even appeared on the first day. Now you can imagine what this company has had for a joy with these people, because if I promise my client to people who work for him, then they should be there too. This company is not enthusiastic about the AMS and does not want to work with the AMS anymore. The second point is the topic of apprentices, which has already been discussed here. I have a case where a young mother told me that she had asked the AMS to find a place to teach her son. She was told, yes, that's all nice and good, she's supposed to register in the computer and then the son comes on the waiting list, and someday someone will report to her. I think it has failed, she calls at various companies in the area where the son may want to work, but I don't need AMS to do so, I don't need any administration that costs a lot of money. I don't think some rulers really do their homework. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Minister! If you continue to be around the firms that train apprentices, you often hear that the problem is that the young people often can't get German or can't get German. It's in the language, writing. This, of course, makes them difficult to teach in this company. And what's very important – and I'm already criticizing the school system – people aren't reliable. You have to think about whether you are doing everything right here in Austria in the education system if people no longer learn to get to work reliably and rather lie in bed at home instead of going to the teaching company. It's hard to count on these people. I don't think it's the task of the teaching firm to train the children, to teach them how to act in society. I think this should do the school system, and I think it's important that you look at it. Then again we have reasonable teaching establishments, then the teaching companies prefer to train the apprentices again if they can rely on them. Then we have a future for our youth. I mean, that's very important. Mr. Minister, there's a lot to do. Let's get the sleeves up! Together we will do this. We'll pick this up together. I offer you our cooperation.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e27981	President. — The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e28002	I would like to give you a brief answer. I'm really inviting you to look at the world, how it really is. For eight years I was President of one of those health insurance companies you want to put together. I only give you two messages: no compensation for this work, no secretariat, no service car. - Just so you know what you're talking about. We in the KFA Vienna have long decided that all those who sit on the board of the KFA Vienna and have a political mandate – all the political parties of the Vienna council – are sitting in the KFA Vienna – do not get a Gage; only so that you know what you want to save. [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: That's why it's so good!]] Where nothing is, you can't do anything! That's one point. [[Congratulations with SPÖ, ÖVP and Team Stronach.]] Then you should also note that we just have operating phone, where the service provider, the respective one, is paying everything. As a result, the question of sensuality arises. To the AMS I have another message to you. If the case was the same as you tell us here, then this company should report it to the AMS, because you know very well that 95 000 times a year the AMS reference is set. 95,000 times! The AMS reference is set at 11 percent of AMS customers. That's not a problem at all. He who thinks this is happening to him must just report it. That's a procedure, that's an appeal. Everyone is entitled to a proper course of this right. As a result, the company is to report it and the AMS reference is discontinued. Let's not get up there. [[Abg. Kaufmann-Bruckberger: These are not schauermähren!]] This is the same as with the apprentices. You know, I'm saying this quite openly, too. Yeah, we've got deficits. But a group of people I am always trying to take them into the debate, the parents of these young people. I am trying to take these into the debate, too, because everything is going to go to school, and that is not possible again. To deliver everything to the labour market does not work again. There is something similar about what parents call themselves, and as a result, I also ask that the parents' home be involved in the debate, because some of the shortcomings are only to be resolved with the parents' home. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e28056	There are no more words available to me. The discussions on this subject have thus ended. [[13:20:05]] UG 24: Health
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e28077	We will now come to the consultation of Substance 24: Health. Mrs. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein. 6 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e28101	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Firstly, I would like to say one to you, Mr Federal Minister. What I'm afraid of is: There are currently Negotiations for a health reform in the silent chamber, quite secretly, have been closed. There is no information you have given to the opposition. That means, all we know, we only know from the media. Of you there is always only one dementi, that all this will not be so bad at all. But a little bit of experience always goes through. You too know that certain things are going to be tricked again and again. One thing is clear, and you said it yourself: Savings will come in the range of €3.4 billion until 2016. – As far as the naked numbers are concerned. The question is of course: When I save such quantities in the health sector, how can I maintain the performance? – They always ensure that nothing will be changed. But that won't work, Minister of State. What you are planning now, so to speak, to maintain the supply, are the larger supply units, but far away from the hospital operations. Now we all know that the hospital operation is expensive, far more expensive than the established area. But if you're talking about large supply units, that reminds me a little bit of 2008 already. We had this discussion before, when the large supply units were under the name of “care centres” at the time, where some investors would have set up centres and possibly employed doctors at dumping prices. At that time this was dropped due to the statement of the former vice-channer Molterer. Now, however, you are obviously going to resume exactly this failed program. Just try to hide it more beautifully in new words, the doctors leave outside so that no one can see what you really want, but in reality it's just that. I tell you, Minister of State, that will not work well. Because the supply will simply get worse. That's no uncertainty. By the way, I think it's unbearable if you permanently send the ball towards the doctor's chamber and say that the doctors are insecure. – No, Minister of State, you do so through your secret negotiations. It would be your duty and your task to inform the people about what you have in mind, what you are now negotiating, how it should continue. They're not gonna do that. They failed to talk to the opposition. They fail to inform the people, but then wonder that others take over this information, are immediately angry and push the buhmann to another group. That, Minister of State, is unreasonable. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I ask you to: Reasons Once with the people outside or tell us today what you really are planning! So far, we have not even received answers to our questions, not even in the Committee. You sit there, wipe over, say your standardized sentences, and that's it. I say to you: If these large supply units are to come – and there are many, many rumors that have already come out. We'll see it now. There are no more cash-planning points in the settled area, there will be no more next year. But if you save this in the hospital area, you will have to care for people somewhere. So if you really plan the large supply centres, where perhaps a Rewe group or another multinational group will come to hire doctors at dumping prices, I ask myself the question: How Many Doctors Become It's the first time get it? Or do you then import cheap doctors from the Czech Republic or Russia or, in the future, perhaps from China? That can't be the supply! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Oberhauser.]] Our doctors – we already see that today – this is a trend that has been moving for many years now – because our trained young doctors are going abroad. They have no motivation at all to stay here in the country. We're already heading for a medical shortage. What you want to do, however, is to give the doctors even less money so that even more doctors go abroad; and with this, Federal Minister, you risk the care of people permanently! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This inevitably leads to a real two-class medicine, as it has not yet known Austria, where one must go to the private doctor in any care centres of any doctors who are not likely to be particularly motivated, and the other who can afford it. You're responsible for this. At the same time, you say you're doing better now, you're going to control it all out of one hand. Just be careful, Federal Minister, that your hand doesn't get too many fingers, because then the whole system becomes uncontrollable. You should include this in all your considerations. Because one thing is also quite clear: Finally, you are weakening yourself as a minister. They are, in fact, doing away with the area of health in the end. Maybe that won't matter for you personally. But your successor after the next National Council election will no longer have to exist because this Minister of Health will have even less control than you already have. That's the wrong way, Minister of State. I would think that the health system, as we have it now, is well-reformed, but it should not be destroyed.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e28196	As next speaker, Mrs Dr. Oberhauser to speak. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e28217	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Hagen is not in the hall right now, but I assume his colleague Lugar will do it to him. Also from the FPÖ we are constantly being addressed what great resources we will save ourselves when we put together all health insurance companies. These health insurance companies, by the way, are far better off than all private health insurance companies do. I would now like to ask you: What do you think, what an obsessor, in this case the caretaker of the WGKK, one of the largest health insurance companies – what Rudi Hundstorfer got as the chairman of a small health insurance, you already heard – what do you think that the month “abcasht”, as you would call it? I would now be interested in what dimensions you appreciate this. Not €15 000, which Mr Stronach puts into the room. The Obfrau der Wiener Landeskrankenkasse earns €3 809 gross 12 times in the year. And that, nine times saved, is the savings of health insurance when we put them together when you take the big local health phone. We still have two alternates who earn half of them, always gross. So I already look forward to the “great” savings potential that we bring together when we put the health insurance funds together. They suggest to people that more or less million amounts will be collected in health insurance. No, we know that there is an extremely careful handling of the insured's money, and that the question of administrative burden is dealt with first with with with a lid, and second, that cover is very low. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Donabauer.]] On the question of the health of the system, the savings and the costs saved by the Minister: He has already tried to explain this to you in committee. On the one hand, you have to save, on the other hand you have to try to prevent the costs from increasing exponentially. That is, one calculates from a fictitious lid and sees you get below it. That means saving up what is today is zero. On the contrary: Try to dampen the cost increase. If you have read the press releases of the main association today, Mr. Schelling, then you know first of all that the health insurance funds are positive, and second, that the medical fees have increased by 4.4 percent this year. That is, of the big talk, that we save medical services, that we don't pay doctors enough that there is too little, is at least currently nothing to be noticed. – As much to the health of the system, as has been said, always comes from the liberals. On the contrary, Minister Stöger has taken a good step forward with the cash consolidation package. We have also continued to do so in times of crisis. The health insurance companies work well and balance positively. In this sense, I think it is only possible to congratulate the Austrian health system, which is now going with Minister Stöger.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e28268	Next speaker: Mr Grünewald. 10 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e28290	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! It said in the first few days from the Bureau or from the President's side, Mr Prammer: The discussions on the budget are now under way. – So everyone who looks at this will wonder what one understands in discussions. There's nothing going to be discussed here. Here something is noted, euphoric, critical, surprised, annoyed. We should be honest with the choice of words. It is most difficult to use the term “consultation ” here. [[Congratulations with Greens, FPÖ, BZÖ and Team Stronach.]] I don't want to advise you either, but I'll bet you: Austria has a very good health system, but it is not perfect. There are quite discriminatory supply gaps that should not make us proud. Your budget is a small one, and your skills are neither overwhelming if I now express it very diplomatically. So you don't have it easy, I can confirm that. Nevertheless, we should deal with something. They know that the fragmentation of skills is the key to cost and quality of supply. Many patients, especially parents of children, where there are shortages – detectable, also evidenced by numbers – make a routine run between different institutions and land in a labyrinth where the answer comes: It's not a cure, it's not approved. They have said – and I think so – that medical and technical services, especially psychotherapy, but also Logopaedie et cetera, have to be equated with medical services; the parents should complain. But in Austria it is not so easy to complain, it takes a very long time. However, if you have a sick, possibly mentally ill child, you want to have a treatment and not a long-term course of action and waiting periods of up to half a year and above – this is also proven. You know that this is cost-effective, because: If someone is mentally ill and also in school, in the teaching profession, has difficulty in studying, then the diseases tend to chronize, and then the treatment becomes even more expensive. So that would be very useful. There are also gaps, especially in the neuro-rehab, not in the acute, which is excellent in Austria with the stroke unit and skull-brain injuries. But in the subsequent rehabilitations, people are treated expensively – excellently, according to the state of science – and then land somewhere in the desert, where no team is available, so that they learn to speak again, practice walking and so on. The cash registers also cut, that can't have been hidden from you. Children with lack of oxygen at birth are spasticly paralyzed – the cause of this is called cerebral paresis – have contractures, muscle tensions, and they should make physiotherapy at least three times a week. For years, the cash registers have paid only one, a maximum of two, shortening the times. The parents pay the rest or they can't pay it, and the children then have a pointed foot that must be orthopedically operated, contractures, joint damage and so on. So there's a lot to do. We also have – as you know, you are working on it – a lot of data, which, however, are shubby somewhere, data graveyards, but also data waste, because many surveys are not comparable. The Austrian Federal Institute for Health has produced a good brochure, and it does not always look so shiny for Austria. During the five-year lifetime of breast cancer, cervical cancer and intestinal cancer, we are in the back third. Norway and Finland are the top two nations. This also shows that, if they are well-run, not overwhelmingly large units often work better than a moloch from a hospital, where everything is only seen as a number. What irritates me and where you need to be even more careful is surely the desire of many health professionals to establish themselves more and more as a teaching profession, where the health sector then has relatively little access to teaching content and quality control, as I fear. A giant study has once been presented in Alpbach: Health market as an opportunity. There all ÖVPlers rejoiced at how much health costs rise because they deserve so many, so it was very interesting. And then the Chamber of Commerce presents this brochure and calls future health care groups. I told you once, I think. Among other things, there is the profession of the astrologer, and the tongue cleaner after Ayurveda is praised as technical innovation. So that's where the fun stops, this is better for me in the health resort anyway. In part, the health platforms of the countries – and you know that too – are being counter-carriaged by the Austrian Health Structure Plan. The working groups of these health platforms have been created in such a way that they cannot work; for in the established area, the lowered working group, the cash registers have the absolute majority of the votes, in the stationary area the country and the Oh, my God. And in the reform pool area, in the third working group, only 20 percent of the funds available for reforms are collected, and the others are included in the deficit coverage. Something has to happen. You should perhaps control these reform pool projects, propose to evaluate different solutions from different countries, see what the best solution is and then include them in the Austrian structural plan for health. There's a lot to do there. They also have difficulties with the science department. I get it, I got it, too. There is a great legal uncertainty on bioethical issues in Austria, a widespread uninformedness of the population, and unfortunately many Members also have to say. We are talking about PID, pre-implantation diagnostics, we are talking about stem cell research, transplants, clones and so on; but the information that comes from politics is thin and the opportunity to develop, as well. We are now trying to create a survey, or finally to start with it next year. I hope that all parties will be involved, but you should ensure that this Convention of the Council of Europe is finally signed, because then there is much more legal certainty. If you say – and this is a big point in the health system – that you relieve hospitals, but there you strengthen profile formation and the established area, you will notice that the doctors in the settled area will not do this for God’s wages. If you expand the established area – and it needs to be expanded – the training as a practical doctor, as a practical doctor, needs to be extended and improved. Now the practical doctors assign the patients to the specialist. You'll still be assigned, and I think it's good if someone says I don't understand anything about it, or I don't know. It's better for me to tell the patient or the patient to go to the hospital than for him to take anything out of the sleeve and take risks. That is, teaching practices need to be financed. That you can't do this on your own, that's clear to me, but the checkouts should also be interested in a better supply. If you know that checkout doctors do not make up even 40 percent, everything else is election doctors, where patients are asked to check out, then the supply network is not as great as you always claim. In addition, calculations forget to calculate full-time equivalents. If, for family reasons, some doctors or psychologists are working and treating their children for only two days, you can't count it as a full-time equivalent, you come to quite different things. Finally, a little bit of annoyance from the Ministry of Interior. As Minister for the Interior, responsible for Internal Security and Police, Ms Mikl-Leiter has announced here that drug replacement should be covered. Drugs should not be replaced, they should be eliminated, that is, the full abstinence. – I tell you completely ideology-free that 99 percent of all experts say: The full abstinence cannot be reached in the majority of cases. Many therapists are blessed, but at least satisfied, when addicts of five substances come to two or three when they are working and so on. Even if Ms. Mikl-Leiter is not going to get a doctor medicinae universae h.c. – I think she should leave this thing to the health resort and the expert. And something else: That the number of drug deaths caused by the replacement drug Substitol has increased, is scientifically completely unproven, because morphine-sprayed or substitol-swallowed cannot be differentiated. Mrs Mikl-Leiter obviously did not know that.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e28399	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Rasinger. 4 minutes are adjusted as desired. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e28420	Mr President. Mr. Minister! High house! Health policy is mostly confused with cost and power policy in Austria. Of course every tenth euro goes to health care, we also get older, the demands rise, only that is not health policy per se. Health policy needs goals, and if you have no goals, then you are galloping in all directions, just not in the right direction. The approach in the health reform you are now proclaiming would not be so wrong if you were to talk about planning and control from a single source, but if you hear that from your secret papers or secret meetings, which all upset me too! – then you have the feeling that the hand has 24 fingers, and that is a medical miracle. And how I want to plan 24 fingers alone, I look at this as a learned Austrian. I'm not a plastic surgeon, so, I hope maybe you'll reduce your fingers to the normal number of five in one hand. Maybe we'll move on then, because otherwise, if 24 people or groups decide, nothing goes on at all. I would, however, like to turn to the content of a health debate. In the Health Committee, we are constantly discussing things that are not going on because of the fact that funds and so on continue to cross, for example on the topics of Hospice, Child Rehabilitation et cetera. It's already depressing when I had to read two days ago that the number of rehab places for mental health was extended from 700 to 5 500, so after Adam Rieese 4 800 places were set up in five years, and we haven't been able to do it for 20 years – for 20 years! – putting a child-rehab on the legs for 180 cancer-sick children. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and by Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein and Ursula Haubner.]] The government programme includes the upgrading of the family doctor. – This government programme is now four years old, we have new elections in one year. It says literally in: “A family doctor model must be developed”. I tell you, I was the “father” of this idea, because four years ago I felt what is going on abroad – and you just need to look around: In America, house doctor is a no-go; no one wants to become a house doctor. If you ask the young students in Vienna: Do you want to be a family doctor? – No, don’t get into question at all! I do not do the stress with the approval at the regional health fund et cetera. I'm telling you honestly: I'm a house doctor. I'm very, very happy to be a house doctor because I think that's a really touching, great profession, but if I see that I have to fight with the health insurance for half an hour because of pain drugs for cancer patients, then I feel like a full idiot. And let us remember that the Parkpickerl was introduced in Vienna: This means that as a house doctor I don't get a park pickerl or even a discount or anything else. And then the competent councilwoman tells me: Well, then the doctor has to stay in the public – these are special animals – with the doctor's bag and walk with another bag. [[Abg. Mayerhofer: This is crazy!]] [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: Or cycling!]] Who cares about such a thing?- Oh, my God! – 530 000 house visits are made in Vienna, which cannot work! The car belongs to my profession, but that has not been discussed until the SPÖ in Vienna and the Greens, so there is no relief. Since it is not possible in Vienna – I am a house doctor for 30 years – that I can calculate the examination of the lung function – this also means that I can't fulfill a guideline except I find a lung specialist, and 10 percent of patients are lung ill – or that I can calculate an emergency laboratory, that's all genius! And you should not be surprised that 40 percent less fees are not, of course, a great job for the younger ones. I'm a run-out model, but I like it! The Germans say they want to do this up-to-date and their own programmes, as do the English, Norwegians, French – the Swisss even have a popular desire or a popular initiative that deals with the promotion of domestic medicine. All these are not stupid people, but they know that the basic supply ultimately affects everything else. And we really have great doctors in Austria – that's no question. Second topic, dementia – genantly called “annihilation” – which is very unfair –: According to the Allianz study, we now have 130 000 and in 40 years 269,000 affected, i.e. a doubling. The Alzheimer's Papst in Vienna Professor Dal-Bianco says that with seven factors one could reduce this by half: Cholesterol reduction, blood pressure treatment, healthy diet, reduction of overweight, exercise, depression treatment and mental activity. This is also found in the government programme, only your health goals are all that and nothing – by the way, there is nothing in the various secret plans. That means you need concrete goals, because how else do you want to deal with this whole nursing thing in 30, 40 years? With all due regard for many activities, which – like ELGA et cetera – cost us a lot of nerves, I believe that I already have to focus on the fact that various very concrete goals in the government program – such as domestic doctor, such as the National Dementia Programme – are being dealt with with with with with more seriously than you told me at the time, ELGA is a support for the domestic doctors. If you say this to the Austrian domestic doctors, they will jump you to the goggles! And then I have to treat you medically, and I don't want to!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e28476	For an opinion, Mr Alois Stöger... – After Mr Spadiut? [[The President is made aware of the fact that a Member of Parliament is still on the list of speakers.]] Why doesn't he seem to me? - But, okay, I'm capable of learning. Maybe I'm not a run-out model yet. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Plessl.]] The next speaker was Mr Spadiut. 6 minutes speaking time is set. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e28521	Minister! High house! The result of the present health budget is obvious. There are no longer any reforms, nor will any more be implemented. This shows, among other things, a protocol of the political group present in the BZÖ, which meets regularly between the coalition partners with the involvement of the Vienna Health Councillor and the main association. The protocol provides that the costs should be further reduced, but not through savings in the system, but through savings in the insured and in the provision of services. – That is to say, one does not save one with the salaries of the directors, with the administration, with the boss days, no, one saves one from the nurses and nurses, with the cleaning staff, and that meets the patients again in the final effect. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] How critical the situation is, Mr Minister, show you the planned strikes of these professional groups. Once again, we from the BZÖ call for the combination of the 22 social security funds with the use of all savings potential for employees, services and computer systems. The colleague Oberhauser... [[Abg. Dr. Oberhauser: (which first sits on the side of the government bank at a table and then goes to their seat) Here!]] Colleague Oberhauser mentioned saving the opportunities would be null, the director in Vienna earned €3 800 gross a month. Following a request submitted by the BZÖ, other figures are available to the BZÖ, which is the annual administrative effort of more than € 700 million. Of these, however, costs amount to 117 service cars, 175 outpost offices, 17 000 € per day for service trips and 10.8 million € for the bosses per year. Then it must be so that your colleague in Vienna does not deserve anything, but the other 21 have to brag enormously. [[Abg. Dr. Oberhauser: No, that's not true! The service weights are also for visits and so on!]] - That's the cost! And the 10.8 million for the bosses are for the cleaning woman. [[Abg. Dr. Oberhauser: Five paid functions! - Oh, my God!]] – That's not stupidity, it's in the answer to the question. I'll send her to you. The social security funds, these are the contributors who maintain this old-fashioned construction, which is enshrined in the Constitution, and they have the right to give policy the task of reforming this construction. It is unfinanceable, very expensive and laborious. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] 700 million € Administrative costs per year are clearly too much. In effect Objective 1, Mr Minister, you are right to mention the following: “As a result of various competences and finances in the health system, parallel structures, over- and under-services, barriers to interfaces, in-transparent financing flows and thus efficiency losses have arisen.” Minister! To counter this, there is probably only one means, namely the financing of the health system from a single source, which we have called for for for years. However, the previously mentioned working group is afraid that this would dissuade social security funds, rather than wasting the money of the contributors. You, Mr Minister, are only discussing the introduction of a uniform health care law in accordance with the 15a agreement, regardless of the funding. A few words on the last Committee meeting, Minister: At my request, you said why the budget for prevention was reduced by €3.3 million compared to 2011, that you could not understand this. – Mr Minister, it is exactly €3 288 795; read on page 34, Federal Estimate 2013, subheading Health. This saving, however, is against your announcement to give prevention a special role. For years, we have been preaching from the BZÖ how important investments in prevention are that according to the Court of Auditors, € 1 investment in prevention will save € 3 in treatment costs – and then the budget for prevention will be reduced. This is probably due to the fact that your prevention program only talks about guidelines, programs and strategies and that no visible actions are put into the vaccination program except for the very loyal and important inclusion of the meningococcal and pneumococcal vaccination. What, for example, does a national exercise plan help if it is not feasible to allow children in school a daily turn hour? Mr Minister, you probably missed your last chance, perhaps as a Minister of Implementation, and not as Minister of State for the Declaration of Parliament's History.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e28604	Mr Stöger is now definitely speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e28625	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! If we look at the health budget today, it is a pleasure for me to have for the first time a federal budget, where effective targets are in fact in the foreground, so that we can also represent what we want with a budget. We have worked this out very clearly in the design of the budget and made it visible. It is about strengthening a solidary health system that creates a balance between privileged health and disadvantaged health. [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: We did!]] That is the key objective of this budget. [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: Well, didn't we?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Karlsböck.]] We have described five major impact targets, and these impact targets are first and foremost, a quality-proof, comprehensive and easily accessible health model for all people in Austria. – This is what we are doing with this budget. Secondly, we want that there is a differentiated but equal access of the sexes, namely that men and women are taken seriously in their particular nature and that the health system is based on that. [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: Isn't that how it is now? Are they not taken seriously now?]] Thirdly, It is about strengthening the promotion and maintenance of health that chronic diseases are also included in the care. [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: Well, aren't they taken seriously now?]] – This was also clearly written in, and it expresses the content of this budget. Fourth: Health, my veneration Ladies and gentlemen, it is also related to how we can access food. An essential element for healthy living conditions is that people get healthy water that people have good food. It is also our task to ensure that people can take advantage of the freedom that they do not need to worry that if you buy something in Austria, food would be unsafe. [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: Hasn't it been like that so far?]] In Austria we have excellent food safety to maintain and develop further. And fifth, Part of the budget also deals with animal health and animal welfare. [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: Hasn't this yet?]] All these elements are also implemented with this system. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] I, ladies and gentlemen, am concerned that we are developing and expanding the Austrian health system – as good as it is, which is also confirmed by all of us. I remember that it was successful in rehabilitating the cash registers. Mrs Oberhauser reported: Today the main association has announced that a positive result of all the cash offices is achieved, that savings are being made and that in 2012 a positive result of € 106 million is also expected. [[Call the FPÖ: Such a coincidence!]] [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: at the expense of the patients!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Karlsböck]] I have dealt with this and have been committed to enabling group practices and providing forward-looking services in the region. I also thank you for allowing more transparency on Tuesday, more information, more quality for patients and at the same time for improving data protection for people by deciding on the electronic health records. [[Abg. Dr. Karlsböck: Data protection!]] [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: Quality?]] I think this will create further development in the health system. [[Complementary of the Abg. May. Aubauer.]] And because I have been referred to this by a few Members, now to the health reform: So if someone talks about secret negotiations when negotiations are under way with national health experts, with national financial experts, with different health insurance companies? [[Abg. Dr. Karlsböck: No Members!]] This makes it clear that this could never have been a secret negotiation, but that I said loud and clear what the objectives are. [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: And what does Parliament have of it? We weren't involved!]] We have voted in favour of having the following objective: We now have to act to ensure that the cost development in the health system is such that one is able to secure this health system in the long term. [[New call for tender Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! The Austrian Federal Government is the only government in a European country that has clearly and clearly said one thing: We want the health system to develop further that public health expenditure can develop at the level of economic development, and we have geared our plans accordingly. Because I've been addressed to be a minister of announcement: That's not me! I'm just telling you a few things that we've implemented, but they're very important for patients. For example: an e-card for all, for children's vaccinations, spending was increased by 50 percent, the meningococcal and pneumococcal vaccinations were introduced, and I tell you that all children in the kindergarten were insured with accident. And last Friday we agreed at the government's office that a health allowance for New Self-Employees, for one-person companies, will be implemented, and we agreed that we are taking a big, big step in the area of dental health. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: The coalition partner does not complain!]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! People need confidence in the economic crisis, and that is what we are confident of. The people in Austria can trust that they will get help if they need it when they are sick. I should like to thank all those who have contributed to the maintenance of this health system on a daily basis. [[New call for tender Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein]] I thank the nursing staff, I thank the medical-technical services, I thank the medical-technical professionals, I thank all doctors, all doctors for what they do, and all those who develop the Austrian health system. [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: And as a gift there is less money!]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e28881	I call Mr Keck. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e28903	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Stöger has just shown us that he is not a flu mask of buying or ferns-breading Minister of Health, but is a health minister who not only announces but also implements, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Steibl: But this is a deep drawer!]] And this is not easy when you know who its opponents are, because the Austrian Medical Chamber has been showing us how its attitude to responsibility within society, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Most here in the hall will know the posters of the doctor's chamber against the reform of health care; Mr Karlsböck showed one earlier. And to this kind of negative policy there is only one comment from me: What the doctor's chamber is doing with this ad campaign is the cheapest polemic! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! As a works councillor and as a trade union, I have every understanding of criticism and of combat measures that must be justified, but only the tactics of the doctor's chamber can be shaken, because this campaign that the doctor's chamber is doing is insecure. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein]] I can only give Mr. Health Minister Stöger right if he says that he is enough with the doctor's chamber, because these doctors' chamber officials are straining the sick, the elderly and the needy in front of their cars and making them a fist of their negative campaign. If I were to go to the level of these officials, I would have to call them desk culprits, but I'm not, so I'm not saying that either. Ladies and gentlemen! I wonder, Do the officials of the medical board or the Austrian medical profession really believe what they are posterating and what do they spend a lot of money for, for this newspaper inserate? I really talked to local doctors in Linz, and I also talked to hospital doctors in Linz, and I can tell you that even the people who were supposed to represent the President of the Chambers of Wesselberger believe in the propaganda he sells with this advertising campaign, because also these doctors are perfectly clear: Of course, there will continue to be medical practices in the near future, and of course there will be quickly accessible hospitals in the future. It will not be that this will be abolished, and it is not a talk of nationalization or reduction of performance. On the contrary! It was not until the government clause in Laxenburg that an increase in performance was even decided. However, it is also important for doctors and patients to have better planning in the future and better and more efficient use of funds. [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: What's so bad about planning now?]] I am just wondering in the debate on the budget, which is supposed to be so bad if reforms also save money – money that we might urgently need for the Geriatry, for example. In this sense, I really have the request to the doctor's chamber: Go back to a level that is just for you, talk normally again! And I hope that after the 21st. November, when this big-new battle measure is over, finally again can discuss and speak normally with the officials of the doctor's chamber.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e28977	Mr Keck, you have tried to change it, but I do not think that has been possible for you. For the fact that you have referred to the medical chamber representatives and officials as “scripers” – you know the predisposition of this term – I give you a call for order. [[Call the SPÖ: He didn't say it!]] – If we go to this level that we explain this, then there will be no more calls of order in the future, if only you put it skillfully. As the next speaker, Mr Ing. Lugar. 8 minutes of speaking time are adjusted as desired. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e29010	Mr President. High house! We are talking about health today. I think it is necessary for us to talk about a few basic things here. People are getting older and older in our beautiful country, which is also good, and since far too few children are born, it will be so in the future that people should stay in working life longer and have to. However, it is necessary that people remain healthy. The health system has not only been in need of reform since yesterday, but for decades. In the last ten years alone, health costs have doubled in our country. The question, therefore, is why no reforms are taking place in this respect, by which we reduce health costs and yet achieve good health care for all. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Schickhofer.]] In the field of prevention, what should be done in Austria is not done, that is to say, more resources spent, no, it is even saved. Prevention measures are more limited to lip confession in your program. Is that really a goal? I understand, of course, that you want to have measures that quickly and quickly bring success. However, the problems we have are long-term problems. That is, if we do a lot wrong with the children today, we have the problems in decades. And with those who have problems today, a lot has already been done wrong in their childhood. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oils.]] We have 600,000 diabetes-2 cases in Austria at the moment – it used to be said “old diabetes” because it only occurred in old people. Today already have 10-, 12-, 15-year-old age diabetes. International studies show that this is mainly due to poor nutrition and obesity. But nothing is done in this area at all. There are a few folder, a few lip confessions, from the homepage you can download something where there is something about healthy nutrition and about that overweight is a big problem, but as regards prevention practically nothing is done. There is a need to take measures in kindergartens, in public schools, where children can still be fed in a healthy way. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Even less is made in the area of mothers and fathers. Many do not know what they do to their children! The parents who put their children in front of the TV with a bag of chips and then are addressed to them – there is a study of whether they believe that it hurts or benefits their child – often do not know what they do to their children. In other words, many children are measured at five, six, seven years of age and then, at six, seven, eight years of age, have the double weight they should have – there is a detailed report on this. But there's not going to be any reversing. This is really a crime! It may already be that the negative consequences do not appear until decades, but do we not want to make forward-looking policies? Are we not expected to anticipate developments and to counter them at an early stage? The number of diabetes cases, which correspond to this development, has exploded, from 300,000 to 600,000 shortly ago. And the forecasts assume that we will have a million diabetes disease in Austria at the latest ten years. And what do we do about it? - Nothing! But these are the cost drivers of the future. A second example: In Austria, we have 300,000 massive alcohol diseases. There are 300 000 people in Austria who are ill with alcohol. Is there any programs for them? Are there any information measures? You could start a program to send alcohol or ex-alcohols to schools to make sure that everything happens. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Schickhofer.]] I've just talked to a maturant and asked him where the matura trip is going. – 99 percent put this on as a soup, i.e., the book a package arrangement, go somewhere and then it is soaked, soaked, soaked. Now I'm asking: Is that what we want? – It is precisely at this age that we lay the foundation for the problems of the future. If 300 000 Austrians are heavily alcoholic, with all the consequences that this will have, and in addition 500 000 are massively threatened, why is there no further information? Another example of prevention: Why don't we make a bonus system for all those who pay attention to their health, who have an appropriate body mass index, who may not be able to use excessive alcohol or cigarette? You could make a bonus program, so that these people pay less social security. That would be a good approach. [[Abg. May. Schickhofer: How do you want to control that?]] In other words, one could offer a certain motivation here and, above all, have the awareness that it doesn't matter whether you hold or not. There are people who can go – that should also be granted to them – but the question is whether society needs to rise accordingly. That's the central question. But if you were to take part in the cost of the one who can go a little bit, that would be a good thing from my point of view. Something else to prevent: The number of hepatitis cases exploded in Austria. Hepatitis B alone has tripled in recent years. Hepatitis B kills 200 people each year in Austria. We have about 1,000 new infections each year with hepatitis A and hepatitis B, and each one of us knows what serious consequences this has. A hepatitis vaccination costs €50, and there are people who can't afford it – three vaccinations are necessary when it comes to the vaccination. That means that this is also a cost factor. And there are people who don't get vaccinated because it's so expensive, and they have the problems, especially society, because there are enormous costs; we don't want to talk about human suffering at all. We should therefore consider whether it would be reasonable to pay the vaccination in order to also let those who cannot afford it otherwise – and there is a very long list. I ask you to think about it, especially as far as hepatitis B is concerned, because hepatitis B – which is known by the least – is a hundred times more contagious than AIDS, and the path of infection is similar. To do something in this area is certainly not a mistake, it would reduce costs and also prevent human suffering. Now I'm already on the diagnosis, that's also a big construction site. There are international studies – unfortunately there are no studies for Austria, but you can do the international comparison – which indicate that 10 percent of the diagnosis is wrong. 10 percent! You have to imagine that! And of course these false diagnostics also lead to wrong treatments. 10 percent, every tenth is affected! You have to think about it. But instead of introducing a quality management – Mr Matznetter, if you're going to make fun of the whole thing here, you're at the wrong event, because if a person goes to the hospital in good faith, can be examined and gets a wrong diagnosis, because he may even be operated on, maybe something is taken out of him – everything has already happened, the Court of Auditors has shown a lot of things – that's tragic! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] Mr. Matznetter! We need quality management in this area as well as a second opinion. In the economy it is common to pick up a second one if you take a legal opinion. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] One could also get a second opinion in the medical field before performing expensive operations to see if the diagnosis is correct. This would not be a problem, which is called quality management; in the economy this is going on and would certainly not be bad even in the medical field. So 10 percent of the diagnosis is wrong, but now we come to treatment. There is an international study that assumes that 4 percent of all treatments lead to treatment errors. There are treatment errors that lead to massive problems, even to death – 30 percent of them due to negligence. Now I ask you why you are so opposed that we introduce quality management. [[Abg. May. Schickhofer: You want the privatisation of the health system according to American model! Then at least it says clearly!]] Yes, we would like to see more competition between hospitals – you have already mentioned this correctly. That is, if someone has to perform a severe heart surgery, for example, due to a secure diagnosis, then he should have the opportunity to choose the hospital. [[Abg. Dr. Oberhauser: He can do that today!]] That would be a good approach. That means that there are also different entrances. [[Abg. Dr. Oberhauser: Who forces you into a hospital?]] Not only in the private sector, but also in the public sector, one should be able to choose the hospital, so to speak, for quality criteria. Then a competition would arise among the hospitals, and this would lead to better treatment results. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Doctors also make mistakes – everyone makes mistakes, even here we make mistakes. [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: Not you!]] – I too make mistakes, of course. It's nice that you make me think I'm not doing anything, but I'm making mistakes, too. And if a doctor makes a mistake, he mustn't be headed straight. That means that we should anonymize it according to the motto, it is not about presenting individual ones, but about making the system better. [[Abg. Dr. Oberhauser: But that's what we do! The error message systems!]] That is why we need quality management and, above all, more competition between hospitals in order to make better provision. [[Subsequent calls to the SPÖ.]] I would really ask you not to intercede so much here. And as far as my speaking time is concerned, you know, I have enough speaking time, and I would really ask you now to let me benefit from it. [[Calls and calls between SPÖ and FPÖ MPs.]] To hospital infections – the topic of health is very comprehensive. I know I'm bored here because you don't want to deal with this in terms of content. They would prefer me to say a few nice words and put me back back, but I will not, because I believe that health care in Austria is a central point, where huge costs in the system are reduced, without actually benefiting the citizen. And that's why I'm talking about it so thoroughly today – you're going to have to keep it, if not, then go to the cafeteria and get something there. [[Abg. Hornek: Is that an invitation?]] – This is an invitation or an invitation, as you want to see. I would now like to continue without major calls, with the topic of hospital infections. We know – this is a very sensitive issue now – that in Austria more people die from hospital infections each year than in road traffic. More than 1,000 people die each year in Austria from hospital infections. And there are studies that you could loosen this number by half if you introduced better quality standards. Of course the money costs, but is it not worth it to us? 500 people! These are almost two plane crashes that we could save each year if we stopped there. It's not much, it's often not missing much, it's often hygiene standards for ventilation systems, for example. We know that in hospitals the ventilation systems are bacterial slugs. There are many points, but I don't want to get bored with them. 500 people every year we can save our lives. We should think about it! [[Call the SPÖ: Do this!]] I still have one point for you – I know you're hardly holding it out – it's about the pharmaceutical industry. We know that the pharmaceutical industry in Austria has great influence on the doctors. There are many pharmaceuticals who require all kinds of programs to motivate the doctor accordingly. – Faith You really think that's a target? Even more so, where a third of all prescribed drugs are not taken at all. A third! A third of the drugs are thrown away in Austria, which is probably what this is all about? – Could this be because some patients have too little confidence in the doctor and instinctively know that they do not need antibiotics and other medicines in the event of a cold. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Schickhofer.]] - That's right. There are, as you say correctly, doctors in Austria who prescribe antibiotics in the event of simple colds, although we all know here in the hall – at least many – that this is not a goal guide. But this also happens in Austria, and we also need to talk about it. I am therefore glad that something positive is also said that we are introducing ELGA, because it would be possible, if you put it well, to see if it really is prescribed, what is displayed. We also need to do something about this. Now I'm coming to the Rein-Raus-Medicine. We have the problem in Austria that if you are not privately insured or a private doctor approves of a cost of 100 to 150 €, at least two or three hours in a waiting room – at Specialists are particularly bad – and then, when you finally come in, you'll be back outside after a few minutes, because the doctor no longer has the time to deal with the patient properly. If you want the doctor to deal with one, you have to go to a private doctor, then you have to pay 100 to 150 €, and then there is a regular consultation, which can sometimes take an hour, where the doctor really asks you: What does it look like – Mr. Rasinger, I found it very good – there is stress, how does the profession look like, how does it look private, how does the diet look, how do habits look? – That would be a holistic approach. We would like that, but it doesn't matter, because if a doctor gets €10.12.15 for a patient, at all the costs he still has, then it just doesn't work! I don't blame the doctors either – we have to think about something. We need to consider whether it makes sense in Austria to have a pure-raw medicine for all those who are insured, where the doctor does not have the opportunity to really deal with the patient in a comprehensive manner. That's the point. That is, we should stop there and allow the doctor to have a proper conversation with the patient, to perceive him holisticly – one wants to be perceived as a patient. The problems are often easy to solve, it is often not so big. Writing pills is not the right approach either. We need a lot of reform in this country. I know I'm not too popular that I'm gonna hit you with my nose now, and I also know that you know a lot of things anyway. It's not that we don't all know where the problems lie. It's about us finally solving them, and I'm inviting them to do that. I invite everyone to work on solutions here. I invite you, Minister, that we really make a proper reform in this country. In this sense, I hope that perhaps at the next budget, perhaps under another Minister of Health, we will have a proper reform and not, as now, simply continue the status quo. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e29252	The next speaker was Mrs Steibl. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e29274	Mr President. Federal Minister of Health! After the lecture by Mr Lugar and the health-damaging speech by Mr Keck, I would simply like to come back to the agenda and say: We have an excellent social and health system. It's supposed to stay the same. But, Minister of State, to rest on an existing system would be the wrong way. Of course, it's a lot to do. I know that, especially in the Objective 3, you have also committed to ensuring the promotion and maintenance of health, taking into account a specific target group, namely the children. And precisely the implementation of the results of the child health strategy, based on the child health dialogue, has top priority for me, but also for all of us and, I am convinced, also for you. In the past, this area of health care has been given too little attention as a whole, and it would now be necessary to establish a master plan for the diverse needs and living worlds of children and young people as well as their families. I would like to say once again what is really unfortunate: In Austria, there are 65 adult rehabilitation facilities and not one for children and adolescents, only three facilities offer children and youth rehabilitation. It is also necessary to create suitable opportunities for the care of psychosomatic and psychological problems. This also brings time, because we also have a family shortage in this area. I also have another request: Get away with all self-preserved children in the hospital! Thank you for taking it over, Minister of State, as part of the ongoing negotiations, to reach an Article-15a agreement with the countries, but please stay on it! Summary: We should look more than ever, health awareness is already beginning in childhood. In young years, the foundation for a healthy life is laid, so child health needs more attention. Mr Federal Minister, we support you there, support this concern! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e29316	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Karlsböck. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e29337	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! After this cooling phase, which has just taken place, I will now not be able to tell you what I intend to say. But I would like to hold on to one thing, Mr Minister: Indifference to the truth stands out for propaganda. If you have previously stood up and set out the benefits of the health reform, this is of course also your task. I'm just telling you because that fits in, you forgot one. That is why I now put forward a motion for a resolution which also refers to the great development of dental care. I submit the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] On the subject of health insurance, because this has already been discussed very often and in detail in the social budget. People want politicians not to know everything better, but to make things better. Mr Minister, perhaps it is true – or Mrs Oberhauser, who is not here now – that the combination of health insurance funds does not bring any savings. Perhaps it's true that a checkout or central administration is cheaper than 21. Perhaps it's true that 21 Director-General offices are cheaper than one. We need to discuss this. I appeal that we at least discuss these things. It is not – and this is a little surprising – in any way in the last few years in a concept that you have presented. That means that we should finally start by also bringing the health insurance scheme into a concept and discussing it. That's not happening, and that's what we want. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And if we're already there: If you are saying that everything is good anyway and why we are excited about what is happening to the doctor's chamber, I would simply like to read out a letter to the reader, which actually puts the state of the current health system to the fore. A doctor writes in a newspaper – he is from Frauenkirchen – about a patient who needs a dental care, for which there is no grant at all in Austria, nor in the future, with the glorious actions you have announced to us here. So she goes to the ombudsman's office and asks what grant for a porcelain crown she could get. You will be answered – the information provided literally –: ‘Vehicles S’ but to neighbouring abroad, come there They are much cheaper and you can submit the invoice with us as well.” That actually says everything about the current health system. Saving is good, of course, Mr. Minister. Saving is good, but priority must be given to the patient! And when we talk about secret negotiations, then, of course, these are secret negotiations now in relation to the health reform. Secret negotiation does not mean that we do not know that negotiations are under way, we just do not know what is being done. A key factor in providing the population, namely the doctors, is outside. The fact that there is an unhappiness in these circles is quite reasonable and of course. That is why I am going to take up a few points here and tell the population what it actually means when what you are planning to do. €3.4 billion will be saved. The overall aim is to link this to economic growth with a maximum increase of 3.6%. It is completely overlooked that people are getting older. It is completely overlooked that medicine is naturally becoming more expensive, because it is also getting better. If we freeze to the present state of affairs, that means, of course, savings according to Adam Rieese, and savings are already there. In Vienna, the cash supply is currently sluggishly down. We all know that. Health insurance offices are no longer occupied. Self retention will not continue to be abolished. Only as a final example of this point: For example, physical medicine simply allows more than six treatments instead of ten. These are things that are real. We can't just talk about this and pretend nothing. There are, of course, also reasonable concepts, even there you could say that we are simply yelling and have no concepts. I have long said that a redistribution of patient flows from the hospital to the established doctors is the right solution. But we also need to create the infrastructure for this. This means that we give doctors more rights. The people who may be watching TV now don't know that at all, but doctors are not allowed to hire doctors. This also prevents them from maintaining a 24-hour service. [[Abg. Fürntrath-Moretti: You can complete!]] You can/can't hire doctors, but you also need your free time on the weekend, because I can't work 100 hours – I have a practice myself – that's just not possible. That means I have to hire doctors. I do not understand why social democracy is against it with its hands and feet. It also has to create a proper medical-gesmbH structure, and many more things. Minister, that's all on the table. But the only thing you're actually doing in your time of government – I can't save you that either – is that you're promoting health insurance. Of course, we now have a positive development of health insurance. We see that as an insured person, I am of course also insured, positive. But the question is already in the room: Why do you pay such attention to the health insurance funds and why do you defend yourself with hands and feet so that these health insurance funds in any form experience a bad position on the current status quo? I'm just thinking about that, you came out of the health insurance. You're no longer a servant, but you're in debt to them. They also operate client policy here. This can now be seen from the recent strike of the opening of the ambulatories. They enable health insurance companies to compete unfairly compared to their competitors, the established doctors. That's not all right. We will discuss this at other levels in the next committee. It is for me a classical incompatibility in truth, your position and your dependence on these health insurances. As a conclusion, you have to say that after four years of activity, your government has led to an uprising among the doctors – there is simply that, we cannot discuss it away. This is not a purely envy discussion, just because they are now being controlled and because they get less money, but they see it as the first and most important partner in the health system, which is going wrong. The doctors do not do that for themselves, but of course they do it for their patients. And that the patients are on their side, one can see that there are now 120 000 or as many as 150 000 signatures – this is also a vote against you, Minister – against this ELGA project. That is, it is a uprising of the doctors, a patient uprising that is going on there, unrest in the system, uproar in the system, and I find that the health system has not deserved it. I can only appeal to you for you to respond that you take your interlocutor seriously that you end the secret negotiations and finally stop this doctor-bashing.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e29400	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e29464	Next speaker: Mrs Csörgits. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e29486	Thank you, Minister of State! Ladies and gentlemen! In the first part of my speech on gender budgeting, I should like to stress positively that one of the goals of your ministry, Mr. Federal Minister, is that there must be an improvement in the health of both sexes, taking into account the gender differences in health care. What can be understood? – One of the measures to be understood is that the objective is to ensure that there is a comprehensive possibility of breast cancer early detection in Austria. That is to say, all women aged between 45 and 70 in Austria are to be provided with this research programme. Why is this so important, ladies and gentlemen? – One must be aware that breast cancer with 28 percent is the most common cancer disease and the most common cause of cancer in women. I think that everything needs to be done to make more women go to an investigation, because the sooner this disease can be diagnosed, the better is also the possibility of healing, and the better the opportunity to get a well-informed therapy. [[Complementary of the Abg. May. Worm.]] In the second part of my speech, I would like to address the issue of need-oriented minimum security, which was already important in the previous chapter in the various discussions. We have achieved that 32 000 people who have taken on needs-oriented minimum security are back into employment. This is a success for me, because These are people who didn't have it easy. They have been away from the work process for a long time and, of course, there is a need for special assistance and measures so that these people can be made fit again in order to be able to participate in the work process. What is important to me, in addition to this fact that these people are getting back into employment, in the context of the need-oriented minimum guarantee, is that, in addition to this poverty reduction, measures have also been taken to ensure that 33,000 people now also have an e-card. In other words, in addition to combating poverty, this is also an important tool for raising the health, health and health of the Austrian population. People now no longer have this discriminatory health certificate that formerly had to show social assistance professionals, but they are in possession of an e-card. And the budget also includes €22 million – a good measure, an anti-poor measure, but also a measure that contributes a lot to the health and health of the Austrian population. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e29540	Next speaker: Mrs Haubner. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e29561	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Unfortunately, I have to repeat what my colleague, our health spokesman Spadiut, has said, namely that the budget available here is actually a budget that manages the few things that have been done so far, because there are no major announced reforms on the new funding, on joint planning in the supply area, considering that only € 607 million are allocated for the funding of hospitals. Now the dispute with the doctors, the countries are blocking 15a agreements, they are being postponed and so on. So I think the situation is unfavourably unfavourable for the great reform you are always talking about. And to Mr Keck I would like to say that his ideological martial spirit, which he has now developed out here, will certainly not be very helpful for this reform to go a step further. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, whatever is insecure – and I am certainly not one who is in the smell of being a doctor's representative, I am a patient like any other in this country – is that as a citizen you do not know exactly how to dampen costs. The word is already dangerous, always this “cost - dampening path. ” It should be said honestly, which dampens these costs: through savings, through savings in patients or through savings in the system. When the system is saved, we are certainly partners for these things from the BZÖ. From our point of view, and it has already been mentioned by many previous speakers, it is also very important for reasons of efficiency to give more attention to prevention and health care. It is really unfortunate that the prevention budget is a reduced budget and that your objectives of action, which you are saying, are rather carefully formulated. From our point of view, it is quite clear how the deficits are addressed in the field of psychosocial and rehabilitation health for children and young people. There are no targets that are specified at all, and there is much to do. Mr Rasinger has already mentioned it, it is not possible for 180 children to create a rehab facility in Austria. I just learned about a case in Styria, where a child is treated psychologically and the adequate accommodation is not possible. It is good, it is positive, Mr Federal Minister, that you have extended the vaccination plan, but there is no objection at all, but, for example, in the further development of the mother-child passport to a parent-child-pass, you close your eyes and ears. You don't think that's necessary. This is a request which we have not only submitted but which has been in a committee for some time. I hardly hear anything from you, too. I am thinking only of the petition that is about to be reached or already received by Parliament. 70,000 Austrians have signed a petition for a daily movement unit in kindergartens and schools. 183 Members of this House have also signed this petition. My colleague Peter Westenthaler made a request in this direction yesterday, which will be voted on tomorrow, because I think it is an alarm signal when over 40 percent of children are obese and only more than 28 percent of children and adolescents even have sports. I am already looking forward to tomorrow's vote on this request, but I would also like to hear from you, Mr Federal Minister, and not just that you are not responsible, perhaps that is the Ministry of Education or the Ministry of Family Affairs. You have mentioned in your action goals prevention program breast cancer screening – is okay, is okay and is also very welcome, no question. But they also want to bring more men to the precautionary examinations. But I miss the offers you want to make, except that you might be camping them. I think we should also take a sustainable step. For us from the BZÖ is very important: Staying healthy is cheaper than getting healthy. And I do not want to quote the Court of Auditors again, which has clearly stated this. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] In contrast to Mr Lugar, who spoke a lot out here, the BZÖ has thought and acted, and we have considered a proposal: How to introduce a bonus model? – A bonus model that already exists in the occupational social security system, where one can agree with the doctors goals, health goals for a healthy lifestyle, and if one achieves these goals, then the self retention is halved. This model is very successful. In some federal states, twice as many insured people go to the precautionary check. And this should also be taken as an occasion for a good idea to expand and think on a good project. Therefore, we propose not only for occupational social security, but also for the ASVG insurers that health targets can also be set in this area in an analogous way to this SVA model. If you successfully pursue these health goals, 25 € per month will be credited to an insured person as part of the employee's contribution. I should like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I think it is important that you bring the insured ones back to their own health and, if they work actively for their own health, that they are rewarded for it. Mr. Federal Minister, I hope you take up this idea – we are discussing it very seriously – and do not see it as an idea that comes from the opposition once again. This would also be something for the future: a reform approach, a reform idea so that the health insurance companies are not only health insurance funds, but will also become health insurance funds in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e29676	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e29762	The next speaker was Mr Donabauer. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e29783	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Mr Minister, you have a very important task, but not an easy one. If I listen now to what there is in opinions – all this will be difficult to coordinate. Allow me to perhaps try to make a statement on some of the questions asked! If you only demand reforms because the system does not fit you, this is the right of every individual. Think about it: Austria has a system that is of course not flawless, but that all persons without regard to their age, membership or other needs are involved in the legal system and can expect all benefits in case of need from it is unique. Show me a second country that can still do that! Germany abolished this, has introduced insurance instead of compulsory insurance. You already regret it. That means we have to work on the improvement, but not on the abolition. - Point one. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Point two. Today we have been talking about what we can save everything. – Of course: You can save anywhere! But when we discussed the reforms about 2001/2002, it was these groups that desired all the leading social services. Why did you do that? If that's nothing anyway, I wonder: Why did you sign up for this desire at the time? I'll tell you something else. 2.6% of the administrative burden in the statutory social security is legendary, given. You can read it everywhere. In AUVA it is 7.6 percent. Minister, this is a subject. In the private insurance we need, which is good, not a question, we are far more than 18 percent. You can browse all the balance sheets, you'll see it. And that's why I think a change is okay, yes, should be discussed, but that can't be the only reason for your expectation. What I expect, Minister, is that a few things are already being negotiated with caution. The first is the health reform. It's difficult. You're going to put up with secret negotiations, that's what you're gonna do. My topic is different: Please, Mr Minister, there must not be any change in health insurance! When that comes, no one wins except that a few are right. It can't be. The combination, the system we now have, has proved itself largely. Only after the health reform must the participation of all social security institutions be guaranteed, not just by a few, all! Everyone who gives money has to be there. Next point: the precautionary examination. It has a reason why it is not so well accepted. I think that's where we need to improve. Either we do something in terms of access conditions or, if you want to do so, the colleague Haubner has brought in quite a good deal, perhaps also a credit rating system, something, but the precautionary examination needs more attention, especially in the case of mental diseases, whose number has increased enormously over the past five or eight years, but also in the case of metabolic diseases and the like. That's where we need action and regulation. One last point. It is said again and again that Austria has a medical shortage. - Well, yes. When I look at the figures of the main association, I read that the number of general physicians has increased by 9.6 percent since 2005, that of the specialist doctors by 15.9 percent. That's what I'm asking: Where's the medical shortage? When I read here that 12 percent more are in education since 1995, I see no shortage of doctors. I see only one lack of something else, namely the provision of the citizens on the weekend and on the holidays. [[Complaints with the SPÖ-nets.]] If you get sick today on the weekend or on a holiday, tell me where you're going. There you have to go to the hospital; otherwise you hear a very polite tape voice, but you have no supply. I think we also need to talk about these issues in the framework of health reform, because they are things that affect citizens every day, and the citizens also expect a solution from us. There is still much to be said, but the speaking time has expired. Minister, I wish you all the best!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e29857	Next speaker: Mrs Kaufmann-Bruckberger. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e29880	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! First of all, I'm sorry that my colleagues, Steibl and Haubner, are not here. After all: If our clubman would like to talk about a topic here and address various areas of this topic and want to use the individual speaking time of 20 minutes, he will of course also be allowed. But this is probably the way to deal with democracy here in the House. I would ask you to forward this to your fellow Members. Back to the real topic. In England – democratic understanding that it is for him to take the word for the time that is due him. [[Abg. May. Gaßner: What?]] [[Abg. Dr. Cap: What should we say?]] [[Abg. Dr. Cap: He talked eh!]] – Yes, it was about criticism, gentlemen. [[Call the SPÖ: It was too long!]] - Well, that's meaty. That's for him, too. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: It's for him! There we are on your side!]] But let's get back to the health field! In England, due to the high dental costs, the British often prefer to pull their teeth themselves. Or: In America, it says that when Americans come to hospitals and don't have health insurance, they have to wait a very long time for treatment. We've all heard these stories before. But, as I said, it's probably only stories, too. We in Austria, we can lean back calmly. We're saying the health insurance company's gonna make it, the health insurance fund's gonna pay it. And this statement also shows the picture of our Austrian health system. The OECD comparison shows that Austria is fifth in the per capita health costs and is therefore also in the leading field. The Austrians are around a third more common in the hospital than the Germans, two thirds more often than the Dutch and twice as much as the OECD average. I personally do not believe that the Austrians are more sick than the people in other countries, but I believe that this is simply the system and that the system is to blame. There are no co-ordinated double examinations and no coordinated treatment between doctors in practice and hospitals, and I believe that this is also a reason for the cost explosion or the red figures of the health insurance companies. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] A comprehensive health reform is underway, a comprehensive health reform is urgently needed. And we also need a Minister of Health who is confident that this reform will take place. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: That's what he's doing!]] There must be an independent evaluation of the performance of contractual doctors, a greater economic autonomy of hospitals. This would also lead to higher cost efficiency. The profiteer pharmaceuticals industry is also taken note of once, because in Austria we pay much more for medicines than our German neighbours. There should be no political influence in the future, only the framework should be regulated by the state and the state should be there. The blockades of the doctor's chamber – which we have heard more often today – should really be left out in the future. I think it is time for us to start this reform together. Why don't we just start with the health insurance companies? – Powerful, economically sound and above all party-free, that should be the goal. Health costs must be easily manageable and affordable for the Austrians and for the people living in Austria. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] For this reason, I would like to make the following request:
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e30007	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e30074	Next speaker: Mr Spindelberger. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e30096	Ladies and gentlemen, I don't understand the world very slowly anymore. Instead of being proud of our good health system, we just sit down and question everything, talk badly. If my predecessor, the colleague Kaufmann-Bruckberger, said that we are so spoiled in Austria because the health insurance fund pays everything, I say: Let's be glad we have such a good system! But one thing has to be left here as a Member of Parliament: whether we listen to the clubman Lugar or not and how we evaluate his opinions here. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kaufmann-Bruckberger.]] One thing I have to tell you, Mr. Lugar: If I were the Franz Strohsack – as he really is – and if I had heard your speech in front of the TV screen, I would have to say: [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: Go! That's it!]] Please pay back your monthly Gage – if I can believe media reports – again! Because you didn't deserve them. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ing. Lugar.]] Because your words speak white envy. In his short term of office, Federal Minister Stöger has managed to bring a consolidation course for health insurance providers to the rails, which has led to the result that the present delivery result – we are not talking about red figures – of a surplus of € 106 million. – Only so that this is clear. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In addition, there is an extension of the children's vaccination programme in 2013, for which additional million amounts will be made available next year, so that there are free pneumococcal vaccinations and free meningococcal vaccinations. And when Mr. Rasinger – which has irritated me a little today – is irritable about the fact that the doctors are too little involved in the whole process – we just talked about it two days ago – I reply: For 18 months, what ELGA is about to do has been negotiated, and I believe that Federal Minister Stöger will be very likely to involve doctors in future when it comes to improving the health system for us. Mr Donabauer said it quite correctly: You can't stand and just say away from the hospitals, everything in the settled area. We in the country experience it on the weekend, even during the week, almost daily when I want to go to the doctor that no one is there. The domestic doctors sometimes refuse to make house visits, so that I have nothing left but to go to the hospital. And Friday at noon, I don't see a specialist anymore, so as a patient, I'm not left with anything but to visit the ambulances in the hospitals. I would like to address Dr. Karlsböck, who, in his speech here on Tuesday, accused Federal Minister Stöger: There's nothing going on anyway, there's only self-retaining being introduced. – That's just so much: During the period 2000 to 2006 under the Black and Blue Government – in my short speaking time I don't have so many possibilities to list all the horrors – there has been a 40 percent increase in the prescription fees, an inconsistency fee has been introduced, higher self-sufficiency in the case of healing, as well as an increase in health insurance contributions – many have already forgotten – for pensioners. And the contribution-free co-insurance for members was also deleted. In contrast, a free vaccination has been introduced under Federal Minister Stöger, and the health insurance funds have been rehabilitated without any reduction in benefits. And there are great prevention measures such as the child health dialogue, as well as the national action plan on nutrition that he has launched, and laws that we can be proud of, the electronic health acts, but also the Medical Assistance Act. That's what he put on the rails. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If Mr Hofer, who now unfortunately shines through absence, has meant today that we still have a trauma of black and blue from the SPÖ, I say quite openly: Yes, I have this trauma, because if I just look at what happened among the ministers of Sickl, the main, the smoke-callat, this time was characterized by a flood of deterioration and financial burdens for the workers, for the employees, for pensioners and pensioners. In return, however, there have been billions of heavy tax gifts to large companies and corporations at the time. However, the current government attaches importance to social compensation, and despite the strained economic situation, it has succeeded in strengthening purchasing power and economic activity. That's how the world looks!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e30166	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e30188	Mr President. High house! I allow myself to answer a few issues that I have been asked questions about. Mrs Belakovich-Jenewein is not here. Then I don't have to answer. I thank Mrs Oberhauser for her constant support. I would also like to thank Mr Grünewald, who raised an important issue, namely that if you talk about lack of doctors, you also have to talk about full-time equivalents. He has made some good contributions to this, which will, of course, also involve in the health discussion. Mr Rasinger has made it clear with his 24 fingers that the health system is complex. It's important that we need partners where we can work. I think it is essential that we keep patients in the foreground; and the health reform has this very goal. We want to improve the patient’s health care – and this budget will make this up. Mr Spadiut said that the administrative costs are so high because there are 175 outposts from regional health telephones. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Thank God there are these! Thank God, people need care on the spot! It's not good if we only had one health insurance fund in Austria, this would be in 10. Wiener Gemeindebezirk. And then what would be in Carinthia, Tyrol, Vorarlberg, Salzburg or Upper Austria? We need these offices, they also cost something, but they are a contribution to the supply. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It has been mentioned that the budget for prevention is lower. That may be the case with the Federal Budget. I cannot understand what Mr Spadiut meant, but I have made available in the Federal Health Commission all the means available to me for prevention and information on proper nutrition. And we have started very important elements to improve the nutrition situation, especially among children and young people. [[President Neugebauer shall take over the chairmanship.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Lugar has said so much and so little information that I have to allow myself to say a few things about it. We have introduced a hepatitis B vaccination for all children in Austria, for example. It is carried out in three partial vaccinations, and there is also a follow-up vaccination, i.e. a freshening vaccination in the 12. Year of life. This was introduced in 1998 by a predecessor of me, Mrs Eleonora Hostasch, and the children born during this period have already been vaccinated. I would also like to say quite clearly that it is important to make savings, and I am replying to what you yourself have said. If this is true that a third of the medication is not used at all, it is not taken at all, then a more targeted prescription can improve a lot. With the Electronic Health Act, we achieve this safely. I'd be glad if your group would have voted in favour. The child health strategy has been addressed by Mrs Ridi Steibl. And one thing I say clearly again – I do not see Mr Karlsböck right now, but I have to say that: We have said quite clearly that we want to reduce costs, but we will have more money at our disposal next year, and we will also have more money at our disposal in 2016. We are the only country in Europe in which the government has given this mandate. I am one who is going to move forward with the development of the health system, and it is important for me to point it out.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e30255	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Strutz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e30278	Mr President. Federal Minister! I would like to start by referring to the comments made by my previous speaker, Mr Spindelberger. Mr President, one can be of different political opinion, having different political positions, but to make fun of a name with a certain undertone, as you have now done in the direction of the new political group, saying: You, with your straw, which is really called strawbag!, should think about social democracy a little bit about what is going on here. If someone else said so, the accusation would be raised towards anti-Semitism and the like. [[Call the SPÖ:Well go!]] I believe that this is not the level we should maintain here in the House, about names that have been changed that have been changed for good reason – I assume you know history too – to be ridiculous. [[Congratulations with Team Stronach and FPÖ]] [[New applause with Team Stronach and FPÖ.]] We are now discussing the Health chapter. In my view, this is certainly the most important area in this budget, because each of us is personally affected. If you look at the cost explosion in the budget – still – the proportion of the health chapter, you can see that we have acute needs for action here also due to demographic development. We are living longer, so we will also need more care in the future, we will need more medical care – therefore also rightly the call for more doctors, therefore also rightly, Mr Donabauer, already now the demand for additional training. Technological progress will take on more money. But I believe that not only can we see this negative, but we should also see the health sector as a real opportunity in terms of jobs, in terms of more quality, because I believe we can create new jobs in the medical, in the nursing field if we train well if we increase quality. In this context, we should focus on universities in particular. If you look at what happens every year when young people try to get a doctor’s education, you know that there is an acute need for action here. We believe that the money available in this budget is misappropriated. We should, for example, use these hundreds of millions of euros, which are now being spent on the ELGA IT project, in order to provide more staff for the care, medical and nursing care of Austrians. We need more doctors, we need more care staff, which is also better trained and better rewarded, because then we will increase quality. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I think we can talk about three basic health mistakes. Instead of disease, the view should be directed more towards health in the future. That means that we should take more measures towards health orientation, prevention. I think that the division of competence and institution-oriented financing are the main evils leading to this cost explosion. In other words, within the framework of a principle legislation that we can only decide in the federal government, we will finally have to get there that the division of skills in the hospital area, in the established area, the separation between the competences of the federal government and country competences in this field belongs to the past. For this, Mr Federal Minister, you can certainly see us as a constructive partner, because we believe that only cross-sectoral planning actually helps to save financial costs without people feeling it outside. We also need increased quality control. In my view, the Austrian health care system is too little in terms of quality and evidence in international comparison. A comprehensive quality control – I would like to say so – would help correct errors, a comprehensive quality management and transparent handling of the financial resources would help to make the best use of the financial resources available to us. As far as the speaking time is concerned, these three comments are to be considered as constructive contributions. As has been said, take a courageous approach to the health reform, especially in the area where the competences of the Federation lie, where we can bring together these fragmented competences in the draft! You have a constructive partner with our group.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e30334	Next speaker: Mrs Hellerer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e30355	Mr President. Federal Minister! It has been mentioned several times today: The health system in Austria is an excellent one, according to WHO, among the top ten. It looks less good with a cost comparison. At international level, our health system is one of the most expensive, a very expensive. That the necessary changes must be implemented here, that measures must be taken, that is probably everybody aware. In order to maintain the very high medical standard for future generations, it is also necessary to save, but please in the bureaucracy and in the administration and not in the medical care. The reform negotiations, Mr Federal Minister, yes, this is a drilling of hard boards also due to the competence situation in Austria. It will also be necessary to involve all relevant donors, but also doctors, so that they can really be successfully put on the road. Also, we should not let ourselves be displeased by those already reached, such as the e-card or the implementation of ELGA. For this reason, I also see the current campaign of the medical chamber very differentiated. Panikmache certainly does not help us any further, although I have a very differentiated view of the facts about supply in the country and I also have the concern that a problem can grow here in the future. It is about holding back the threatening two-class geographical medicine that is taking place around itself. The signs already speak for that. It now takes a few months in the rural communities for a doctor's office to be re-occupied. This also testifies to a citizens' initiative and petitions that have been introduced here in Parliament. The Austrian medical needs study, which was sent to the European Commission as a reason for the continuation of the quota scheme to Medical Union, results in the same result. However, I have to correct something. With 23,6 medical graduates in 100,000 inhabitants, Austria is not bad. We However, there is a distribution problem as to what is going on in the medical field, because many young doctors work in hospitals, and few want to go to the countryside. Due to the fact that work in the country is not so good for them, the physicians lead the working time, weekend, night and leisure services, the honorary and also the withdrawal of the house pharmacies in the retirement of a predecessor when the 6-kilometre limit cannot be met to the next public pharmacy. This is a major challenge for rural areas and for people living there, especially those who are not so mobile, especially for the older generation and also for young families with children. The age structure also stops. The average age of general physicians is 56 years. This shows that a generation change can be expected. These are trends that indicate that, despite a sufficient number of trained doctors, medical care will be tightened, especially in rural areas. In order to safeguard domestic health practices, it is necessary to upgrade the profession of the ‘house doctor’ or ‘country doctor’, and appropriate incentive systems must also be created. What we still lack, Mr Federal Minister, is the announced efficient family doctor model, with, of course, the focus being on measures which include securing and improving people's living-place care. It is mainly about the fact that people in rural areas must not be put worse in terms of medical and medical care than they are in urban areas. I will not continue to stop making these demands.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e30417	Next speaker: Mr Klubobmann Ing. Lugar. Second word, 3 minutes of speaking time are still available to you, Mr Klubobmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e30438	Mr President. I have to speak again now, because I really find this very worrying about what is going on here. Mrs Steibl of the ÖVP came to the speaker's desk after me and said that my speech was harmful to health. She did not miss out on content at all, she did not say a word about content, she simply meant that it would be harmful to health if I gave up my speech here, just as I do. After that, someone from the SPÖ also meant that it was not the content, it was the length of my speech contribution that shocked her so much. I can only tell you one thing: I have a right of speech here in Parliament, and I use my right to speak and my time, as I wish, and I am sure I will not take into account what you would like. [[In the case of the Stronach team as well as the Abg. Linder]] If what I say – as someone from the ÖVP has said – without anyone wanting to hear it, then I can only recommend: Go to the cafeteria, drink You have a beer, as many others have done, or have a conversation with your neighbors, just like many do! Everything no problem, I'm going to say everything I have to say here, and I don't even care if you like it or not. If you feel this is harmful to your health, I can only tell you one thing: Their health is not at risk, but the inactivity shown by the Minister is very likely to put health at risk. I would like to comment briefly on the points I have raised. I have spoken about 300,000 alcohol diseases in Austria, which no one seems to care for. Is it harmful if I address this? Or is it perhaps harmful for me to speak of 600 000 diabetes 2 cases in Austria, which tend to rise strongly? Is that a point of order when I'm talking about this? Or is it an advantage when I say that we need more quality in the hospital area? Maybe it's an advantage for the ÖVP when I say that 10 percent of the diagnostics are wrong? All of this was not contradicted by the Minister. He has only said in relation to the medi-comes that he is not sure whether a third is really thrown away. But he didn't address anything else. As for the vaccinations, hepatitis A and B, I did not mean the children, but the adults who often cannot afford it, and they are just as dangerous. If you don't want to hear all this, I can only tell you, you're in the wrong event. Finally, Parliament is concerned that everyone can say what he believes he represents. If we are being insulted here, and if Frank Stronach, who is also present in the house and will come right away, is being humiliated here, then I can only tell you, finally, parliamentarianism lives on the fact that it is exchanged that it is said that there are different points of view. So it's supposed to be, and if you didn't understand that, then you're, as I said, in the wrong event.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e30511	Next speaker: Mr Vock. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e30533	Mr President. Minister! High house! First of all, allow me to make a request as animal welfare work is still largely voluntary and the animals depend on donations. [[Quoted print version removed]] I am glad that over 10 percent of the animal welfare budget goes to research. These are 70 000 for the Messel Institute, 50,000 for the development of new systems of fermenting bays. In this context, Mr President, I should like to say that, with the exception of the term'sweeping', which I hope will soon be improved if these fermenting bays are no longer used. A further 25 percent go to the association “Animal Protection Makes School”. This is an investment in the future for education in school. We also welcome the department for checking the installation systems, budgeted at € 250 000. I cannot understand the following objective: the implementation of the directive on the protection of the slaughter and the killing. Mr Minister, I have a request to you concerning the control of § 32 para. 4 and 5 of the Animal Protection Act. I wanted to raise up-to-date numbers, because I want to work with concrete numbers and not with rumors. In Germany it is heard that 70 percent are already slaughtered in half. But that's just a rumor, so I wanted effective numbers. We have an animal welfare law that sets this control down, and then I get the answer: The number of halal slaughters is not collected separately. That means that we can only do polemics here because the Minister does not want to raise current figures, although the part of the Animal Protection Act is. How can you ensure, Minister, that the provisions of animal welfare are complied with in slaughter if these exceptions are not raised? Finally, I have one more request to you. We have unanimously blessed some decisions in the interests of animal welfare here in the National Council about a year ago. It has been up to your ministry for a year now to implement these decisions. I would therefore ask you if we would take decisions unanimously to implement them quickly.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e30600	The application submitted is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e30667	Next speaker: Mr Hechtl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e30689	Mr President. Federal Minister! Appreciate High House! The Federal Finance Act 2013 and the Federal Financial Framework Act 2013 to 2016 clearly reflect Parliament's efforts to create a balanced budget by 2016. This will continue the process of achieving a consolidated budget. The 2013 budget involves revenues of around €69 billion. On the other hand, expenditure of €75 billion. This will involve a re-indebtedness of around minus 2.3 percent of the gross domestic product, thereby reducing re-indebtedness. With this re-indebtedness, we are very, very good and far below the Maastricht criteria of 3 percent in Europe. But this budgetary course also brings us greater confidence in the financial economy. Not least, we have heard that the interest rates for ten years Austrian federal bonds now amount to 1.77 percent. This rate of interest, ladies and gentlemen, is, I believe, the best expression that we have great confidence in the financial markets, a great confidence in our, in Austrian budget policy and thus in our common policy. Saving and investing is no difference for me. The health reforms in particular are a good sign of the fact that, with a dampened increase in health expenditure, on average plus 3.6 percent of GDP by 2016, it is possible to ensure the best possible health care at a high level. With the Health Budget 2013, as set out in the estimate, €925.8 million is spent, which is, colleague Belakovich, €11.9 million more than is stated in the federal estimate for 2012. With these financial resources, we will finance hospitals with €607 million – which is also €33.6 million more than 2012 – which will ensure the maintenance of the health insurance fund with €40 million, also by 2016, and will ensure the expansion of the child vaccination programme with additional €4 million in 2013. – This to give just a few examples. Ladies and gentlemen, on Mr Spadiut's statement only briefly: Our Federal Minister Stöger is not a minister of announcement, but a Minister of Implementation. Health insurance, ELGA, the Organ Transplant Act, the Medical GmbH, the Mamma Screening, the Health Insurance for all those involved in the need-oriented minimum security and also the hospital reform, which is now in progress, confirm this. Mr Federal Minister, we thank you for your efforts, and you can definitely count on our help in implementing this hospital reform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e30734	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Aubauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e30755	Mr President. Estimated Minister of State! High house! The debate is running for a few hours now, we have heard a lot of good about our health care, but also much about the construction sites. Now I want to break it down to the question: What does the patient want, what do the patients want? In any case: The supply must be durable, available and of high quality. Does every citizen have equal opportunities? That is an important question for us. There's Austria right there. Recently, Austria has received the best OECD evaluation with regard to citizens' access to top medical services. That is also pleasing for us. And because around the budget so much is talking about saving: Time and again, I've been asked by insured patients, older people who are worried: Is our good health system now being broken? This is quite clear: There is no less money for health care, but there is more money. It only dampens the rise in costs. This can prevent supply cuts as in other countries. That is why we are here on a very good Austrian road. In Austria, everyone who needs an operation will receive it in future. Let's look at England, it's quite different: An older person who needs an artificial hip has little chance. We do not want to do that, but in Austria everyone should receive the same good care. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Our second priority goal is prevention, more precautions, for example before strokes, overweight, much more. We should also provide incentives for healthy lifestyles, such as the social security of the industrial economy, which is highly successful. I personally wish that the children also move more, in schools, but how this is eventually organized, which mascherl is on it, that is not the problem. I think it's going to be possible to get rid of this organisationally. So more prevention is the goal, in all age groups, for all levels of population. Mr Minister, we are also putting great hopes in the new project ELGA. We don't want double findings, we want more protection from drug interactions. Although the electronic health act will not bring savings for this current budget, it will in the foreseeable future help save money, save bureaucracy, and that in the event of constant and even better performance for patients. [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: This does not bring any savings at all, that brings a cost explosion!]] So we don't want new debt, we want to save where it makes sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e30798	Next speaker: Madam President, I should like to thank you for your support. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e30819	Mr President. Minister! Minister! I can use this debate to discuss two topics with you, Mr Minister, and I would like to encourage you to think about it in this way. One is, and you should not be surprised at that now, the subject area of registration. We have defined these in the Government Agreement. Registration means complete recording of all professionals of a particular health profession. This is linked to a professional ID, to a professional right and, of course, also to training obligations which need to be defined. Registration is important for the Federation on the one hand in terms of health planning, but also for professionals and patients, because it is ultimately and finally also about quality assurance. Now MTD-Austria founded the Register GmbH a few years ago. We have already had about 10 500 voluntary registrations in this Register GmbH. These registrations were free of charge for those who registered themselves as well as for the taxpayer. It is not a cent tax money that has been paid exclusively from the contributions of the professionals. So it's gone without the taxpayer's burden. There is now a draft from the ministry, where it says that the registration of health professions should be carried out through the Federal Chamber of Labour. Minister, this is an affront for the MTD-Austria professional association. We have already done so much good foreworking, and it is actually not possible to see why a foreign professional should do what the professional association can. But it is also not quite for us from the ÖVP. There are several of these occupational groups. a large proportion of self-employed people – I call the physiotherapists, ergotherapists, logoists – for whom the Federal Chamber of Labour is not the preferred partner, but we would like to be registered with our own professional representative. I therefore urge you to consider this again. The second topic – which is also very important to me, and you know yourself very well – is the prevention fund of the Upper Austrian Regional Hospital. The Oberösterreichisches Landeskrankenkasse manages excellently, has a clean fortune of about €180 million. She would like to put the money in some prevention projects. This is not possible in itself, because it is only intended for deficit coverage. In a country where child and youth health is not really best ordered – Mrs. Haubner has already mentioned a few figures today – it is actually one of the most important things to invest in prevention. Now there is a proposal that up to 10 per cent may be transferred to a prevention fund, but provided that once again half of this sum has to flow into a main association prevention fund. Her successor as the chairman of the Oberösterreichische Gebietskrankenkasse, Felix Hinterwirth, refers to this as an attack on the money of the Upper Austrian contributors. In the new draft, there should be nothing in it again, and I would really like to ask you very much for information on what this is supposed to be like. I believe that if a local health insurance fund manages as well as the Upper Austrian, then it should not be punished for this, then it should be able to actually carry out the prevention projects it is planning. That's why I'd ask you very, very cordially.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e30871	I am no longer able to speak on the subject of health subdividing. The chapter is thus completed. [[15:30:55]] Heading 3 (Education, research, art and culture) [[15:30:58]] UG 30: Education, art and culture
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e30898	We now come to the discussion on heading 3: Education, research, art and culture, and here to subheading 30: Education, art and culture. The debate opens up to Mr. Dr. Rosenkranz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e30922	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! To the educational budget. It has already been discussed the day before. For example, Mr Krainer was pleased that the educational budget was rising, but the Federal Minister himself said that it was primarily due to the rise in salaries and rents. That means, of course, that what can be used to carry something on in education is a smaller cake. Nevertheless, it is gratifying that the savings are not as drastic – or do not fail at all – as in other resorts. For example, we did not have to discuss in detail yesterday the cuts in the area of national defence. In order not to suspend me here from the accusation of the Social Democrats that we have nothing constructive or nothing positive, I would say that there are many areas where we agree with the ideas that the Federal Minister also has. I am thinking of the expansion of the Polytechnic School, I am thinking of special educational centres, special school and the like, and in particular administrative reform. So, but you will forgive me, esteemed members of the Social Democracy, that I do not want to acquire the prize of the Renner/Pernerstorfer/Adler Medal in Gold for ministering, but that I do very well to make some critical moments here. I am aware of the recent debate, especially during day care – Mrs. Mühlberghuber will also devote herself to this issue – that there is a way for teachers to be eliminated, that the trade union should not talk here. Is this now a paradigm change in social democracy, that the opinions of trade unions, staff representatives, works councils are no longer so important at once? Is there something going on, and will we experience it at the ÖBB or elsewhere? - I don't think so. I do not want to take a professional stand in general now, there are teachers and, as in any other professional group, “teachers”. It'll be everywhere. It'll be everywhere. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig:...! “Vulnerable” is not a beautiful word!]] – If you do not know: “Teachers and apprentices” is a quote from Alois Brandstätter, from the book “To the Burdens of Letters”. [[Cheerfulness at the FPÖ.]] It's about how to hear the teachers. The OECD says that there is a lot of money being pumped into Austrian education, but there is very little in the classroom. There's obviously a filter somewhere in between. However, the filter, I believe, also works in the opposite direction, because there are many teachers in schools who have good ideas, but they obviously do not get through with the filter of brain researchers, education scientists and even some industrialists who are spreading in the field of education. So this exchange, I think, doesn't work. But something else for social democracy. We have heard it on the subject of workplace situation in Austria, and the Freedom Party has also reaped criticism from the Minister and from his ranks. There is a newspaper that writes – the colleague Schopf is not here now –: “Workplaces – the great success story”. We are “high in jobs ” and“ very good in youth unemployment ” there is to read. Is that true, ladies and gentlemen, of social democracy? Is that right? I understood it so much that you think we're so great. So a newspaper that writes something like that, ladies and gentlemen of Social Democracy, can't be distrusted. The stupid thing is that on the same double side, where this praise of social democracy is sung, is in this newspaper: ‘Education policy – the big debacle’. ==References====External links== ==References== This article presents the PISA results compared to the results of the Joanneum GEM study, in which not only dry things are measured as with PISA, but also creativity and entrepreneurship. The result is that the students who have cut off well during the PISA test do not necessarily have to be good in terms of entrepreneurship and creativity. Or it's the other way around, or you're good in both areas. Only: In Austria, we are bad in both areas. There are some problems that arise. For example, the expert Salcher says that there is a problem in the gymnasium, in the higher schools, in AHS and BHS, because they are practically total schools in agglomeration centres, but in the worst form, without any funding education. The result is that one third of the students are bored because they are undernecessary, one third slips through, and one third is completely overwhelmed. This is also the problem that we then have, which then goes on to the universities. There are then two ways to solve this problem: either a high-level matura or a selection of students at the respective university through admission examination. To clarify: We do not want to take a entrance exam at the universities, but the Matura in Austria must offer the level so that a degree can be handled, every study. That'd be safe in itself. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But in Austria we don't have both, and it doesn't look like it's going in this direction either. I quote here the “New Zurich Newspaper” of the 29th century. ==References== The rector of ETH Zurich, Lino Guzzella, says that the gymnasia should be “more demanding and more performance-oriented”. – Performance and effort, that is what we want to give to our young people for the future, because life looks like that. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: They're already very busy, I can tell you that!]] – You will talk later, and I will be happy to listen to you. At present, we are moving towards a reduction in Matura's level. Just one example: In May it became the basic competence of the students of the 8th century. School level in mathematics audited. Good and right, there's something like that. But there were the 13 to 14-year-olds asked questions, which were sometimes very blatant. This confirmed me a university professor of mathematics. On the basis of the 1949 booklet, he was able to put together a test work with far more difficult examples from the primary school to the gymnasium than is the current standard for the 13 to 14-year-olds. That is to say, in 60 years, a lurking of knowledge has taken place from three to four years, and there must be no wonder that basic competence is missing or declining in mathematics. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And who is drawn to all these things? – The BIFIE. The Court of Auditors is currently criticizing the events in this Federal Institute in its report: Missiles still and still. We will certainly discuss this in more detail in the Court of Auditors. Only as an example: After four years of activity, directors who relate more than section heads have not even received a written contract of service. They receive success premiums without a corresponding basis, they receive one-off payments without a basis. And the opinion of the managing directors is: By the end of May 2012, the Supervisory Board of the BIFIE has “not yet submitted a legally binding offer to the Directors and to the Federal Government’s contractual stenciling regulation in writing”. And who's in the Supervisory Board? – For example, a certain Mr. Lacina, former Minister of Finance. What happens to control there? – This is massively denied by the Court of Auditors. It's the same as the service trips. The Court of Auditors concludes as one of the 44 recommendations: “As a result of the lower performance of Austrian students in the course of the period, targeted measures to improve student performance would have to be taken in the international comparison.” – But it does not happen! One thing to conclude with this BIFIE: This BIFIE, although 100% of public subsidies are fed, has accumulated a low interest rate savings of € 8 million. I cannot imagine that this is a serious financial planning. Therefore, I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] This institution is not a savings club; the Austrian schools need money more urgently.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e31021	The motion for a resolution tabled is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e31108	Next speaker: Mr Mayer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e31129	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We will certainly discuss the issue of BIFIE in an appropriate place. I should like to return to what is essential in the field of education, and I am actually pleased with the constructive proposals that Mr Rosenkranz has made, because all these points he has listed, which are also legitimate criticisms, which Mr Haubner, too, repeatedly brings, take into account the measures we have already decided. I am thinking of the competence-oriented Matura; I am thinking of the education standards that bring about a substantial new thinking in schools; I am thinking of all the reforms of the upper level with the modular upper level, which bring more skills to support. – You know all of this, you are the chairman of the Committee, you know that. And you also know that this cannot be stopped from today to tomorrow, but school is a development process, and in this we are. I would really like to take the opportunity to congratulate you, ladies and gentlemen, on the excellent work that has been done, and also on this excellent budget, which ensures that all these reform measures, which we have, in part, jointly agreed, can also be implemented. This will be the decisive step, and we are working on that. Those who have been concerned know that a lot has been done, I don't want to add that up. But what I want to address – also because Mr Walser speaks directly after me – is the following: I read that in the Vorarlberger Landtag there is a historical approach that the Greens in Vorarlberg, although in the opposition, agree to the budget entirely to the entire national budget. - Happy, happy! There was, of course, an evil comment from a critical journalist in the “Vorarlberger Nachrichten” that ends this way – I may quote –: “The budget in Vorarlberg is the policy of the ÖVP cast in figures. As a result, approval of the entire budget is the consent to the entire black policy. Smoking – the Green spokesperson in Vorarlberg – “and the Greens know this. And seek to ignore it – with regard to the 2014 country election, the bride wears green.” [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: I understand the station, I honestly say!]] Well, now we can see that. Now, of course, Mr. Rauch has resisted, and what do you hear? – That is a consequence – says smoke for the reason why she agrees to the budget, colleague Walser – because Vorarlberg has taken significant steps in early education and in student care. [[Abg. Dr. Walser: the fourth strongest party!]] If you look at the budget, you notice that these are the means of the federal government. Because we are increasingly giving funds to early education – more than 2 million in Vorarlberg alone every year – the Greens agree. [[Call to the Greens: But they also urgently need this in Vorarlberg!]] You would have every reason, Mr Walser, at least because of these funds, which in Vorarlberg's Landtag lead the Greens to agree to this chapter of education. That would be a real step, because this chapter can be seen. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e31208	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Walser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e31232	Mrs. Minister! Mr President. High house! Mrs Minister, you are now a little bit about a historical event, because, unlike what you say in the Committee, I wanted to praise you today at the beginning and point to some positive things, but now I have to lose a few words on Mr Mayer. Dear Elmar Mayer, that the Vorarlberg Social Democracy is a bit in distress, this is increasingly showing the elections of the last decades. The Greens' approval of this budget is due to very clear successes. And contrary to what has been said here, I can remind you that the Greens, for example, succeeded in implementing the 365-€ ticket in Vienna as an annual ticket for all public transport companies – a great success! [[call to the FPÖ]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz.]] And what do the Vorarlberg Greens do in opposition? – You transport the success project to Vorarlberg! This is green politics, even from the opposition. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] So leave the church in the village; in Vorarlberg you should take a closer look at it anyway. The green agreement was quite clear. The early pedagogical area will be expanded in Vorarlberg with the green's approval, because we are a constructive force, we agree when it is possible to achieve something – but not here, with this budget not quite so encouraging. [[Calls and calls between Green MEPs and SPÖ]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz.]] Mrs Minister, I would like to thank you now, however, for having been in one respect. She did something – less because of the jubilant songs from your own ranks. I mean these praises, this exaggeration of praise. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Hymns! Praise anthems!]] It is called Panegyrik, Mr Mayer, what you are holding here. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Riepl.]] We would like to point out: We have brought together – green and you; I recognise this – the colleagues of the ÖVP to show movement, because it has not happened at some point. [[Abg. Amon: Mr Walser, you are overestimating yourself now!]] After the last cloister of government: a Njet of Moscow to all all day schools. What happens because of public pressure? – On Monday ÖVP suddenly showed up, said: Yes, the expansion of all day school forms is necessary. And today the APA confirms this to you. The APA looks at Europe: School forms are now on the agenda in Europe all day. The last states are Germany – unfortunately God – Austria and Greece. Mr Amon, it is high time you did something. But if you read the release of the clubman, you'll notice that he's talking about care offers, and I'm sorry to say: You're not that up to the height of the pedagogical period yet! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Amon.]] Read a little more about the green education programme, because it's not just about care offers! [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: (in the direction of ÖVP) It's about the children!]] It's about limited lessons, it's about modern schools where children feel comfortable, where they have time to rest, where learning phases alternate with periods of recreation where you can eat in which you can communicate. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz.]] We want such schools and we don't want pure care offers! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] In the “Kurier, ” Martina Salomon told you, she said, as you imagine, that goes toward child prisons. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz.]] – That seems to me to be a too harsh expression, but I think that is the journalistic peak of what the outcome of the EIA education policy is. I have one point to make: Mrs Minister, you will have expected the praise to be limited, because we only receive this modern school with a new teacher's right. And you've been announcing this teacher's law for years now. I know there's a blockade, especially from black side. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] In all that there is there and there are little positive rains and plantations that grow there, but the great litter, Mr Amon, is not yet seen in the ÖVP. Still, I would like to stress that, still sitting – today it is almost symbolic – the President – which I would like otherwise very, very much to say; on educational issues less – the SPÖ in the neck; this is clearly to be seen here. The freedom of movement is, of course, a little limited. I think we can take this image as a symbol of the state of Austrian education policy. Today, something interesting can be read in the “Kurier”: “The new uterus is crumbling in the Holunderbusch.” – Mr President, I think that’s inaccurate, but there you have to go to the “Kurier”. [[The speaker keeps an issue of the “Kurier” up to date.]] Why is the President crumbling? – Because all three ministers seriously want to define a line of government to the general school or to the whole day school, and the “Kurier” states: It won't be. Obviously a little more courageous are the ministers of dog peat and Middle Lehner, who urgently demand what should be clear at the beginning of negotiations: What does the government want? Mrs Minister, what you want, tell us all the time, but what this government wants, we haven't experienced until today. I can propose a model from Vorarlberg. There were democratic institutions in Bregenzerwald centuries ago. The Bregenzer Forests met, these are smart boys and women, and have built a municipal house on eight meters high stilts. The delegates, the elected representatives of the people, were able to take food – food and drink – and then they had to go up the heads. When they were up, the leaders were taken away, and the ambassadors were not allowed to go down until they had agreed. Some have been hungry, and the hunger has forced them to compromise. Mrs. Schmied! Take your government colleagues with you, build such a house on stilts and go to clause so that you can bring together at least one government line! [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: accelerates this!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grandruck.]] You can check on the famous Bezeggsul. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Grandruck.]] There are many details in this budget that are really sad: the renewed reduction – Mrs Minister – it is a reduction – of the funds for private schools. We've been at €5 million, now we've got 4.49 million inside. That's true! I got an e-mail from the LernART yesterday: Please, stand up for private schools! We don't know what to do anymore. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Rudas.]] We were promised 1 000 € per student, we are currently getting between 700 and 750 €, and this is further shortened. They subsidize a single private school, the Vienna International School, higher than hundreds of private schools with alternative educational concepts in the country – one! The Vienna International School receives nearly 5 million. This school goes to diplomat children, children from the better circles, children from lawyers. [[Call the Greens.]] Is that justified in any form? The pedagogical concept may be good, but if we want to move on, you have to intervene in a supportive way where really dedicated teachers, dedicated parents are involved. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Ursula Haubner.]] Efficiency in the education system is important, ladies and gentlemen! But we also need a system of education in which the children have time. The economicisation of our education system is the absolutely wrong way. We can't standardize everything. Children must have time for social exchange in school, they must have the opportunity to make mistakes. It must not be sanctioned. They must have the opportunity to eat, they must have the opportunity to play sports and to recover. Only under such conditions is a modern school imaginable, so I can finally tell you something that is actually obvious: At a zero rate, there will be no major school reform that we need. We need to invest in the education system. You need to invest in the schools, in the building structure. There needs to be a completely different approach to pedagogy when we see it at present. And this requires a line of government, and it needs the will of all those involved. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We also need to be determined about projects such as teacher service law. You're already kneeling before the negotiations begin. I'm not talking about that now. You personally, but the red-black government. You do not even trust to cough when Mr Neugebauer is nearby. I mean, there's nothing to feel about movement at all. The ÖVP continues to run its retro-policy, approaching 19th century. ==References====External links== ==References====External links== ==References====External links== There is also the possibility to save, we Greens are always with us. I have also mentioned a great many examples in the Committee: away from the parallelity of the various administrative systems! An administration is more than sufficient, and there you save useful money. Mrs. Minister! We Greens would like to continue to praise you, we would like to remove the positive. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Amon.]] We also remove the positive if it is tripple steps if it is very small steps when it goes in the right direction. But as it is present, I am afraid that we are still far from that motto, which for us is the Green Principle for Education Policy in School: not leaving a child behind! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e31447	Next speaker: Mr Amon. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e31469	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! First of all, Mr Walser: Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I do not think it was his quote, as you have said. [[Calls to the Greens.]] I'm just saying it. It was not his quote when I read the “curier ” correctly. [[Abg. Dr. Walser: You never listen to me!]] I'd also ask you not to do that. I mean, you really can't talk about zero rate. If you say there will be no school reform at zero rate, then you haven't read the budget: €8.5 billion – the highest teaching budget we have ever had; almost €200 million more than last year. [[New call for tender of the Federal Republic of Germany Dr. Walser]] Ladies and gentlemen, this educational budget can be seen! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] It is to thank the Minister for Education and the Minister for Finance - expressly - that this Federal Government places a focus on education and therefore spends more money on education, ladies and gentlemen - no less! This would have deserved a praise from the Greens. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] No reforms, Mr Walser: I do not know how many discussions we have held in recent years, with every reform you have remained in opposition, have explained to us what will not come – it has come through good and consistent cooperation. The last thing you doubted was the question of administrative reform. In the course of the Subcommittee on Education we have told you that we do not want to deal with the bronchange, we want to put ourselves together with the countries again. – Last government clause: The key points of the administrative reform are, a whole level of administration is saved, ladies and gentlemen. This is how to make reforms, not through destructive opposition policy! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Oils: all kinds of pain!]] Now, as it seems that the high flower of the spin doctors has just arrived again, when it comes to all-day school forms If you tell this ammary story here that the ÖVP is now moving towards the school all day long, I have to say: [[Call to the Greens: You can also make destructive government policy!]] I think it has missed your appreciation that it was Minister of Finance Josef Pröll, who said three years ago that we need a very massive investment. It was he who said: 80 million more a year to build up massive care all day long, ladies and gentlemen! We didn't need a call from the Greens to see that there's a need. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mr Walser, I would like to say one thing to you if you make international comparisons: Look Take the Finnish school system, which you are so happy to take as an example! There is no compulsory all-day school there, there is no restricted school. What is available in Finland is: a warm lunch for the children for 30 years. And because these schools are 6- to 18-year-olds, the little ones start lunching at 12 noon, and the 18-year-olds then eat by half two, so that's why it takes up to half three. Afternoon care in Finland, Mr. Walser, takes place on a voluntary basis and the parents pay about €70 for this afternoon care on average – I just want to tell you that. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Walser]] So this model is not so similar to what we have. However, we are not quite ready for expansion, you are right. That is why it is also good and right that we now discuss intensively how we can manage to ensure at least an offer at a reasonable distance to the place of residence. We want to negotiate this with the countries, with the municipalities. Whether there is then a restricted class or if there is a qualified afternoon care, that decides the location. That's the legal situation. And that is what parents, teachers and school partners agree with, because it is a good model. Why should parents be forced to have their children cared for in school in the afternoon? Why should we do this if there is perhaps a parent or a grandparent who wants to look at the child? [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] Why should we force the children to be in school in the afternoon? [[Call the Greens.]] But if there are parents who want this and who need it, there should also be an offer – also the ÖVP stands up for it, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e31605	Next speaker: Mrs Haubner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e31626	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It has already been mentioned: The educational budget is € 8.5 billion – a lot of money. When you look at how it is divided: There is €6.8 billion in the global budget for schools and teachers – 80 percent of them for salaries, still very high – and €1.2 billion in management and service, more in administration than in quality development and student promotion, namely €180 million. Then you have to ask yourself: Yes, that's a lot of money, but if it's targeted, is it properly aligned where this money goes if so much continues to be in personnel costs? I would, however, like to address two objectives of action that are contained in your budget. That's what an effect goal is: Increase the level of education. This is where you cite all the measures that have been carried out in recent years, where we as BZÖ have also voted in part, such as education standards, new secondary school, teaching with Matura and also the expansion of school day care. That is why I do not understand the whole discussion that has taken place in the last few days on the extension of day care. Here in the budget you have agreed to €80 million annually, with the aim of financing 160 000 places by 2014. Now seems to be the desire, I think, to invest more money here on the side of SPÖ – I don't know if this is already agreed or just a pious desire – and now, as it were, the fight begins. I have the feeling – the previous speakers have already mentioned it – that you, Mrs. Federal Minister, have good solutions, have good ideas to confess to a modern school, but when it comes to defining the framework conditions for implementation, it is usually a mess. And so that seems to me now to be at day care and all day schools, because I also have the feeling that we are now once again inside such an ideological patch: the one that is for the whole day school, against the others who are blocking and against it. We from the BZÖ have a completely ideology-free access. We say: What is the benefit of the children in which region? What's the best for the kids? [[BZÖ's condolences.]] We support the motion for a resolution which we, all five political groups in common, have signed on the basis of the popular desire for education and which intends to continue the development of schooling at reasonable distance, such as funding, full-day schooling, afternoon care. In this context, it is necessary to adapt the existing legal situation with regard to school-leaving and decision-making skills of the school partners. For this we stand at the BZÖ. And I would also like to see the school-runners negotiated in the negotiations, because that is something that is no longer contemporary. In some federal states they have already been abolished, but in many not yet. [[Abg. Amon: Because we have the legal situation across school-runners!]] [[Abg. Head: Then you have to redefine the students!]] [[Further calls.]] Yes, but we still have to start these school-sprayers now and ask: What do they bring, what are they doing? And where can we give up on that? – This is absolutely necessary. [[Abg. Großruck: Then all the financing system is changed!]] I would therefore really ask that the church be left in the village to stand by what we have actually agreed on, all five parties, and to implement it now. A second goal, Mrs. Federal Minister, you have in your budget, is that you want to increase the quota of those who complete compulsory school. I was surprised – I have already said in the Committee – that you remain at 87.1 percent, although 2008 was the same final rate. So I'm really wondering, Why don't you have the courage to say, if we are developing towards modern school, that we can increase this quota accordingly? Because you know very well, now we have to spend a lot of money on the free repetition of compulsory schooling, and it's like in the health field: Repair costs more than prevention. That is why I really call on you to reform the 9. School level, for which we already had joint discussions, not only started before the end of this legislative period, but also, as it is so nice to close the bag. Because we need a reform of this 9. School level, and I think it is important to have comparable qualifications. If a person has a compulsory education degree, he should also know what qualifications he has, but above all the employer who employs an apprentice should know this. We have said from BZÖ that we need the labour market maturity of compulsory students. This labour market maturity must be resuscisable, must be feasible, and must therefore also be able to qualify for this 9. In the case of vocational education and training, it is necessary to establish a level of education and training. Two examples I would like to mention here: I think you really have many right ideas and many right approaches, but, as I said, planning security is always lacking. And something I really disagree with here: this whole party political and, above all, ideological chatter on the subject of school, because school is something where the children are at the centre and where there is nothing else. [[Congratulations on Members of BZÖ, SPÖ and ÖVP.]] I would also like to mention some of the things where I have always noticed that you want to, but do not create common positions in the government. First of all, these are the qualifications adjustments in the school administration. Now you've supposedly decided at the government's office that the District School Councils will be abolished. We will see whether it remains with the announcement or whether it will really be implemented. I'm just thinking about it: You have also announced the reduction of the National Council at some point in time, and nothing has happened to this day. Secondly, the new service right is missing. The new teacher service law is crucial for a modern, good school. It is, as it were, the key to the school of the future. Before we have a new teacher's right, everything else is small, Peanuts. This is therefore an essential contribution to a good school, as is the teacher training which must not be neglected, which must be placed above all on new feet and which we have been waiting for very long. And I hope that when a proposal comes from you again, the education is also included in the kindergarten pedagogy. Finally, I would like to say: Modern school must primarily promote the talents, the strengths and potentials of children and young people, and its interests must be centred on. And the goal must be that everyone who attends the school can successfully learn – that is something different for everyone – but can also successfully complete this school. This requires a lot of common will to design and not party-political games. Yesterday – it is still in my ear – the clubman of SPÖ, Mr. Cap, has listed here in an exaggeration of enthusiasm, which is all wonderful in this country, and also said that the schools are working. I think we're a lot away from that. There's still a lot to change.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e31709	Now Mrs. Federal Minister Dr. Schmied is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e31731	Mr President. High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In my introduction, I would like to start by using a few more sentences on the new budget technology, which will be effective from 2013 onwards. In my perception and assessment, we are starting with 2013 a new era of budgeting, on the one hand, with regard to budget technology – we are moving towards double accounting, toward wealth consideration; I think this is very crucial – and the second aspect that I want to highlight positively is the impact orientation of budget management. This simply leads to a deepening of the parliamentary debate – that is, away from the pure consideration of input, also to questions such as: What happens to the resources used?, which objectives do we set? What measures do we take to achieve the objectives, but also to indicators, i.e.: What are we measuring the achievement of the goal? I say very clearly here: We are at the beginning of a development. This is a change in planning processes, including in the ministries. There's going to be a lot more going on there. It is important to me to bring this introduction here. We have once undertaken to begin with three major goals on the part of our department – this is still extensible, but we have set three targets for the four global budgets that exist in the field of education, art and culture. It is also essential for me to note that these are strategic objectives – that is a bit replication of the statements made by Mrs Haubner – so that, as a result, there is no immediate impact on the achievement of the objectives of the measures referred to. We have listed 15 measures, which you see in the budget issues, and these measures simply reflect the core and key projects of the department. All of this will then be deepened on a detailed budget level. I can only report to you from the internal discussions: It changes the working style. And I consider that to be absolutely positive. With the indicators, we simply have to deal with the fact that we are in the field of operationalization, i.e. quantifications. This is better in individual areas, perhaps not as good in other areas. In my budgets and in my budgets, you will see quite different approaches to the global budgets in the field of education, compared with the budgeting of the arts and culture sector, where we are very heavy with quantifications and where we are trying to do so, often very vehemently criticized. That is, we are going – I am saying this very openly and clearly, because it is consciously so too – carefully into the new budget account and we want to deepen it and accept the challenge. To the chapter on education – I can then speak a little later on on on the subject of art and culture a second time –: First of all, I can only confirm what you said, Mr Rosenkranz, and what Mrs Haubner also said: 80 percent of the budget is staff expenditure. But that will not change either. So – if I can express this in the economic language now – school is a service company. There will always be 80 percent staff expenditure. In comparison, I see the administrative costs in a narrow sense as quite moderate and would like to mention, as special budget items, structural investments – we have also talked about this in the Committee on Budgets –: € 620 million. This position also includes the BIG-Mites, the refinancing of investments in the federal school sector. It is crucial that we invest in education, but, as I am very much with you, Mr Walser, the momentum that is being invested is not enough, but we also need to ensure that every investment is linked to innovation, which means that we also have a goal and an impact. And what's especially dear to me – and I think that's one of the biggest challenges – is that we succeed gradually – I am already aware that this is a gradual process, but we have to succeed gradually – to transfer more responsibility to the school management. [[He proposed that the Court should reply as follows: Markowitz.]] What does “more responsibility to the school management ” mean? – More responsibility to the school board is that there has to be scope for decision, because only when I open a decision-making space can decisions be made and then people are actually responsible. And there we have to go! That is to say, a piece away from the culture of regulation, to agreements, to scope for action under clear conditions. I see this claim very strongly also in the current discussion of all-day school forms, and – I am right for Mrs Haubner to a hundred percent – I too was overwhelmed by the dynamic that has suddenly arisen in the discussion, because the basic decisions have been taken in Loipersdorf and Semmering, and I have just mentioned in the Committee on Budgets just a few days ago exactly the points that require a dynamic expansion campaign: Planning security for the mayors and mayors – that is, a longer period of planning security for the activities of the investment – and if we want more places, we need higher budgets. This is quite right that the half-day school – I can take over your concept immediately – costs more money compared to the day school. [[Abg. Amon: Reverse, right?]] I recently said in an interview that you do not need to have studied in Harvard, but that is very easy to understand. And that is why we need these conditions, and the framework conditions need, above all, the school-holders – these are the mayors and mayors – and we need to inform parents about this possibility. And one thing is clear: If the decision to the school is made in the restricted form all day long, then all parents must say yes, because then the whole class must be with it. Then: We can't do this organizationally, that maybe at 1 p.m. individual children will do this at 3 p.m. and at 3 p.m. In the restricted form of the whole day, the commitment of the parents is needed. And if that is given, if it succeeds when good concepts are developed at the site, then it comes about. I can understand very well that one wants to take the decision of the parents into account, I think this is even a prerequisite. Personally, I wouldn't force it now to give up on the two-thirds agreement of the teachers. From my point of view, the parents' decision should be sufficient, but it will be seen in the course of the talks. It is important that we step by step take one step at a time. And – I can repeat – the mayors are our allies, because having a good first-class school in the village is the nonplusultra for every mayor: Satisfied citizens are satisfied voters, satisfied citizens are satisfied voters. And so many business settlements have already come about because the school infrastructure in the municipality, in the district was good. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] I would also like to stress a particular advantage of the Austrian education system at this point, it is the vocational education and training system. We are being praised throughout Europe for this model, there is hardly any EU Council of Ministers meeting, where not colleagues come to me to look at this model. We must continue to invest in these types of schools, demand is very high. Therefore, much of the investment in the construction sector is going on in terms of enlargement, also in this school sector – and of course, to say so, in general, in the schools in the Federal Schools throughout Austria. To stress one thing is also important to me: All young people who visit our schools today – no matter where they come from, no matter what language is spoken at home – all students in 15, in 20 years determine the prosperity of our country, the social peace in our country. We must therefore invest in education, and we must invest in language promotion, because language and knowledge of German language are the key to educational success in our country – and therefore: compulsory kindergarten year. I am in favour of discussing over a second year. And I believe that we must or should be particularly concerned with focal schools, with school locations located in socially disadvantaged districts, regions, districts, where the challenges are often particularly great. If we focus on individualization, personal promotion on the one hand, we must also take greater account of the socio-economic background of school locations in the future. In this direction, the further development of the school must also go. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] One point I would also like to mention on the subject of school: Especially the cooperation and trust between parents, students and teachers is particularly important in school. Good performance needs a broad basis. Good performance, however, also needs a good working environment, and I therefore think it is particularly important that we take account of our actions – and I am thinking now also of the New Middle School – of also mandatory parent-teacher-teacher-controversies again and again, because school must ultimately be recognized and performed as a common task. In the context of the government clause – which we have not yet talked about in this context – an important political decision has been made from my point of view, namely on pedagogical education NEW. I really think it makes sense that in the field of educational education we now want to switch to a four-year Bachelor's training, that there should also be permeability for elementary education, by providing opportunities for those students who have completed BAKIP who are interested in tertiary education as a beginner, because we lose up to 80 percent of the BAKIP graduates, because they are then finally active in other fields of work or take other training paths. I am also pleased that there is an agreement on one to two years of master training and the induction phase. We will prepare the relevant legislative texts very quickly in this regard. Novelles are necessary at the educational universities, but also at the universities. Our goal is that before Christmas the law package “Pedagogical Education NEW” will be reviewed with all the details so that we can then discuss and prepare the parliamentary decisions here in spring. I also have the ninth level on the agenda, as well as the right to serve and pay. Mr Walser, you are right, but it is not in my own power and responsibility, because it needs a group solution, because it needs the common determination. [[Abg. Dr. Walser: I know!]] [[Abg. Dr. Walser: BZÖ!]] I can only point this out time and again. I'm just saying calmly: 2009; I know what I'm talking about. Ladies and gentlemen! I look forward to a constructive cooperation in 2013. This budget is a good basis for this. All legally fixed decisions are illustrated in it. And I would like to thank, after I know that this time this was a special effort for our employees, especially our budget section, which has prepared this change in a professional way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e31829	Mrs Magnette has now come to speak. Rudas. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e31850	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I think it is undisputed that in recent decades not as much has happened in the field of education as during your time as head of department, Mrs. Minister. They are responsible for the New Secondary School, for teaching with Matura, for reducing the maximum number of students and many other things. And there you choose your own ways. The colleague, Mr Haubner, said earlier that – and I agree here – school politics should not be party policy and it was about what was best for the child. - I'm here with you. But let's not pretend it doesn't have something to do with ideology. That's not bad either. We are different parties and we also have different ideologies, and we should not contribute to depoliticization, but rather put these different ideologies on the table. The journalist Jungwirth wrote today in connection with the discussion about the whole day school in the “Small Newspaper” that the fear was that this was a “attack against the old bourgeois family idylle”, “as a result the children press the school bench the morning, then gather with the parents around the lunch table for a meal and in the afternoon they are busy with house exercises and piano games.” These different ideologies and ideas exist. And we Social Democrats say: Time has changed, it's not like this anymore! [[Abg. May. Instinct: It's still like that!]] The reality of life and the needs of parents look different. [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] But above all, what children need looks different. And there is a particular point in developing all day schools, where there is also limited teaching and there is no need for storage time. And why not learn piano games in a school? Why should not the school be re-helped in the afternoon? [[Abg. Dr. Walser: The evaluation is over!]] Why should not sports take place in school in the afternoon? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Amon.]] Mr Amon, it's not about having to do it, it's about being allowed. But I'm telling you: According to the experience with the New Middle School and the method that Claudia Schmied uses – that is, simply show that it works better – we are very soon also wanting. The majority of parents want restricted lessons and schools all day long. [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: And every folk school has 20 pianos!]] And we'll prove that, and that's why I'm here with you: when you're allowed! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e31931	Mr Markowitz has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e31953	God, Mr President! Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Mrs Minister, you have already spoken about things correctly, but I have to say: I very much appreciate you, but I assume you just overlooked it today that we are now six parties in the House. I would be very pleased if you made your speech the next time the last Member spoke in the first round, because then you could also replicate to all parties. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz.]] Please? – Yes, but it is still Usus in this House, Mr Commissioner, I think you know that. In the future, I am convinced that the Minister will of course do so. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Amon.]] Mrs. Minister, you have a budget of € 8.5 million. That's about 200 million more. But most of it goes, as you know, for the bureaucracy et cetera on it. You mentioned something essential that I can quite agree with, namely that we also have to do something about the headmasters. I'll give you all right. There has to be some sort of management to ensure that a school principal really has certain competences, including his own employees, the teachers. We do not want the party book to be decisive, but we want the really best and most trained teachers for our children – and that in all areas. In recent years, it has always been so that we have limited the school hours immediately when it came to sports, when it came to religion, or when it came to languages. So to speak, it was pulled down. I would like us to do it in such a way that the best of the best really do the training. One important point, Mrs. Minister, with the big broking you are responsible for is the old teacher system: The salaries for which 80 percent of the budget is on top belong completely reformed. You rightly addressed it in 2009. I am here with you, when you say that we have to deal with it again, that we have to consider how we can put the teacher's call back into the right light, that we have to think about how we can achieve that teacher becomes a prestigious profession again. Another question is: What do we do together so that the salary system does not work in such a way that a teacher earns little at the beginning and then the most shortly before the pension? I am in favour of the fact that, based on ideologies and values, a young teacher who has chosen the teacher's profession because he wants to teach young people and children something, is also paid accordingly. I think we can find a partner in you, Mrs. Minister. We would also like this to be the case for the ÖVP in the future. We should all sit at a table and think about how we deal with this problem. [[Abg. May. Josef Auer: At that time you have slandered over the teachers, as!]] - When? That is what you are looking for, Mr Colleague back there, you bring this speech down here and then you tell me when I've slandered about the teachers! We have been sitting in the committee together, and we have always said what we think from the teachers that they really do something big, but their performance should be paid accordingly. That's what I'm saying now! It has not changed at all. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] I would like to see myself in the future – I am speaking specifically to the ÖVP – that this is really discussed objectively. I do not want to make a party policy here, because our children and our young people are really at our heart, and you will understand that with such a large budget you really want to get the most and the best out. We have heard it before, Mrs Minister, that, when it comes to teaching, the control of basic accounting types is still a problem. That is exactly where we have to start when it comes to training! [[Abg. Petzner: If you say “most and best” everywhere and don’t know what the most and the best is! Would you put that into practice?]] Of course, Mr Petzner. – So, the best thing for our children is clearly a well-founded education. And they are the best teachers who really deal with their task with dedication. It is the young teachers who are well paid, Mr Petzner, and not any party-politically motivated teachers who simply take up their duties. No, we want proper management. We want the director to be able to choose the teacher himself. We want a regulation according to the principle of performance, quite clearly: If a teacher does not perform his performance, then there must be consequences. But I thank you very much for the hölzl. If you get a hölzl thrown, you have to pick it up. I learned that from Herbert Scheibner. I am really grateful for this, because so my proposals could be filled out with concrete content. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e32031	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Fuhrmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e32053	Mr President. Mrs Bundesminister, you are not only responsible for the teaching budget, but you are also responsible for the budget for art and culture. We are pleased to note today that the budget for art and culture can be kept stable, as a comparison with the budgets of recent years shows. I notice: 442,6 million € are available for art and culture in Austria. This is 0.59 percent in relation to total expenditure. This is a very good cut if we compare this with other European countries. But precisely because the cultural and art budget is kept stable in Austria, even in times like this, it is our political responsibility to ensure that these funds are also used responsibly and well. If you look at current Court of Auditors reports, especially those recently published about the events at the MAK, you already have to find out: Such abuses as they have occurred – according to rumors, the former director would have used the museum for private purposes and would have had to be transferred to his own pocket. The Court of Auditors even points out that countless exhibits are no longer visible today and that visitors may also have been beautiful in the MAK. All of this, Mrs Federal Minister, I believe you agree, is a critical question. Our political responsibility is also to put all the levers in motion in the sense of public governance, that such events can no longer take place, that we know how to prevent this from happening on the part of politics. As a central goal of action in cultural policy, you have called art mediation. This means that – and this is to be supported – you are primarily concerned with enabling the general population to have easy access to art and culture. In this sense, the free entry you have introduced for young people under the age of 19 will be continued. This is to be welcomed in principle, because, as a comparison shows, in 2010 there were around 900 000 young people who used Austrian museums, while one year earlier, 2009, when there was no free entry, there were 718 000 young people. This is a significant increase. However, there is a wormhead drop: In 2011, this number of visitors fell by 6.9 percent. That is to say, it is important to consider further measures in the sense of art mediation. I would like to highlight positively developments around the Chamber of Art. ==References== ==References====External links== In 2011, €7.9 million was available from the Ministry. I would also like to highlight the situation around the Bundestheater. We have carried out an evaluation, a five-year plan of action. ................................................................................................................................................................ The first year is already over. According to my information, the target was more than exceeded in the first year. That is, the situation is very positive. But this also applies to keeping an eye on the staff costs in the federal museums, as is the case with the universities. However, this saving has not been possible in the context of the evaluation. Therefore, additional € 4.5 million from your department, Mrs Minister, will be taken into your hands in order to reduce staff costs. I think that is a good and right measure. I think it is equally good and positive that – and we have retained this in the government agreement – the Austrian Film Institute also gets more support, namely by €3.43 million. In other words, the film promotion will be €20 million in the future. That's positive. And Mr Mitterlehner has already announced that FISA funding will continue. For the arts and culture budget, where perhaps a little less ideologically colored is discussed than is the case in the field of education, I can say: We're on a good path! The government programme has been completed to two thirds. In this sense, Mrs Bundesminister, I would like to thank you for your good cooperation.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e32117	Next speaker: Mrs Mühlberghuber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e32138	Mr President. Dear Mrs Bun-desminister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! In principle, we are for day-to-day schools, provided that the choice of parents is a priority. It must remain free to parents and families whether they want to care for their children or whether they want to care for them at home, because parents actually know best where their children feel comfortable. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] However, we see a problem in the equipment of our schools. In the majority of Austrian schools, the infrastructure is not designed for full-day care. In schools there are no kitchens, dining rooms, leisure facilities, sports facilities, retreats. Children also need a break during the day where they can retreat where they can rest. But most of the time the school structure cannot offer. But we see the main problem in the budgets for the planned expansion by the communities as a schoolkeeper. The massively indebted communities will not be able to finance this, because the relevant Article 15a agreement, according to which the federal government provides an incentive funding for the expansion of school day care, expires in 2014. Now to the New Secondary School a few remarks. It was initially only a school attempt, and since the school year 2012/2013 it has been part of the regular education system and is expected to replace the traditional primary school by 2018/2019. It flows disproportionately much money into the New Middle School. In our opinion, the AHS should be promoted to the same extent as the New Secondary School. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] To this end, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e32211	The application which has just been submitted will be negotiated. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e32265	Next speaker: Mr Riepl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e32286	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! I think it is appropriate to say thank you once to all our dedicated teachers – whether they are working in schools, in primary schools, in vocational schools, in vocational schools or in general higher schools. I think this should be said once in the course of such a budget debate. I want to do this. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The focus of education policy is on the student, the student – I believe that this has already been indicated a few times today – and the “customers” of the school – customers clearly under quotation marks – are just the children and the parents. It is therefore particularly important to take into account, in all the reform steps, that their wishes and expectations are also accepted and supported by the school accordingly. That is true, even if this unfortunately does not always fit everyone in our Republic, or if not everyone does. In the 2013 budget, which has already been said, we spend much more than €8 billion on our teaching budget, on our schools, on the education of our young people and children. I would like to stress that this is more than this year. I believe that this is also a good sign, because it is important and necessary not to save accordingly on education in times when every euro has to be turned twice. The money will arrive in the classrooms. We all know that smaller classes cost more money, of course. More teachers are needed, construction investments continue to be made. Thank you very much, Mrs. Federal Minister. A realgymnasium in Vienna, in my constituency in Ottakring, is currently being rebuilt. A rehabilitation budget of € 15 million is planned for this purpose. So it's going a little further. I also believe that in the case of new forms of school, the benefits are that the tasks are done in the school. So the house is a story, the job is to be done in school. We need less external remedial assistance, which involves cost savings and cost relief for the parents. So all of this, I think, is to be seen positively, also in connection with the discussion on this budget. Finally, what I would like to see as particularly positive is that in the next few weeks and months, we will have a discussion on the re-enactment of education qualifications, for example, with the help of vocational schools, and I assume that next year we will be able to make the decision here in Parliament. A gap in post-graduate qualifications, particularly in the field of vocational education and apprenticeships, will become true and possible, and I believe that this will and may be a further step in the reform of education. In this sense, I believe, we are on a good path in education with you, Mrs Federal Minister, but we are far from the goal.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e32344	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Dr. Zinggl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e32365	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I now switch, like Mr Fuhrmann, to cultural policy and can understand very well, Mrs Minister, that you want to improve the budget of the Bundestheater due to the cost increases, especially in the personnel sector, with an additional salary, and I think we all agree that the federal institutions should also be financially equipped so that they function properly. But – and I have been pointing this out for several years now – at whose cost is that done? While the large, representative Sauriers are constantly getting inflation paid off, their budgets are valorised, everyone else remains on the track. Budgets, Mrs Minister – we all know – are figures of cast policy. When we look at these figures and when we compare them for years, we see that the sheer is increasingly disparate and that the budgets of all the small institutions, the medium-sized institutions, but also the scholarships, the projects, so whatever the diversity of culture in this country is, have not been able to adapt for decades and have thus been reduced in real terms. What happens if the fixed costs rise, but at the same time there is no adjustment? There are several possibilities: One must close, others reduce their output, or the quality is reduced. Very common – in most cases this is the case – the institutions react with increasing self-exploitation. That's what we're going to experience more and more. Not for nothing, Mrs Minister, do you refuse the mandate of Parliament to have a study carried out on working conditions in the cultural institutions, because you know exactly what is going on there. They know the damage that is done here and which is increasing from year to year in terms of cultural diversity and balance, because without money, of course, it is being reduced here. But let's take a closer look at the Bundestheater. The evaluation has resulted in an optimization potential of €12.4 million. To date, although we have not been faced with this evaluation study by the public, we do not know exactly what can actually be optimised, but if you now tell us in the Committee on Culture that the balance sheet could at least be improved by 7.7 million in the last year, I just wonder one thing: How could it actually happen that with so many staff in the federal theatres – but now I mean not only the many cultural people working there, but also the 40 to 50 supervisory councils – I mean I couldn't recognize this potential before? Why did all of these tips have to come from outside so that additional millions of people in just one year could be used in sponsoring, renting, TV broadcasts? You know, Mrs Bundesminister, that the Federal Theatre Organisation Act is an additional financing to the condition of an economic and economical development and also to the consideration of all the rationalization possibilities which it offers. Give it up, tie it up. Only then may such additional financing be approved and disbursed. Now, 7.7 million people have been lurked by savings on the one hand and additional revenue on the other – and still another 4.5 million euros would be needed? This would then be a total need of €12.2 million from 2011 to 2012. Ladies and gentlemen, that's 8 percent of the basic salary. So this cannot result in an increase in wages or inflation, which cannot be expected. If there had been no optimization potential, Mrs. Minister – it could have been that it had not been discovered or that there would have been none at all – would you have actually increased the amount for the Bundestheater by €12.2 million? So that's what I'd have looked at! This money is not there – at least it is so propagated in the public. The exclusion of the Federal Museums – that is my conclusion from the whole – certainly has many advantages, but it also has disadvantages. They show themselves again and again. This concerns transparency, which concerns control, especially when it comes to the conduct at the federal theatres, which are very well hidden in a holding. The People's Procuratorate cannot examine whether the parliamentarians can ask their questions, but do not get any answers. In one word: This is where a reconstruction of democracy takes place. Public funds are used and spent excluding the public. But now we know that the state remains – no matter what “dresser” it covers – and that means that it can happen sometime that despite Mystery shows up any painting, as we have just experienced at the MAK – Mr Fuhrmann mentioned it. We experience this again and again in other institutions, for example at the Salzburg Festival, and this could occur sometime at the Bundestheaters. And if you, Mrs Minister, are talking about criminal energies against which you can basically do nothing, then I am telling you that you can do something. There is a lack of transparency and control, which makes this abuse possible at all. Again: The Bundestheater and museums must be equipped accordingly, that is quite clear. But if all the institutions are needed to save, because supposedly there is no money, then, I would say, the great ones have to start with it first, because there can also most be saved. And since we're just on the subject of saving: How do you explain the extra €8 million for the Festival in Erl? It may be that they haven't grown on your shit, that may be, but you still have to answer it. How do you account for all the many you say that they cannot claim budget increases again? How do you explain this to them? This is a blow to the face when they have had to get out with their wages as employees for decades, despite rising fixed costs. That is what we are now in terms of the objectives of action. You have indicated in your statements on the budget in education that you have not yet been particularly wide-ranging in culture. They have set a single goal of action: the anchoring of art and culture in society. I have already pointed out in the Committee that this cannot be a significant objective, because it is already written in the Art Promotion Act and also in the Government Agreement. That is, for the coming year you have undertaken to comply with the laws, which cannot be called very ambitious. In any case, you can't tell us more clearly, That you don't want to improve anything. They have meant my criticism, we can put together in the future and jointly formulate these objectives of impact. It's very nice of you that you offer this to us. Why didn't you offer us that before? We would have known something about goals, and we would have liked to mention the improvement of the social situation of artists in Austria as a goal. You know that. This is indeed a task of cultural policy, and that is not yet linked to quantification, as you have said at first, but it is simply an objective that many are called as the only or at least primary objective in cultural policy. This is what many people expect from cultural policy, and unfortunately it will not be solved. Why? - Because you, Mrs. Minister, say you can't afford it. They say it's a social problem, just as if it were God-given. As a Social Democratic, you say that is a social problem that you cannot solve. But I say you can solve this very well. We have also submitted an own-initiative proposal, which will help you to see very well that the disastrous social situation can be improved. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I am saving myself now from addressing the detailed budgets and the framework agreements, because I believe that they are not only sloppy, but also because the measures that lead to them are not appropriate. I might just like to mention a little detail: If you are talking about improving the framework conditions in relation to finance, people and cultural conditions, and as a measure indicate the continuation of free entry for young people into the federal museums, then I must honestly say that one does not fit with the other. In response to my brief budget question, you have answered me. This has to do with the fact that cultural participation is improved. And I can tell you: Yes, that is true, but that has nothing to do with improving the environment. So everything very, very sloppy; They formulate any goals, formulate any measures. And if you ask what it looks like with the percentages, how much percent more than free admissions are to be increased, then I get as an answer, from 49.9% to 51.2 percent. So that's a salmon number. But we asked further: How does that look in absolute numbers? And then, Mrs. Minister, answer me, the absolute figures remain constant from 2011 to 2012. However, we know – Mr Fuhrmann has already said that – that despite the free entry from 2010 to 2011, the number of visitors in the museums has fallen. That is to say, you want to know as a target the maintenance of the decline from 2010 to 2011. I can only say to you: You are in the best way to achieve this goal! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e32469	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Huainigg. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e32491	Mr President. Minister! High house! Both the integration classes and the special school classes complain on budget scarcity and resource shortage. But you have to question: Who attends the special school? – Many parents of disabled children give their children into an integration class. Only 1 per cent of students who are really disabled attend a special school, but 3 per cent of all pupils in Tyrol and up to 6 per cent in Vienna attend a special school. The difference is explained quickly. The proportion of migrant children is very high, namely 28 percent. That's twice as much as the regular school. There is a real need for action here, because only because someone has a language deficit can he not be admitted to the special school! – although this seems to be common practice. There's a different promotion. There is a need for language support instead of special education, because with a special school degree you have very few professional perspectives. We are wasting talents that are lost on the labour market. Next week, we have a Subcommittee of the Education Committee on Special Education, and I would like to ask you that we also formulate measures to find a solution here so that children with migration backgrounds can simply go to a normal regular school. And I would like to address a second topic, namely the education of teachers Newly. I am in favour of every new teacher who is trained having basic knowledge in integration and inclusion education, because these are methods that can be applied to every student who is more in demand today than ever before. This is about applying new teaching methods, new teaching materials, open teaching, group dynamic work. That's what the school needs. [[President Dr. Graf takes over the chairmanship.]] I would ask you, Mrs Minister, to take this into account in the negotiations and in the draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e32545	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Höbart. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e32566	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! High house! Of course, you have to address certain things clearly and put the cards on the table so that something moves. You have told in your replica about some things that have led you in the way, but just as well as opposition, we have the right to take a closer look at the education system. Finally, the educational abuse is known in our Republic. It also does nothing if we make great comparisons with other countries again. It also does nothing when the so-called jubile press comes to the speaker's desk and approves everything and says everything is fine. In fact, I would like to quote the “profile” of last week: The Republic of Austria is “on half masts” and is“ only medium-sized in business and education today”. That's a fact. This can be seen with some facts. There is, for example, the so-called welfare ranking of a London Institute in which the areas of education, health, government quality – of course, government quality would have to be specifically illuminated, as it looks very bad – and the social sector is summarized. Austria has also slid down from 14th place to 16th place, and thus only more in the EU's middle field. I have already mentioned it: The main reason is that there is a lack of education. ‘profile’ continues to write: ‘The Great Debakel’. I would like to remind you: In Pisa 2009, only Bulgaria and Romania were behind Austria for reading. According to a GEM study already quoted by Dr. Walter Rosenkranz, where creativity and entrepreneurship were tested – and for themselves a very important combination for the future – Austria is in the back. This is perhaps due to the very marked mentality of officials in this Republic. That could be, I'd like to put this in the room. Of course, there is also the specialist Salcher, who says schools in Austria have consistently poor quality and also far-reaching pupils. There we are again with the students of people with migration background, we cannot discuss that away. Salcher says: “There, far-reaching students meet bad teachers and lazy directors” – bringing the system to the fore in some areas. He further notes that the third generation of immigrants speaks worse German than the second – also a fact. As a Liberal Group, we would of course be very interested in what you intend to do here, to change here. For this reason, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I think Secretary of State for Integration In short, this motion for a resolution will be accepted immediately. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grandruck.]] [[Abg. Tamandl: This is not possible by constitutional law!]] Mrs. Schmied, you have previously rightly praised the higher education schools. In fact, it is the case that the BHS at European level withstands every comparison. At the end of my speech, I would also like to point out a very important issue which the FPÖ recently introduced as a petition to the National Council, which was our Norbert Hofer. We hope that you will support this as a whole, namely that HTL engineers in the national qualification framework will finally be classified in step six. This is the same classification as a Bachelor. We can also justify this according to how the Association of Austrian Engineers has been doing for years. Finally, we are talking about 200 000 service providers in our society, who enjoy an excellent reputation in the economy. Everyone knows that engineering training takes place for five years specifically at a higher technical training institution and is also required to demonstrate professional professional practice for three years. Of course, it speaks for itself – I just mentioned it – that the Austrian engineers in the economy have enjoyed an excellent reputation for decades. Therefore, our appeal: Let us finally give this Austrian training, in an international comparison, its due recognition! Mrs Minister, we hope for your support in this petition! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e32645	The request just submitted is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e32712	Next speaker: Mrs Ablinger. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e32734	Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Mr President. To return to the cultural area and to the public financing of art and culture, which we support with a total of € 443 million: It is a central task of the state to promote art and culture, because the freedom of art and the public financing of art depend on each other and are closely linked. This is why I particularly emphasize this in your direction, Mrs. Untergetter, because I had to question your art and cultural understanding in the last few days when I had to read your comments made in the context of a press conference, for example, where you would write about the “spinnet of the left” and the children of the Schickeria and defame artists as “state long-term fellows”. In any case, you will be giving an account of what your understanding of cultural policy is. In principle, it is like this: All those who receive public funding as artists are at least state artists and can stand out from the state. I definitely reject this understanding. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Our understanding is different, our understanding is one of respect for artists, respect for their work, but also respect for their often difficult situation, to act alone against resistance, to have to stand against him and to make the artistic idea break through. They need support for that. Art is certainly not always soft. She sometimes stirs up, she can also disturb and confuse, I think, but at least she's not backboneless. If you, Mrs Unterlander, are attacking the Nobel Prize-winner Elfriede Jelinek in the last few days – You have said this completely wrong – for decades, you have not sought promotion, a woman who is rightly awarded regularly for her stage pieces, then I suspect that you have an art understanding that then evaluates whether and how someone expresses himself politically. This is an attitude I definitely reject. In your logic, artists who have the position of interfering in a public discourse are obviously opposed in your understanding also artistically. Well, that's how you explain it. They obviously see art-makers who receive public funding, so that they also view it as speechless and careless. We definitely reject that. Our artistic understanding refers to the fact that artists are entitled to recognition, and that is to say, honor, that is, respect, that is, money. [[Call the FPÖ:State artist is called that!]] This is our commitment to public funding, which we will decide today, with many different projects. Among other things, there are €27 million for regional cultural activities and initiatives. We are increasing the funding for regional cultural programmes. We have reserved €6 million for the promotion of young people, and contemporary art is also promoted, for example with the award of the outstanding artist award, which also serves to give contemporary art a stage to present them. I would like to address one more point, namely the increase in funds for the Austrian Film Institute. My thanks to the Minister, I am very glad that with this increase of 3.4 million to 20 million, we will be able to meet the commitments and give the Austrian film a chance to grow even stronger. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I would like to address something in this context. Two weeks ago, the festivals merged and founded a joint forum, the Forum of Austrian Film Festivals, and pointed out that the film festivals are very important for the Austrian film. They have shown that they have about 200,000 visitors a year that 1 800 films that may not be in the cinemas would not exist. They thus have a function that Hans Hurch called attention generation. This is what the Austrian film owes to the festivals. However, such festivals also have certain financing difficulties, and I think that in future we should consider how we can make more money available to the film festivals because they are an essential part of film promotion. At the end – I repeat –: Art, in any case, does not need permission, as it is so beautiful in an artistic intervention, but what it needs is opportunities, means, spaces and respect. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e32791	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Unspoiled. 6 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e32813	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We liberals welcome the fact that there is enough money for art and culture. We are also pleased that the funds have not been reduced. Mrs. Minister, you will always be able to support us when the grant of subsidies goes to support the large cultural institutions, such as our theatres, the opera houses, the large festivals, the festivals, all that makes up Austria, what the large country of culture is Austria. This also includes the large educational institutions for our youth. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] However, I will always vote as an opposition politician when it comes to showing maladministration. In the context of the budget debate, I consider it my duty to look in detail at where the funds are going. Here, for example, in the literature sector, the same persons, such as – and I say it again – Elfriede Jelinek, Robert Menasse, Thomas Glavinic, are generously promoted. Of course, I am pleased when Austrian authors are observed abroad and are also financially successful. But all the more amazing it is then when just these successful authors are permanent scholarships, and when they are, so to speak, pragmatized grant recipients. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenecker: Awesome!]] [[Abg. Oils: Incredible!]] That is why, Mrs Ablinger, it is not at all clear that these authors are used year after year, without generating themselves, at the expense of the general public. I don't think that's right. I can't do that, Mrs. Colleague! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It is not to be seen that an arfluent and successful author like Robert Menasse receives over €300 000 of tax money over years. [[Abg. New builder: And there is no money for the young artists!]] I can't. While a single mother has to buy a computer for her child, for example, because one needs it in school these days, our big state artist gets a computer gifted. I can't do that! And if you don't understand, I'm sorry. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Elfriede Jelinek – Nobel Prize-winner, former Communist – claims that there are no subsidies in Austria and that only taxes can be paid. In the art report – you all know the art report, you can all read it – there are numerous posts in relation to it. [[Abg. Kickl: Aha!]] There are countless translation grants for various works by Mrs. Jelinek. Here, every year, money is automatically distributed instead of giving young, talented literature money. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ablinger: Incredible!]] The most recent scandals in the cultural industry also prove that there are now “shatters” – that is, in Austria – that are being infested for decades. If the former director of the Museum of Applied Art Peter Noever and the former director of the Wiener Kunsthalle Gerald Matt were not overcome about their, I must say, boundless pride and their more than questionable conduct, they would continue – and I am now consciously using the word – to be the children of the Social Democrats. You have to say that, too, Mrs. Colleague! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] A raw report by the Court of Auditors is currently reminding us of the blossoms of domestic cultural policy. The allegations against Peter Noever were enough to have him released a year ago. He financed, we all know, opulent birthday celebrations for his mother, and he should also have accompanied business trips from the workforce with expensive rental limousines. The Court of Auditors submits further hard facts: It has been said that of the already lean 185,000 visitors to the museum – we all know: the last place at all museums – half came in over the staff entrance and didn't buy a ticket at all. So I beg you, Mrs Ablinger, I just can't do that. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The cost of travel rose by 785 percent. Noever himself was on average 79 days a year abroad since 2001. The testers do not count on that – I do not claim it. The Scandale Noever and Matt may serve as proof of how the subsidy grant mechanism is going to end. It is true that artists are generously served if they withdraw through the opposition if necessary. We've been allowed to pursue that often enough. As further proof of ideologically controlled money, all the associations that fuel the multi-culti-agitation have to be mentioned. If I take the WUK alone: An institution subsidized in Vienna with an incredible €1.3 million must also receive €240 000 from our ministry. At present, the WUK is the base station for hundreds of projects, groups, initiatives that deal mainly with multicultural matters and other radical actions. The only thing to think about is the art action in which Muslim women urinate on posters in the wells in front of the Karlskirche. While on the one hand millions of money is spent on multicultural matters, for example, the Volkskundemuseum, which at least presents our home, our own folklore, is systematically starved at €400 000. That's not all right, Mrs. Minister! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] At the planned Museum Neu project, this museum is to be dissolved in Europe uniquely and truly significantly at the Volkskundemuseum. Ladies and gentlemen, we need an overview of the grant of subsidies, since I have to be right for my green colleague, Mr Zinggl, he has said that today. I would therefore like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mrs. Minister, please take our constructive criticism to heart! Be sure to give the money justly! Don't give up the ideologically controlled allocation! Do not use the funds for the “shatters” – I say again – for the rivers, but for our gifted youth! I conclude my speech as always with the words: The preservation of our identity is the subject of our conscience.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e32984	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e33061	Next speaker: Mrs Franz. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e33082	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! High house! I'll be back to the topic of education. To keep our society competitive, we need education. That is why, in this budget, investment in the future in education, science and research will also have significantly greater resources. If there is a constant discussion of educational downtime and it is said that there is nothing going on, then I would like to say that our educational reform is under way. This is also reflected in our budget. For example, € 8.5 billion will be reserved in the budget for education, art and culture this year. That's exactly 186 million €, and you can't say there's a standstill. The focus here is on the promotion of the language of children, the reduction of the maximum number of students, the expansion of the New Secondary School and also the provision of day care. Speaking of day care. I remind you: As early as 2006, we decided that in the respective school at the beginning of the school, the need for day care is asked. If there are twelve to 15 children coming together, then there is a group, then day care is to be set up; and if the school partnership agrees that restricted instruction should take place, then that must also be set up. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I am concerned that day care is clearly extended, but I think it is important that there is freedom of choice here and that the school partnership will not pass. It is also my concern to mention the education of educators. I am pleased that this one comes on track, that the key points were decided at the last time of the ruling clause; for good school begins with the people acting, and that is now the teachers. This is where performance has to be achieved, and Competition has to have space, creativity and independent thinking must be promoted in education. So we need the best, the most motivated, the most creative educators and educators, and this education is a new important step. However, we also need a modern and coordinated right of service, which makes the teaching profession attractive. Perhaps then we will also succeed in bringing more men into this profession and increasing the reputation and appreciation of educators and educators. With this budget we are on the right track, because investment in children is investment in the future. They are the foundation for our prosperity in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e33139	Mrs Federal Minister Dr. Schmied spoke on a point of view. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e33161	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Before I come to the art and culture budget, I would also like to add to my remarks on the part of education. My praise or international praise for the vocational schools refers both to middle and higher schools and to dual education. I would just like to emphasize this very much. I am very pleased that the vocational schools have now been opened, in that we will no longer have two classes – extraordinary students and ordinary students. I would particularly like to thank Mr Riepl, who has been very active in this project over the last one and a half years. Now we have brought this project to such an extent that the legal basis is in review. For me, this is a completion of an overall package – from teaching with Matura to re-enactment of compulsory school degrees, re-enactment of basic education to vocational schooling. I believe that this is a very important and right measure for a group of people who deserve the support, appreciation, respect, also on the part of public authorities and the public education system. That's what I wanted to add. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Now I can add a few additional comments to the art and culture section. One thing is very important to me, and I look very much at it once again in the direction of Mr Zinggl. Mr Zinggl, I think that budgets and budgetary developments should always be considered in the light of general economic developments. The fact that we are in common – and with “joint” I now mean, above all, the government parties, the speakers of the two government parties, Sonja Ablinger, Mrs Fuhrmann and me – have succeeded in averting any reduction in art and culture in the last few years, requires a great deal of effort, because this is a far-reaching issue of discretion expenditure. That we have even succeeded in achieving budget increases, I appreciate – and I stress this once again – under the given framework conditions as a success, even though I look into other European countries. This is very, very important. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The total budget is rounded in 2013 to € 443 million. At this point and at the beginning of further details, I am also important – there I join Sonja Ablinger and want to emphasize this –: The freedom of art is of great value to us. [[Congratulation with SPÖ and ÖVP as well as the Abg. May. Unspoiled.]] I reject all the tendencies that I want to evaluate individually, including individual artists, in their positions. I never want a ministry of good taste or great visitor quotas. The freedom of art is of great value to us. This also includes public funding of art and culture, and it also includes – even though this may sometimes be a bit difficult in case of a personal criticism, but it is also important then – appreciation and respect for the artists. That seems to me essential. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This seems all the more essential to me – and I recommend a look at the report we have produced on the social situation of artists – as the income situation of many artists is a precarious one. [[Call the FPÖ:Genau!]] We should discuss this situation much more extensively, for unfortunately, precarious employment conditions are no longer only in the artistic field, but that is much more about it. That is why we need other security systems for many professional groups in our country. There is therefore a clear commitment from our side to the responsibility of the state in the promotion of art and culture. This is reflected in the sustainability of the budgets. It is also important to me whenever it is possible to provide planning security. Therefore, there will also be the possibility in 2013 for artists, especially for cultural institutions, for regional cultural initiatives, to enter into multi-annual funding contracts. We are also very concerned about publishing and gallery promotion, the promotion of all art sectors. You, Mrs Unterlander, but also Mrs Fuhrmann, have referred to the need for a secure basic salary for our cultural institutions. We agree on this point. I think this is very, very important, and I believe that Mr Zinggl has not done anything in this area in the period 2000 to 2007. That is, if we want to maintain the programme at the Federal Theatres and the Federal Museums – and for this there is a clear cultural commitment – we have to stand here for secure basic remuneration. As far as investment in the Federal Museums is concerned, I am pleased that we will open the Art Chamber of the Art History Museum in February 2013. The Pathological-Anatomical Collection in the “Narrenturm” – we talked about it in the Cultural Committee – was integrated into the Natural History Museum in 2012 and we will start the renovation work soon. We have set up new funding and scholarship programmes and set priorities in the promotion of young people with a total volume of €6 million; and I am very pleased that the calls for tenders are already running, that these young people can also be continued. In the area of social security, we have included budgets of €1.8 million in our global budget, most of which fall within the social funds of the Literary Mechana, for the writers who are paid €1.16 million. I would just like to mention briefly the "Künstler Social Insurance Fund" at this point. It has succeeded in adapting the grants here annually. This artist social insurance fund as support for industrial insurance has been available since 2001, and up to now around €50 million has been paid for the artists' group. That too, I think, is an effective instrument. Where are budget increases possible for 2013? – Mrs Fuhrmann and Mrs Ablinger have already stressed this. I am also very pleased personally that the government holds its promise, namely € 20 million for film promotion, to be made available to the Austrian Film Institute. Where do we come from? From € 9.6 million. So we managed to increase here from €9.6 million to €20 million at this stage, and that is very, very important. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I am also pleased that we can also provide €500 000 for regional cultural initiatives and regional projects. This increases to € 5.52 million. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] As you have referred to the Erl Festspielhaus, Mr Zinggl, I would like to say once again: I really don't think I'm going to take one against the other, or somehow to counter it. Investments in the Erl Festspielhaus are largely a private commitment to the private foundation of Hazelsteiner, where there is now a co-financing of the public sector, not about re-transmissions. Nobody is taken away in the arts and culture sector. These are additional special investment funds, which have been taught through the Ministry of Finance and which – I stress once again – are being co-financed as a major private initiative. Co-financing is my next keyword. One of my major projects for the year 2013 is to anchor art and culture even more strongly than ever in EU regional development, both in the LEADER projects and in the ERDF, the European Regional Development Fund. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] I think this is very important. This supports and promotes diversity in the regions. I also have a very clear position with regard to the promotion of home affairs. I think regional projects are very important. I would also like to support identity-building programmes, as well as intercultural programmes and projects. Here we would have the opportunity, if co-financing were taken into account by the federal states in the regional planning documents, to also obtain co-financing from the European Union's pots. For the protection of the monument, there are still €35 million of funding available – I have read a press release from Lower Austria today. A focus – Mrs Fuhrmann mentioned him – is in the future, as before, and I hope that more and more schools participate in it, the art communication and cooperation between schools and artists. In addition, I hope that we will be able to complete the comprehensive supply of literature and media to the Austrian population in line with the book development plan next year. From my point of view, Summa summarum are the course for a diverse year of art and culture in 2013. I would like to thank all those who are involved. I look forward to discussions on the objectives of impact, measures, indicators in the Committee on Culture and thank you very much for the ever-estimating cooperation here in the House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e33254	I announce that yesterday in the course of the debate on sub-division 14 by Mr Ing. Westenthaler's application for the introduction of the day-to-day turn-hour has been withdrawn, as there is now a six-party application in this respect. I'm asking for attention. The next speaker was Mr Jury. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e33284	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! High house! It is not quite unknown that my person's mutual appreciation or respect for the Minister is very great, but it is also not quite unknown that we have different socio-political views. However, we are on one side when it comes to the cultural agendas of the Republic, because this budget is already a forward-looking one, when I look at what happens in the field of arts and culture, especially in rural areas. This task, which I hope will be further pursued at European level with regional development, is sometimes also an indicator of this strengthening of the rural area, which is being mistakenly pressured in the face of migration, and it is not easy, for financial reasons, to maintain the whole infrastructure. – So much as an introduction. Mrs Minister, of course I also believe that, as you have said, freedom of art must be respected. This should be the first thing we should write on the flags. But there must also be the freedom of criticism, the freedom to call things when they run out of the row. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] It is important to make this criticism and, of course, to be able to assess it valuelessly. Finally, I would like to thank you once again for this good teaching of the cultural initiatives and for this support of the rural area. The fact that this support is not for nothing is seen, among other things, on the project of the Künstlerstadt Gmünd, 19th century. “Art Point”, our art and cultural cinema. We bring European cinema to the country, we started this year: 50 performances, 50 cinemas, 50 events, utilization: 98 percent. This is the direction in which this cultural work should go in the future. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e33327	Next speaker: Mrs Gessl-Ranftl. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e33350	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Mr State Secretary! It is undisputed that for many years there has been a standstill in education policy, but we are now on a good and very constructive road. It is a way that is characterized by many renewals. The current education system – which we have heard a few times today – focuses on our students. One can very well say with pride that we have implemented a lot since 2007: starting from the New Middle School to smaller classes, school language promotion, teaching with Matura, to building investments that make our schools first-class schools. In order for us to continue our education policies, we need, of course, a reliable budget, and this budget has been increased for 2013. We therefore make a significant contribution to raising our education system. For me, I also welcome the expansion of day care. At least €80 million of offensives are available annually until the 2015/2016 school year. In the 2012/2013 school year, day care places were increased by 7 percent, which is 117,000 more places. We have achieved a lot together so far, and I am sure that we will continue this educational path, but we will continue to be very successful. The big goal is still ahead of us, namely the common school all day long. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e33388	The next speaker was Mr Windholz. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e33409	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! With a budget of 80 per cent staff costs, I think it is only right and reasonable to ask how these resources are actually used. – And with that, I immediately come to a new right of service in connection with a new salary right. It simply raises the question of whether you are going to die on as before or whether you dare to jump to the same amount of living with higher entrance salaries. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! If we want the best as teachers, then there's no way to go. Then one must also have the courage to say that this is not a question for a budget, for a financial year, but one for decades. In the event of an equal amount of living, I would call for the system to be changed as quickly as possible. – So service law reform with salary reform. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] This would also mean a turning away from the biennials. – And then I read in the “Kurier” in an article by Mrs Daniela Kittner, as the government does. There I read that last Friday there was a conversation between the ministers Claudia Schmied, Gabriele Heinisch-Hosekund the Finance Minister Maria Fekter on the question of negotiations with the Teacher Union. – See, “after months” – that’s what the article says; I say for years – the discussion still has no common position on teacher service law. And there were always only three of them. Anxious question: Yes, what will ‘the new builder’ say for one thing or another? My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, the government is ruling in this country! It is, of course, fair and fair to involve the union in negotiations, but there is no veto right! I can only ask the Minister: Government this country and make it You will be free for a new right of service and remuneration for teachers, even if the union should say no! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] From my own experience I know the negotiator Fritz Neugebauer. I can still remember that when it's no longer possible, he says: Yeah, that's all right, and that's gonna come. We'll change that, but please don't do it now, we'll do it next time! – However, he says that year after year. Don't let yourself get hurt! Go new ways! I am very willing to support this new path in this regard, especially in the context of the opposition. This means that I come to the municipalities as a schoolkeeper, i.e. as those who make the biggest financial contributions. From my own experience from my home town Bad Deutsch-Altenburg I can report the following: It has now been completed with a new gym, with rooms for afternoon care for the optimal compatibility of family and profession. And in the run-up to that, so when we started, I had to conduct a closing discussion that was broken by a few, I would say, purely party-politically motivated, ÖVP officials from the fence. I can only say one from this speaker's mouth: Mrs. Minister, that was quite decent! I contacted you in writing and immediately received an answer that made it clear that there was no thought of a closure. – I can only tell you that caused an uncertainty among students, parents and teachers. In particular, in the direction of the EIA, it is said: You should think well if you start something that has the effect. In reality, such projects, such as those carried out by us, will be postponed at least in time, if not completely abandoned. We need legal certainty and therefore we need a reform immediately. I can only encourage the Minister: Put everything in place to carry it out! The “Kurier” article quoted by me makes me look deep. So when it comes to the ÖVP, especially after the teachers' union, it will unfortunately be nothing more with it during this legislative period.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e33497	Next speaker: Mr. Prince. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e33519	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Investment in education is investment in the future. This ensures prosperity and social cohesion in society. Every euro invested in education increases the attractiveness of our country as an economic, employment and research location. It is all the more gratifying that the budget in the field of education can be increased by € 186 million in spite of the need for savings next year. This makes it clear and clear that reforms in the field of education are being rapidly continued. Renewal in the school system is always necessary in order to meet the changes in a society and the changing needs of parents, students and teachers accordingly. In the field of education, it is important to be at the heart of time, so next year the education reform will be implemented in a targeted and responsible manner. With the comprehensive transition of the primary schools towards New Middle School, the further expansion of afternoon care and the improvement of the quality of education, for example with the reduction of the maximum number of students, not only does the taxpayer receive much money, but it is actually used as a guarantee of quality and future. For the People's Party in general, but also for me personally, freedom of choice is an untouchable good. This includes our differentiated school system as well as the discussion on needs- and needs-based afternoon care. However, all day care needs to be provided wherever necessary – this applies to urban as well as rural areas. The decision on the type of care should be left to parents, teachers and students, but care offers are necessary at reasonable distance and in good quality. In a first step, it will be necessary for the Ministry of Education, together with the countries and the municipalities, to draw up a plan that precisely explains the need, then it will not fail to provide the necessary funding. Around 80 percent of the teaching budget is spent on providing motivated and highly qualified teachers in Austria. That's right and important. I would also like to use today's speech and occasion to thank the teachers for their daily commitment in schools, but also for their patience and sensitivity, as well as their high sense of responsibility to our children. All of this is not self-evident, and it is a lot of knowledge, empathy and fingertips to successfully practice this profession. The school cannot take its responsibilities away from the parents. Children need parents who support their training paths accordingly, but who also take their desires, longings and problems seriously.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e33570	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Westenthaler. 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e33591	Mr President. By the way, someone has forgotten a speech; it is located here, written with big letters. [[The speaker takes some leaves from the speaker's mouth and keeps them in height]] It is moving!, is a famous sentence, which is also applicable to the Austrian Parliament today. It is a special pleasure for me that we have achieved something together today, which is not so often the case. Then and when, there is a common request of all parties, but what is certainly happening in this House for the very first time today... – No, it, Parliament, not them. [[State Secretary Mag. She's moving!]] [[State Secretary Mag. Arbitrators: Yes, but the famous sentence is that she is moving!]] – Yes, but Parliament is not her, Mr State Secretary. [[State Secretary Mag. Arbitrators: Yes, yes, but...!]] . I am still talking about Parliament, but it should not fail with the smallness. Please welcome us, Secretary of State, for today's first six-party request in Parliament's history! That is why I am particularly pleased because I made an almost verbatim request yesterday on the basis of an initiative by the BSO, the Federal Sports Organisation, in which I would like to express my warm thanks to you at this point – your President is also sitting in here – as well as to Mr Kleinmann and as they are all called, who have created a signature action concerning the daily turn hour, which has been supported by all the Members of this House – and see, from yesterday on, it was possible to reach a six-party agreement. [[in the direction of the Abg. Dr Wittmann]] I really think this is an excellent action, a great thing, because we all know that we need action in this regard. And you, Mrs Minister, today also receive this backpack from us, this motion for a resolution: because it is simply about mobilising our children and young people, because the figures that are on the table are really terrifying, because they have an impact on top-level sports, where we depend on performance, but also because they are known in broad numbers, such as that we are doing sports because only a quarter of children and young people, and three quarters do not see symptoms such as physical problems, but also concentration, learning problems associated with the lack of movement. This request is important, and therefore I would like to thank my colleagues, Mr Hermann Krist, Mr Johannes Schmuckenschlager, Mr Mario Kunasek, Mr Dieter Brosz and Mr Ing. Robert Lugar, as we have jointly signed this request, and may now submit it: [[Quoted print version removed]] This is a point-by-point request, as has been said, the first six-party request from this House, and therefore, Mrs Minister, please take it seriously! Quickly pull it through! Please give us a model of how we can implement this daily movement! To date, 70 000 Austrians have signed this initiative of the Federal Sports Organisation. This is also a clear and clear signal. I am very, very happy and absolutely delighted that this motion for a resolution has succeeded, so to speak, in formulating it unanimously and also as a clear mission of the National Council, Mrs Minister, to make this unit of action possible for our children and young people. A warm thank you to all the political groups! I think this is a good initiative today.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e33730	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e33794	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Lohfeyer. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e33817	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mrs Unterlander, I would already like to express my surprise at your cultural understanding. I am glad that we have a Minister of Culture with Claudia Schmied, which guarantees that the freedom and diversity of art and culture as well as the artists are given. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: Don't! Don't! That's not exactly what it is!]] It has been mentioned several times that the expenditure on education, art and culture for 2013 has been increased. They guarantee that the people of our country can be guaranteed access to education and also to culture and art in the best possible way in the future. In addition to expenditure for schools and teachers, these include those for post-education, basic education courses, adult education – that is, low-level access to education and further education. With regard to more socially just access to education, I would like to focus on a budgetly smaller chapter, but no less important topic, which also contributes significantly to the availability of knowledge and education to all, namely books. Books have a particularly high priority, especially in rural areas and especially in lifelong learning. The media stock in public libraries could be increased by just under 5 percent, with users increasing by 8.5 percent. It is particularly gratifying that more and more kindergartens and schools use the extensive offer of the books and thus the curiosity and joy of young people in books and other media can be awakened. Even in less urban regions, the offer has been significantly expanded and modernised in recent years by the promotion of books by the Federal Ministry of Education, Arts and Culture. The public libraries, where knowledge is provided free of charge, are an offer of invaluable value and hardly any more to think away. They are important non-school educational institutions for all and will be supported by the Ministry with €2.2 million in the coming year. Investments are expected, because libraries and their promotion are directly linked to lifelong learning, reading and language promotion and thus fulfil a very, very important educational mission. The initiatives to promote basic education and the comprehensive free repetition of educational diplomas are also the basis for increasing and building on education levels, especially for those who, for whatever reason, have been denied access to education and training. They get a chance to take a foothold in the professional world, to speak with it, and thus significantly increase their chances in life. The offensives in the field of education are investment in better life opportunities for our future generations, and the numerous reform measures in recent years are important steps towards greater equal opportunities and are also a contribution to social compensation in our country.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e33858	The next speaker is Mrs Deputies. 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e33881	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) It has already been said a few times: The budget for art and culture has remained the same in times of saving. I would like to congratulate you very warmly, Mrs Minister. I think that shows that culture has a high priority for you – but I believe that Austria is also a matter of principle – and that is why this is reflected in the financial cover. However, it must be said honestly that large parts of the budget are, of course, more reserved from the outset for the various compulsory expenditure that exists. I am therefore particularly pleased with the small but noticeable increase in expenditure on regional art promotion. If we all agree on this – and I think that is also in line with the objective of impact – that art is spiritual food, which must also be noticeable and noticeable in the federal states, in the regions outside, then it is clear that this must also be reflected in the budget. Art must not be a minority programme, but there must be a low level of access to it. The federal government supports some cultural initiatives in the federal states – and also a warm thanks. I would like to combine this with the request to continue this path next year and to strengthen the promotion of art in the regions. A second issue, which is very, very important to me and which I have addressed several times, is the issue of cooperation between schools and music schools. There is a clear commitment to this cooperation by the national conference. This is also particularly important to me as the Upper Austrian because we have a particularly well-developed music school in Upper Austria and the country of Upper Austria is also a federal country that invests a lot in the music schools. And I think, especially now, when it comes to expanding the whole day school or school afternoon care, the theme of cooperation will be music school and school. This will, of course, be about the topic of space division, i.e. a concept where one asks how to meet the needs of the school on the one hand, but also the needs that a music lesson with the most diverse instruments that are being taught there simply brings with it. I think that is also particularly important, because in the music schools the basis for a future cultural understanding is laid very early, and I would really like to take a relatively broad approach to the concept of culture. I think the wider and the more colorful a cultural offer in a region, the more natural this width will become for people. And tolerance to other cultures is certainly also the result of a diverse and colorful cultural range. For this reason too, I see the integration of the music schools as an important component and also important for the future expression of the education system. I would like to ask you to ensure that, in the course of the expansion of the whole day school and day care, the topic of cooperation between music school and school really leads to a real concept and that is, as it were, immediately considered. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e33925	Next speaker: Mrs Königsberger-Ludwig. 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e33957	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Mr State Secretary! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I too would like to say a thank you at the beginning of Mrs. Minister for her success in keeping the cultural budget stable in times like this – the scarcer financial resources. I think that's a nice success. - I know what I'm talking about: I am a city councillor myself and know how difficult the negotiations with the Financial City Council are always when it comes to the cultural budget. My full respect for Mrs Minister in this regard! I also think it is very important and very good – that has already been mentioned today – that the new budget is set with objectives of effect, because I simply believe that if one sets targets for action, one can also see in what direction policy wants to go, and this much quoted sentence, the budget is cast into figures policy, will become actually and really visible for the first time in the budget. When you look at the woman's cultural budget, you see that the stronger anchoring of art and culture in society is a very clear goal. I think this is an absolutely important, a priority goal, because I am convinced that art and culture can, on the one hand, greatly enrich one's own personal life – one can gain a lot from it. Mrs Verschlag referred to the need to promote tolerance. I am convinced that culture can support many social movements and aspirations. But culture is also important, of great and central importance for society as a whole. And of course, art and culture are also an economic factor. It is another goal of Mrs. Minister that as many people as possible are interested in art and culture, that as many people as possible also have access to art and culture. There are some programmes that have been implemented very successfully in recent years. I would just like to address the “Art Makes School” project, which will surely still gain in importance in the coming years, the many great theatre projects in schools or also, and this is a very important point that has not yet been addressed today, the reading weeks, the “Austria Reads”, where many children, many students with the book, are associated with reading. This is very, very important – also the project of free entry into the museums. A very clear goal, and I am very glad that this confession has become quite clear and clear by the Minister today, is the freedom of art. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Unspoiled.]] It is about the freedom of art, ladies and gentlemen, and above all it is about the appreciation of the artists, Mrs. Unterlander – which is not at all a political or a political matter at all – and it is not about the evaluation of the artists. [[Abg. May. Instinct: Also!]] This is a big difference, and that is the freedom of art, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Artists and cultural initiatives therefore need, of which I am convinced, also state support – whatever happens then is clear, but state support is important, otherwise many initiatives, many artists could not survive. This would also mean, I think, that my colleague, Mr Jury, is also a thinning of cultural opportunities in the rural regions, because the initiatives would not be in your community, not in my community, we would not have much to offer. That is why a warm thanks to Mrs. Minister for the clear commitment to promoting art and culture in rural regions, because there are high quality and great commitment! Thank you, Mrs. Minister!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e34009	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Mulder. 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e34030	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! A few notes on monument protection: The Federal estimates have essentially remained stable with €34.5 million planned for next year. And this is a remarkable sum, because this takes second place after the promotion of art except for the distributed facilities. [[Ongoing calls and calls between Deputies Weninger and Dr. Rosenkranz.]] The subsidies provided for the renovation of Profan and Sacrament buildings have been in the balance for years. – It's so loud, you hear it down so much. [[Intervocations at SPÖ and FPÖ.]] So for years, these funds have been around the balance. For example, this also supports the renovation of the monastery, the Salzburg Cathedral or the Vienna municipal buildings. [[Further ongoing calls and calls between Deputies Weninger and Dr. Rosenkranz.]] It is a very significant success of the Federal Minister that the promotion of the federal government could also be kept stable in the economic environment difficult for art and culture with a quota of 10 percent. And every euro in the
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e34075	Mrs. Colleague, there is a small tumult in the back there right now. I don't know what it's all about, but I have the impression that the plenary is listening more to the tumult than to your interesting statements. I may ask that we proceed in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. The Commissioner has a right to speak in peace. If there's anything to say, you can make a statement. Ladies and gentlemen, please continue!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e34096	Thank you. So I wanted – I don't know what it's all about. [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: (in the direction of Abg. Wenninger) That's unheard of!]] [[Intervocations at SPÖ and FPÖ.]]
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e34137	We'll stop the time, please. [[Abg. May. Josef Auer: Mr President! I want to listen! I don't hear anything!]] We'll let the moods cool down for a few seconds. I think it turns out by myself that you can then listen again. So, Mrs Colleagues, I think it's going to be all right now.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e34168	I wanted to say that every euro invested by the Federation in the protection of monuments is important. 1 € will trigger 10 € in re-route profitability. And this money goes primarily into job-enhancing and economic-invigorating measures. Most of the expenditure on monument protection is constantly being invested in modernisation measures, and this is, of course, an important aspect in the preservation of our cultural heritage. It highlights the promotion of maintenance, repair, restoration of monuments, which is an essential role in the preservation of monuments. The Federal Ministry of Education and Art as a partner of the federal states also makes it a very large free space to focus on what they want to do with their money in certain areas. That is why it is all the more surprising that today's country captain Pröll said in an interview that the Federation would withdraw more and more from the support. That's not true at all! It's the opposite. There's no withdrawal. The rate of 10 percent of support has remained the same and remains the same in the future. But this is an Austrian quota, and it cannot be said that a federal state can be financed at the expense of the other certain prestige objects. If you look at the 2011 Cultural Report, you can see that almost 25 percent of all the funding for monument protection went to Lower Austria last year. This is twice as much as Upper Austria and Vienna have received together. So that's a remarkable sum. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] An important objective is to increase cultural participation and thus improve access to information. I would just like to give you one example, a measure. A comprehensive memorial information system will be established. To do this, a GIS viewer is set up, which is a geoinformation system. I mention this only because two days ago we have been innovativeating the Geodata Infrastructure Act, and that is an important measure in this regard. To sum up, we can say: a great success of the Federal Minister. The budget for monument protection has remained stable at a very high level at 35 million. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e34218	Next speaker: Mr Brosz. 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e34239	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! I have spoken and I would like to take a brief look at the six-party application for daily movement in schools. I almost think the current formulation is better, as the daily turn hour would also lead to problems. For example, when you look at the public schools and know how the training of teachers there is in the field of movement and sport, you can see what problems we have. We also know that in some schools we have reached the limits of utilization even now. In higher schools, the situation is already such that there are hardly any gyms to fulfil the current programme. In this respect, it is also about being creative and, so to speak, not doubling school hours in the conventional form, but finding a solution to how to ensure this unit of movement. But I was actually talking about it because we have the impression that the ball has been playing and playing between the Ministry of Sports and the Ministry of Education for years on the issue of cooperation between organized sports and schools. The Minister of Sports says, on demand from the Sports Committee: This is a matter for the Ministry of Education, I have nothing to do with that! The opinion of the Ministry of Education has so far been: The organized sport is not a matter of the Ministry of Education! - That's not the way it is. If the application is to be implemented, there is only one solution, and this means cooperation between the two ministries, otherwise it will not go out. I put on it, as it really is about the forms, how to bring in movement to innovative things. Now I am not talking about ergometer classes, with which there has also been positive experiences. You won't be able to do that with everyone. It's about loosening the day. The fact that movement can also be understood as an element of learning is now clear. It brings with it especially to younger children, but also to older learning progresses, when you sit these classic blocks – 50 minutes, take a break, continue – break up and integrate movement into everyday school life. This is something that would have been good for a long time. Perhaps this will now offer the opportunity to take an innovative approach to this and to implement it in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e34281	Next speaker: Mr Pack. 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e34303	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Investment in culture, which is – many of my previous speakers have already mentioned – is not only a social responsibility that needs to be realized, but, of course, an investment in the future of our country. We are thus strengthening our cultural wealth, and this, of course, increases the attractiveness of Austria in Germany and abroad. This, in turn, is not unstressing for many other areas, the economy, for example, if I now make the tourism industry. Some cities benefit enormously from cultural tourism, and of course a thriving art and culture scene is the prerequisite to be able, as it were, constantly to attract new areas. This naturally strengthens Austria's brand and thus also promotes the entire economic location. I believe that the approach, which is also clearly understandable in this budget, so to speak, to invest in the culture, to promote it instead of the system, is important, because it is, of course, quite clear on the other hand: We need these lighthouse institutions and the highlights, but of course there must also be a certain variety – both in the agglomerations and, of course, in rural areas and in the federal states. This mixture is important and is also given in this area of the budget. Free entry into the Federal Museums is a positive and good project. Whether it's really sustainable, that's my personal opinion, I question a little. I know it from leisure companies that you might be able to take additional measures with the effort you have to replace the museums, so to speak, in order to increase visitors' attractiveness. In this way, one might save the free entry to a certain amount of information. It is a question of creating mentality. That is what I question, you have to talk about it for a longer time. Finally, I would like to thank you, and a few previous speakers have already done so, that we have finally increased the budget for the Austrian Film Institute in the field of film industry and set an important milestone. Of course, if you look at the whole area, you can't mention Reinhold Mitterlehner's initiative, in which it is about further expanding the film location in Austria. That's a big part of it. On the whole, you can be very satisfied with this budget.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e34348	Second word: Mr. Dr. Rosenkranz. 1 minute speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e34369	Mr President. I'll do it very briefly. Mr Hannes Weninger, in an interlocutory call, told me whether I would like to earn the Horst-Wessel order. I reject this as a bottomless cowardice to connect myself with an icon of National Socialism in this blatant way!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e34407	There is now no word for me on the sub-classification of education, art and culture. The discussions on this subject have thus ended. [[Abg. Weninger: (in the direction of the Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz) Did “apologizing” say?]] [[Abg. Kickl: Excuse me!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Rudas.]] [[18:14:44]] UG 31: Science and research
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e34461	Now we reach the negotiation of the UG 31: Science and Research. Mr Dipl.-Ing. Deimek. 7 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e34485	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr. Federal Minister! Hopefully the arrival on the train was good. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen in particular, of the two government parties. If you had looked at our requests a year or more, especially the 12-point plan – above all not only looked at, but at least partially implemented – then you would not only have contributed to the subject of lifelong learning, but above all could have shown responsibility. In the field of science, universities, where there have been enough problems and there are, they could have shown something that has to do with the subject of responsibility, namely to take out the emotions and to create solutions – solutions that we have shown exactly. The government parties have recently reached agreement on the subject of tuition fees, an agreement that is actually exactly what we pointed out in our 12-point plan a long time ago. But it's not quite implemented yet. I see, however, that this government cannot always fulfil the proposals of our liberals; that would be too much, against the "patent right" if one wants to do so. It just takes a little longer – but good. One point that still stands out is because we do not yet get fees from all those who have to pay, that a little bit of funding is put on wider legs; I call the so-called country of origin principle. I know there is always criticism from all possible directions: You can't do that, because EU regulations are in place! - and so on. In any case: If one had a little more backbone in the EU and if one had a little intelligent negotiations, it would be quite possible to negotiate and enforce this so-called country of origin principle. We are not the only ones, there are also in other countries. I therefore propose the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Why do we want that? – There is a share of about one quarter of students from non-EU countries who would have to pay corresponding tuition fees in their own countries; not with us. And that's not at all to be seen. There is still a medium increase to be calculated. If you now take the money of the new tuition fees – which is now, when this regulation finally becomes law – and in addition you take the money the ministry takes anyway in the so-called university billions, which is being disbursed, that is, a collection of hundreds of thousands of euros, then you can see that there are still deposits. Mr. Federal Minister, in your balance sheet you can see €411 million in reserves, and you have said in a request answer, of which €16.2 million will be used for this year and €313.2 million will be planned for 2013. This leaves about € 82 million – with correct operation of the calculator. Mr Federal Minister, what are these €82 million for? The universities would urgently need them. Mr Minister, I ask you to tell us first of all what these €82 million are planned for and second, when you will access it! Further points from our 12-point plan, which are very important and where I am sure that you will implement them slowly, but safely, would be the dissemination of online studies. I know the whole thing from my homeland, Upper Austria, from the JKU. There you are already relatively far with the implementation of online studies. We expect from the main university in Vienna, we expect from the other universities, especially from the technical faculties, increased expansion of online studies. It doesn't always have to be every student in the audience. He only has to sit inside if it's necessary. But if it is not necessary if he can work out something about the PC at home via the Internet, then this is the much cheaper access, and we do not need permanent hearing rooms that are already overcrowded and where one is sitting only inside. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The following is the study site-related funding. It's been chewing for years, I'm waiting for it to actually come. The most important thing, especially from the university's point of view – I have talked to several rectors and vice-rectors – is: Uni-Representatives say that they have felt a bit unnecessary and blackmailed by the discussions you, Mr. Federal Minister, have conducted on the subject of tuition fees, because they have received the funds for the necessary work in the infrastructure sector only if they have also enforced appropriate financial arrangements with the students. That was this unnecessary arrangement, where the Constitutional Court then abolished the tuition fees and you were forced to reintroduce them. Therefore: A total renovation and new construction concept would really be necessary now; and then we can also afford to do something that is absolutely necessary in science, namely absolute free access to higher education, without restrictions. It really can't be that on the one hand funds are lifted, that tuition fees are collected, that maybe universities are being expanded, but on the other hand there are restrictions. Science has not deserved this, it has not deserved youth, and our universities have not deserved it. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That is why I would like to make another request, which also concerns the economic existence of the students, namely the annual valorization of the study aid and an annual valorisation of the amount of credit. Why? – Since 1999 this has not been valorised, has not been adjusted; There was an increase of 12 percent in 2007, but now we are back there again. We continually force the students from the poorest areas of origin to work in addition, and afterwards it says: Be guilty of yourself! This cannot be done, it is unworthy of a modern social state that students from the poorer layers are excluded from the scientific field! I therefore propose the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] More income! This applies not only to workers but also to students of poorer social origin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e34644	The two motions for resolutions tabled are sufficiently supported and are under negotiation. The two applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e34748	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Cortolezis defeat. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e34769	Mr President. Federal Minister! Dear Seers! High house! For the EIA, the future of young people has priority, the future of our population, employment policy. We all know that this is only possible through strong, powerful universities, through investment in science and research. I would therefore like to congratulate the Federal Minister and the Federal Government on the success, despite a consolidation budget, of joining forces in the fields of science and research. We, too, have a number of ideas that we could add in front of every government clause, but I believe that in a coalition it is important to develop ideas for the future together, to agree together, and Mr. Federal Minister, you have managed to shape this budget in such a way that on the one hand, the future is possible and consolidation on the other hand becomes feasible. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Let us look at what this strategy means: The resort budget, your budget, could be increased from 2.1 billion to 4 billion from 2000 to 2013, i.e. a doubling. Let us see how much this represents the total size of the federal budget: We have an increase in the same period from 3.79 percent to 5.36 percent of the total budget. This means that reform measures have succeeded in investing more in other budgets in this chapter. We all confess to 2020, we all confess to the 2-, 3- and 4-percent target that the tertiary sector holds 2 percent that the research rate will be increased to 4 percent. This path is feasible, but it requires some framework conditions. In the last few days, the government clause has managed to jointly initiate and strengthen important framework conditions, in particular capacity-oriented university funding. It is an important step to make access schemes and access management on the one hand, that is to say, to see that the capacities also with the available resources at the university on the other hand, but also on the other hand, to improve the study conditions for students, for example through 95 professorships, which will also be available in the future. As the subject of study aid was addressed by my previous speaker: We of the ÖVP have presented a concept: 500 € per semester and exemption of those who cannot afford to do so. What would that put in line? – It would bring 230 million if we deduct all those who cannot pay the study fees for social reasons. That's where we have significantly expanded the circle of references. If we split this up and say that 40 percent of it will flow into the study aid in the future, then we would have exactly the social compensation that everyone wants – and that is why all countries have exactly this model, only Austria. But we still have the opportunity to pay up to 900 professorships. Ladies and gentlemen, this is an amount that we must take seriously. Therefore, we will not let go of it and continue to put the subject of study contributions on our agenda in the future. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This means ten times as many professorships as we can now handle, and yet an increase in study grants – it is therefore an important point. In conclusion: I am pleased that the Excellence Initiative has succeeded in securing the ISTA together in such a way that it remains a leading institution in the long term, and I am pleased that now, too, the ÖAW is receiving an increased consolidated budget with the new performance agreements in order to introduce the necessary restructuring measures. Over 1 billion will be made available to the ISTA, the ÖAW 279 million alone in the next three years. These are budgets that also enable top-level research. We can be proud, Minister of State. I wish you all the best for the implementation of an ambitious package for the next year.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e34843	Next speaker: Mr Grünewald. 9 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e34864	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! I have already mentioned today that these are not budgetary negotiations, but, euphemistically speaking, at most is a statement of the budget, and I will talk about it. First, Mrs Cortolezis-Schlager, it is already an enormous expansion of knowledge when I hear that the Federal Minister or the ÖVP guarantees the universities the future. I am new that the concepts of the future and the past need the cooperation of the ÖVP. They also exist without you, don't they? - Yes. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. May. Widmann.]] Now it is the case that universities complain – that cannot be denied, even if they do not like to hear it – still over scarce and lack of resources. If one ignores this and says that universities lack the necessary means to be truly competitive internationally, this not only affects teachers and students, but also the infrastructure for research. Many face the problem, what do I do first, what do I go back, what do I do better, and this also creates a struggle between research and teaching, and that is naturally in a knowledge-oriented educational space and for itself fatal. The fact that the number of students is rising is a good thing, but you can see it for 50 years. They have more than doubled since the 1960s and 1970s, and no one can say: Help, help, what surprise, now there's more. The EU even calls for Austria to expand and increase educational participation in the tertiary sector. Good, though, if you say that quality can only be achieved by reducing the number of study places and the number of students, this is not exactly a hopeful future and is not a highlight of education policy. It would have been possible that there were proposals by Wifo-chef Aigerer, where funds would still be lurking, so to speak, that are spent relatively pointless by – Van der Bellen has always said so – in innocent mountains, without asking them, holes bore. And they cost billions, which you don't need in part, even if you don't like to hear it in Carinthia. What's a little amusing for me now – I mean, I'm not just sarcastic – but I'm reading that you're making targets for this budget now. And I read: Academic rate between 30 and 34. Year of life, Condition 2011: 38.2 percent, impact target: 38.3 percent. So: Increased by 0.1 percent in two years. I have to say, there's a lot to be trusted with. [[Congratulation with Greens and BZÖ.]] [[Abg. Kickl: The dog torfer does the same!]] Then students' allowances: 2011: 32 percent, 2013 target: 30 percent. By 2% less. I'm not lying, I'm just reading what I wrote out of the budget plan. The support relationship for students – one has wisely taken not only the professors, but all scientific staff and teachers – settles at 12.5 percent between 2011 and 2013. Now 90 professors are coming, okay, this will improve a little. The Minister knows this, but he rightly says that one could still become more offensive. The Article 15a agreements will not take place until 2015, in other words, very late. And until then, the science department is funding, and thus the federal government, the task of health care, which is legally entrusted to the countries, quite violently, in Vienna, Graz and Innsbruck. It flows from the ministry – this day! – Despite budget deficits – how much is it now? – 140 million € until Christmas to the country of Tyrol for the clinical extra burden. I think you should look at the medicine that needs a good part of the resources, it needs the money, but already look at who needs to pay these funds mainly then and whether they are used for purposes. It's known that double-tracks arise. I now call the example Innsbruck and stay with medicine for a short time. In Innsbruck, great internal medicine, there is a professorship for the Clinical Department of Hepatitis. Now there is a vocation from a liver and intestine specialist. Follow: There is still a clinical department for liver and intestinal disease. - Great! In Graz – I have already mentioned this – the federal government has co-financed the West Hospital. Total construction costs: 1.1 billion €. The federal government is financing to relieve the University Hospital of LKH Graz of simple routine, because this does not have to do with research and teaching. What's going to be done? – The entire country’s health structure plan is being amended. There are special departments for top health care, which should take place on and on their own at the university, and the university gets more basic routine again. And the doctors don't come to the lab anymore and no more or much less for research. There are letters of complaint, still and still. Where you can do something for free – but that requires courage and tenacity – that is in the motivation of young scientists. It is said repeatedly, mobility, mobility, mobility, or elitist, elitist, elitist, Habilit standards. I just mention two examples of the hierarchical system. With us in Innsbruck, there have been relatively strong Habili standards with impact factors that can be submitted at all from a certain level. The professors wanted to increase this once by 100 percent – 100 percent from today to tomorrow! – and to my remark, you can already do that, but you should first wait for our study in which we evaluate what the professors have in their vocation to impact factors, that was in five minutes from the table. In five minutes! That is, you have to look at the mobility of those who are at the top of the hierarchy, and how the impact factors are those who are at the top of the hierarchy. And again and again – and the ministry is usually only looking at it – more critical respites on vocational proposals, which are even semi-interested Suspects. Why can't we set up an international commission by some experts, who will then see if this string is correct or if it has been muzzled, whether the ropes are and what else? Do you have to watch young people work on clinics, private money is distributed there, and income differences between individual special subjects are tenfold? In Innsbruck an Ordinary gave an interview. He was asked by the ORF: You earn up to 1 million – that was schilling at the time – per month? And there he gives the answer – that was disarming –: Yes, it is, but not every month. It also pays for young assistants who are in the research that is in the teaching. They get ten times at the children's clinic. – Ah so, the tenfold of zero there is not, but the tenfold of the salary. There are supervisory complaints to the Ministry of Inadequacies in operation. They lie forever, or nothing comes out. There you can give courage to many young people again, which is justice, that they also come to research. 30 percent of research has been required, and hardly any clinic has been observed. The anesthestists of Vienna alone could take over the entire teaching in Graz, Innsbruck, Vienna and in German-speaking Switzerland if they were not just in front of the hospital bed or in the surgery. In the case of secondary activities if the professors are not at work: I can tell you a case like this: Tropic medicine. There a young person finally gets a job in Vienna at the university, at the AKH Vienna, in tropical medicine. He was at the institute for two days, the director – I keep it neutral – then take it with him in his/her private coordination, where he had to insure himself, because the university insurance does not apply, and he has vaccinated there for a year. He didn't trust to complain because otherwise he wouldn't have received a witness. And if you say that to the ministry – Section head Höllinger has always been very excited, but he has done nothing and it has not become better either. Next point: Increase the reliability of the choice of study. If you read why, how, it says here: Increase Internet access to the Homepage Study Checker. – That’s a little thin too. Perhaps one could come up with reasonable discussions and think about what one can do together, without prejudice to any difficulties or disagreements. And last but not least: I would ask you to make a final contribution to the ratification of the Council of Europe's Bioethics Convention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e34923	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Kuntzl. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e34944	Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister! Dear visitors from Gumpoldskirchen! We welcome you very warmly to us. [[Congratulations with SPÖ, ÖVP and Greens.]] I think we agree that all of us would like to make more financial resources available to our universities, and they would also deserve it. It would be a good investment. Nevertheless, it must be noted that, in the current budgetary framework, it is already a significant achievement that in Austria we can make more money available to universities, not only that we need to reduce, as in other countries, but we can actually provide more resources through offensives and additional resources. In the last few days, we have put a package on the table, which is the first step towards the funding of study places, and in the course of this package, there will also be an improvement in the study conditions in some highly sought-after subjects, through the fact that we can also provide an extension to professor positions and an additional number of teachers. We don't want to reduce the number of students. We want to improve the study conditions by increasing the number of teachers. We want to continue to keep university access open insofar as everyone/anyone can start his/her studies in Austria if possible, although perhaps not at the university of the first election. We've managed to fix the tuition fees. We will ensure that there will be legal certainty at the Austrian universities again, and that most of the students at the Austrian universities will not pay any tuition fees. We improve the entry-level phase, as there has been legitimate criticism. We will remove the life-long barrier and it will be possible to start a third exam at all universities, even at the entry-level stage. We have decided to take first steps to improve the funding of studies – to improve the funding of studies on the increase of workers' allowances. This will increase for some, but should not be the last step, we can introduce a greater reform – and we have remained in the discussions. In other words, these are the first steps and the It also works in the Ministry of Science as well as in SPÖ.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e34998	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Widmann. 6 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e35020	Mr President. In any case, one has the impression that the outcome of the study fees negotiations is that SPÖ has already taken control of the scepter and has implemented almost a hundred percent in this country in terms of science and education. [[Abg. List: That's it!]] My colleague, Mr Cap, will be right. I'll prove it right now. But, ladies and gentlemen, of course, we agree that the question of education, the question of science, the question of research and innovation is a real challenge and a question of the future. If we don't get a better grip on this, then we don't have a future – economically no future –, no revenue, no taxes, no social, environmental and other areas of the future. What do I want to say? – The budget has been slightly increased from €3.85 to €4 billion. This would be around 3 per cent, cast in figures; if you adjusted it – for intermediate services or for collective contract increases and for civil servants' salaries – then only 2 per cent will remain below the line. And then it becomes tight, ladies and gentlemen, because this government itself has set itself an objective, especially in the tertiary field, of a 2% target of GDP. 2 per cent of GDP by 2020 is intended to invest in the tertiary sector, but this expenditure will not take place. And that's why you lie to yourself in the bag when you stand out and say you've achieved so much. They've almost reached nothing for the future, nothing changes! We need very different investments, but also structural changes to succeed. The same is true of research and development. There was a target path in the government programme – this also for the television viewers – which you yourself have held, from 3.76 percent of GDP to 2020, but with these resources you use, you do not create it at Weitem. Joanneum Research – this is not the BZÖ – says quite clearly: With this path you will have a financing gap of over €2 billion by 2020; half about from the state and a little more than half of the private sector, from the industry that goes off there. These are the questions to which you do not know any answers, and therefore we have long called for more safety from the BZÖ for research funding, for the promotion of basic research. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I can remember that colleague Hahn, then it was Mrs. Karl, and now it is the Minister's daughter, that everyone has already said that we need a research funding law. We from the BZÖ have repeatedly requested this to give security to enable long-term planning, especially in basic research. But what happens? – There is a single positive example, it has already been cited. That is what we criticized at the time, because it only applies to an institution, that is ISTA. We do not need to discuss that ISTA in Klosterneuburg is a top institute for top-level research in this country. There are other universities, however. Think of the Academy of Sciences! They do not have these privileged contracts, where you ensure funding for top-level research over 15 years and beyond. They only have funding for two or three years, Mr. Minister. I criticise this, and therefore we want to know how to implement this research promotion law. In fact, in Austria – Professor Hengstschläger describes it very strikingly – we are sitting in the average case. We have the second highest EU expenditure on education, but we cut off below average in the PISA study. This also continues with the university rankings, in the tertiary field, in the field of science. If we do not get better, we will not become more competitive either, and we will always remain an innovation follower and not an innovation leader, but also the goal of this government. That means it's about competitiveness. I have heard a few times today – and Mr Greenewald and Mr Kuntzl have mentioned it – that we have too few students. - No! The OECD clearly says that we have enough students. What we have too little are successful graduates, Mrs Kuntzl von der SPÖ. That's the subject. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: The button hangs!]] Mr Cap, you're perfectly right. The button means: We have paid enough for Greece, for the Pleite States, for the banks – that is what you wanted to tell me now – and therefore we have no money for science and for research. That's what you wanted to point out now. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The university entry rate has increased by around 6 percent to 49 percent last year, but the degree rate has even slightly dropped to 26 percent. These are the facts. There must be You close the tie you don't wear at all, colleague Cap. That is to say, there is a need for action in these matters, but I also think it is positive when it comes to introducing a new budgetary law. I think this is very constructive as a business administrator, but you must, Minister, step up the objectives of action. We need to make them more precise, we need to think about other objectives, which are also truly feasible, quantifiable. For example, if I may quote the objective of action 1, it is about university degrees: In the 20 most frequent studies, the goal for 2013 was to have 39 700 students. The state was already 39,709 in 2011. – This even results in a minus of nine students. This, I believe, cannot be a real goal in higher education policy. Or: Effectiveness Objective 2 is about the higher education plan to implement the care relationship. This has already been mentioned. We have a support relationship of state 2011: 12,5, the target 2013 is also 12.5. - So no change. I think that is very indifferent, Minister. It would have been a great failure to go here and say, in the mass compartments where we have care relationships up to well over 100, we set ourselves the goal of getting them down so that students can find proper conditions at universities. That would be a goal you should strive for. The academic rate has been addressed. Objective 2013: 38.3 percent, 2011 condition: 38.2 percent. To increase by 0.1 percent in two years can't really be an ambitious goal. I have mentioned the offensives, of course they do in some areas. They also work at the vocational colleges, for example. If you place € 40 million there for the training of students who will need the economy and society, that is far too little. The FHs are always under-exposed, knowing that this will be one of the great topics of the future. It seems to be all about the universities today in the discussion, but one of the major challenges will be the FHs, the technical universities. There the managers and the technicians of the future are also trained, which the economy can directly need and use. I hardly heard anything about this. We already have 40 000 students at the FHs, of about 300 000, but whether it is the economy, whether it is the Chamber of Commerce, whether it is the Industrial Union, whether it is the three wise men, all say that the FHs need to be expanded even more. Up to 40 percent of all students should be able to come from FHs. At present, we have a quota of 12 percent, i.e. this is a point of departure, an announcement where we can really move a lot, where we have already implemented the funding of study places, Mr. Minister, where there are already tuition fees, but where the social mix is better than at universities. I believe that this is really a future model in which we should fall more strongly into it, where we should finance much more than the 1 000 courses you have promised for the next two years. One should finance 1 350 courses per year, but through 2018/2019. We have calculated that would mean that we need €300 million more to reach a quota of 20 percent once – 20 percent of all students at the FHs, that would be an ambitious goal. That would be a real goal, but not those others I mentioned earlier. You are currently giving the FHs only € 245 million and that without valorization, because if you would take into account the valorization of recent years, Minister, then the FHs also lack in 2013 about € 18 million, € 264 million they would need. That is to say, this success story of the FHs, where we have three candidates each, in some subjects even ten, should be massively expanded, most forcefully and a little from the universities, where it is not going around in many areas, looking away to serve the FHs accordingly. They also have the fields of the future which should be strengthened. I am thinking of the work-related courses which one should force more strongly, for example in the IT field. Of course, this also costs a little more because the professionals study in the evening or also at the weekend. That's why you also need a little more money for it. I am also thinking of teaching – what businesses demand, what the economy demands, what the EU demands – in foreign languages. This too costs a little more. You'd have to force that. Or: increasingly enter into technical studies or also expand application-related research. You have the problem if you have a third-party funding from businesses that the money goes out after a few years. Then the young researcher stands and has to look for something new, and it can't be. We also need to strengthen our scientific careers at the FHs. Another one, Mr. Minister: I have already discussed how you deal with FHs in committee. Example Upper Austria: Upper Austria has 17 percent of the population, currently only 13 percent of FH sites, but has 27 percent of industrial production, more than a quarter. You have pledged 1,026 places for 2012/2014 and shared them in such a way that Oberösterreich gets 104 seats. That's not even 10 percent. So I don't understand how that fits. The last issue I can briefly address is the tuition fees. I think the tuition fees must always be seen in this ratio, in this triangle study fees-student support-student financing, because this is due to each other. What you've done now is a necessary repair of the tuition fees so that you comply with the highest courts. What you have not done is to remove a sustainable study fee, which is subject to and compensated for by the corresponding study grants which belong to the valorized ones, so that in Austria everyone who wants to do so can really study. You missed that! Mr Minister, I am in front of me and I really want to keep this in mind. That was your position on the 5th. November, on top of it is SPÖ/ÖVP, but I don't want to stretch it any longer, you can read it in the APA. You got out four days later, on 9. In November, with the proposal of the SPÖ, almost. They have implemented what SPÖ has provided in terms of tuition fees. [[Abg. Disgusting!]] They have not found a scheme for foreign students who really take advantage of it. You have said only on your own: From non-EU countries you can cancel the study fee up to the double level, i.e. € 726! - That's far too little. Why can't you get cost-effective tuition fees from third countries? I wonder, Minister. You didn't do that. They finally admitted that – in the “standard” of 9. Read on November – by saying that you could not stand up to your proposal. Minister, we need ministers who prevail – in the sense of a university landscape, in the sense of a research, development and innovation policy for students, because Austria has only the future with it. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e35099	Next speaker: Mrs Franz. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e35120	Mr President. Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen in the High House! There is no doubt that an investment focus is on science. We have heard this great regret before – of course, now are economically difficult times, but if you consider that in other countries the research and science budget is reduced by 30 percent, then we are well standing in Austria. We invest instead of shortening, and I congratulate you, Minister. Total expenditure on science and research in 2013 is around € 175 million higher than in the previous year. In addition, the university billions for the years 2013 to 2015 are still coming, and this is absolutely not a matter of course in economically difficult times. The fact that Austria is significantly above the average in public funding for universities shows numerous OECD studies. Therefore, it will be necessary to increase private funds for the tertiary sector. Of course, there would be private donors quite well, which we unfortunately do not have. However, there is another possibility, and these would be study contributions, combined with a study aid system. tem, socially just, as our minister suggested – because it is absolutely unfair if study contributions are not collected, considering that, for example, a skilled worker for a master's exam has to get in the bag quite properly. Almost 80 percent of students can already imagine paying study contributions. We urgently need to strengthen private funds to finance universities. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Now I would like to talk to the technical colleges who are actually a success project. The funds of the university billions will be used to expand the courses at the technical universities over the next three years. A total of around 4,000 additional study places are available in full development. The federal government invests around €40 million in this expansion. From the winter semester 2012/13, 521 new beginners will be funded by the federal government, and 505 new places will be created in a second stage of expansion in 2013/14. Professional universities are characterized by a practical education at higher education level, not only in the large cities where there are universities, but also in the federal states where there is no one, which is why they are especially dear to me. They are also characterised by objective and transparent admission procedures, which we would also like to have at the universities. We would also like to have transparent funding at the universities – something is already being implemented in this direction – and there are also moderate study contributions at the technical universities, which would also be desirable for the universities. This budget clearly shows: The Federal Government is putting on the right lever: investment in education and research.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e35175	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e35196	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! I am pleased that many of these have already come today to confirm the way we are going in this very important area, namely to secure the future of Austria and to be offensive to invest more money – even in times of strict consolidation efforts. Apparently this is also the case here in the House of Consens, and I am grateful for that. I never fail to stress that investment in education is not only investment in the future and in the prosperity of a country, but also investments in the enrichment and rise of individuals, that is what we must see. I mean “enrichment” the ideal enrichment. Education is an ideal value that is not always to be measured with economic standards, that is important to me, but the political task is of course just as important to invest in this field because it secures the future of this country. The Austrian Federal Government has set a very clear sign with the university billion, and this sign is indeed seen in the context of the development of these budgets in Europe. There was a meeting of the European University Association in Salzburg in spring, and the budgets of all countries have become transparent. It has been seen that Austria is one of the very few countries that offensively invest in this area. Most countries save, partly massively, even wealthy countries – we do not. I would like to thank all those who have helped us to make this initiative and the offensive. We have invested specifically in a few areas. The IST Austria, the Institute of Science and Technology Austria, has already been addressed – also critically addressed. In fact, we created a longer financing perspective, which was necessary. This institute has been founded as an institution of excellence with clear development goals, it has been evaluated, it has already demonstrated its performance, among other things by applying already nine ERC Grants, a very clear European quality feature. It was necessary to create longer-term financing security to ensure appropriate structural investments and to ensure the expansion of the research groups. [[President Mag. Prammer is taking over the presidency again.]] Comparison with other institutions is not applicable. Other institutions, such as universities or the Austrian Academy of Sciences, can take long-term safe funding by law. With our offensive programme, we have a total of € 4.22 billion spent in the subdivision 31, science and research. This is an increase compared to last year of 4.5 percent, which is a share of the total budget of the federal government of 5.36 percent and thus also an increase. I am not going to go into too many numbers now, I am only allowed – because it was also addressed – to express the university billions very briefly. Through the university billions, there are €250 million annually for the service agreement, with 240 million as an offensive. A total of € 990 million is available for the budget. If you turn this over to the years, it's €330 million a year. This money comes partly directly into the global budgets, 300 million of them, and 450 million euros are allocated in the so-called Higher Education Structural Funds. There these funds are linked to benefits. The most important achievement is the activation of students also in the sense of what has already been said – that we need more graduates. The activation of students and the increase in the number of graduates are the most important criteria by which we grant this €450 million. It is gratifying – also an equivalent to the missing research funding law – that in the budget path we were able to set the 250 million plus as well as the 157 million tuition fees for 2016. That is, we continue to move at a high level. Clearly, we must not only look at the money, so important and as essential as it is, and if necessary, it is also to increase this budget, but we must also look at the framework conditions. There's something we've done, too. We were able to present the first results of a very long and intensive discussion on the funding of study places at government level. We are thus starting the way into student-related capacity-oriented study place funding. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] These negotiations set out a criterion, which means improving care relationships. This is the crucial criterion by which we are at all justifying and controlling the funding of this place of study. We can now achieve an improvement in five subjects, in five highly sought-after subjects, where the care relationship is naturally poor, through two measures. One measure is the increase in professorships by 95, the other measure is the removal of a ceiling so that this effect does not pump again. With both measures, from the acceptance of a capacity limit and the provision of services, we increase the quality of care and also create sustainable improvement in these highly requested areas. The means that we do not reduce places, but we build places, and at the same time we improve the care relationship. This is, I believe, a very important and crucial effect for the students of this place of study funding. This is a first measure. We will continue to work, the law also provides for further measures that we propose. We hope that we will be able to implement this new financing model for universities over the course of three service agreements. We have also put other research institutions, such as the Austrian Academy of Sciences, on a very clear, transparent, predictable budget path through performance agreements. We have adjusted the structure there, we have attached many institutes to universities, so that the Austrian Academy can focus on essential centres of excellence and other tasks. We have a rising budget in the FWF. In 2013, 164.3 million are available. The FWF is an internationally highly regarded, highly recognized institute for the promotion of top-level research, for the promotion of basic research and fulfils this task with Bravour. We have invested in young people by making a paradigm change in the performance agreement negotiations. While we used to act there out of concern for a further so-called quantification of the university staff structure, we have reversed it. At my request, universities are called upon to release as much money as possible for jobs with so-called qualification agreements. This is a very important step to achieve larger quantities for the promotion of young scientists and to give this young science a longer-term, even an indefinite perspective at universities – but on the basis of quality and performance. That's very, very central. We have also released additional investments for doctoral programmes. We can thus create doctoral colleges in which more than 100 doctoral institutions are newly created. It is true that, with my proposal on the study contributions last year – which seems to me to be very voting, because the decision on study contributions would have been made home to the universities, just as it is already the case with the colleges – I do not agree. But I do not see this as a failure, but I have made a compromise with the coalition partner, and that is the essence of democracy. The essence of democracy is – I don't need to say this to this House – that one goes to one another and seeks a solution together. That's what we did, and that's what I'm happy with. Of course, I hope that if we improve the funding of studies in a sustainable way – we are working on it – we can also discuss the issue of the study contributions once again. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The recent OECD “Education at a Glance” report recently addressed confirms that we already spent 1.44 percent of the gross domestic product in the tertiary sector in Austria in 2009. That is what we are in the European section. Of these 1.44 percent, only 0.05 percent are private funds, while in the EU average it is 0.3 percent, that is, six times, in the OECD section the tenfold, namely 0.5 percent. This shows us what the public side is about to do, quite clearly above the EU section, clearly in front of countries such as Germany, France, the United Kingdom, very prestigious scientific nations. But we are very, very far below the private share. So we have to do it. try to increase the private share. We are also doing this within the framework of the Higher Education Structural Fund, and we are doing so through other measures. Overall, these statistics show us that in the area of the budget path we are quite on the way to the 2%. But it also shows us that we must not paralyze in our efforts. I would like to thank all those who support me in this effort – the House, the Coalition Partner, and above all those who discuss this in the committees, the ÖVP's scientific spokesperson – for being able to be so successful. This is not only my merit, it is the merit of a common effort, and I hope that we can continue these efforts and keep this important field of education, namely research and science, on track. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e35311	Mr Graf, Member of the Commission. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council for his excellent report. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e35333	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! As already stated in the Committee: In principle, it should be noted that budgetary resources at least nominally higher than last year will be made available in an area which is quite a future area or in the future. This is at a time when there is a financial and economic crisis in the European Union, which has also grown to Austria, to be recognized. That is what we have done, and that is why I would like to leave it that way in the budget. The criticism that we have repeatedly expressed in this area is less about the budgetary policy we pursue in the field of science and the Austrian universities and universities, but rather about setting priorities, which we are willing to do for Austrians. Unfortunately, we have to say that in this context. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And it doesn't look so good. Mr. Federal Minister Dentile, you're a minister who's got big advance ladyberries. You come from practice, are a renowned professor, also a recognized rector, and when you moved into the ministry, we all thought, at least we of the opposition, but also, as I know from many discussions, many in the SPÖ, that with you we might break the rigid attitude of the ÖVP in one question or another, which is important for this country. Unfortunately, this has not yet been done; the previous balance sheet is not really good. I am now only going through three points where we can see how the set of priorities is and where money is left. First topic: Access restrictions. That there is no misunderstanding: In the field of tertiary education, in the research field, I am happy about anyone who comes from abroad to Austria and helps to bring Austria forward. In the field of study I am also very happy when many come from abroad and study with us. It would be best for me if they came because we had the best university teachers and the best research. This is not always the case, but we must note that many people from abroad come to us, take a study place here, get rid of an Austrian or an Austrian. I would like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President, for his excellent report. And that's what we're accusing! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We are Austrian politicians and politicians, and we must ensure that we give as many young Austrians as possible opportunities in higher education – and not as few as possible. It is therefore necessary and important that, in accordance with a patched EU procedure, which we have taken up in caves and have also lost, which has removed the country of origin principle from our legislation, we should bring the country of origin principle back into the law, so that only those from abroad from the EU can come to Austria who have a study qualification and a study place in their home country. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But it is not up to us to do anything in this respect, not even negotiate and thus take our Austrians, our young people the opportunity to study what they want. We have access restrictions, namely the Austrian Matura. That's right, Minister of State? This is a restriction on access. If you are saying that it is not worth anything, we must work to make it better and again worth something – but not always lower the level and then, if there are many students, also many from the EU foreign countries who have no right to study at home, permanently academically and also in practice think about it: How can I reduce the number of Austrian students that is space for these students? – This is not a policy I would like to represent in this area! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We therefore strongly call for the implementation of the country of origin principle, which is also an EU principle, namely in the industrial field. When entrepreneurs come to Austria, the country of origin principle applies because it is in turn a better creation for EU foreigners, also here in Austria. That is, it is applied once and for all. We should get up there. We pay net contributions to the European Union, we pay transfers for all possible liability shields – and then we should feed and finance those who do not have a place in their home country in Austria?- Oh, my God! That's not to be seen at all! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] There's a need for a national shoulder clasp. And in the framework conditions we find them in Europe today, it is also an easy thing to enforce if you want to, ladies and gentlemen, to do so. Second point: clinical additional burden. € 135 million is paid by the Federal Minister from the field of science, from the provision of health care, that is to say for a country! And then in his own federal state from which he comes. If it were for Minister of Lobbying, you would have been caught with it. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Federal Minister! I do not think that it is the right way to extend injustices where they already happen, in other federal states, instead of negotiating and placing federalism back where it belongs. You take € 135 million away from Austrian universities, because this goes 1 : 1 to the country, to the TILAK – which then does what? – A private university has a public funding ban on the part of the federal government. This is not a real policy, it is a lobbying policy – and nothing else! Next Topic: Study contributions. Because of your rigid and partly acidic attitude – we have discussed a lot about it – you have now agreed on a regulation – that will be adopted in the next few weeks – as we have decided by a majority, but you have then refused to make a repair. This means that: They have already taken €60 million away from Austrian universities to this day, namely by not incasing those who are not diligent, who do not complete their studies during the specified study period. 60 million who are missing from universities! And that's the subject. So I found a total of 200 million that we leave on the street permanently. And much money is left by us in Europe – that is always the case! – never put on the back legs, but always just slip under the carpet, as far as possible under the door and say: Give us a few more conditions, we'll fulfill them anyway! The Austrian and the Austrian are tired of this. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr. Federal Minister! We must stop robbing young people every day despite perhaps rising budgets in your Austrian resort. They are responsible and must be the spearhead for the Austrians, for our universities. You must stop serving local interests, preferably in your federal state, even if you may receive praise from your country captain. We already have enough Lower Austria in Austria, we do not need this Tyrol too! And you have to stop sending and sometimes also very defiant attitude when someone has a different opinion on a subject, and also enter into a dialogue. We always hear from you that everything is alternativesless. In three points I have now listed alternatives to you. I hope you will be a partner for Austrian students – or you will continue this path. So far, the balance sheet is not too good, but we still have a year. Mr. Federal Minister, please take the opportunity to join forces with us, for the benefit of our universities and students!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e35469	Member of the Commission. Oberhauser is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e35490	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We have for the first time in the budget targets and also gender targets inside. One of the objectives is to have a balanced relationship between men and women in both management positions and students. In order to bring more or less women into technical subjects in the bottom-up process, the Minister Bures' campaign, on the one hand, and on the other, other campaigns concerning the study, on the other. As a negative example, as one should not do, and as I hope it will not happen in Austria, one can mention an EU campaign where women should have been recruited for scientific professions, in the form of a lipstick and the word "Women go Science", which became a mockery – with double-t – of the year and was withdrawn relatively quickly by the European Commission. What we should try to do in Austria is to set up research and teaching so broad that, as I said, it is accessible to men and women. I've got a little bit. Yes, the hope that this also works – especially when you see what happened on the MedUni Innsbruck yesterday. It was, I think, for the first time that there was a threesome proposal that only women contained. That is, the MedUni Innsbruck will be occupied with a female rector next year, and I think this is a very good step. [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. Dr. Lichtenecker.]] So I hope we continue in this sense. Our support, Mr. Minister, will help you to bring more women into leadership positions and also to “motivate” more female students in non-female subjects.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e35536	Next speaker: Member of the list. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e35557	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister Däderle! High house! The result of your government clature in Laxenburg in the science field is not a big throw. It's not bad, it's a mess, it's just a bad fee compromise. The tuition fees necessary for the financing of the universities have not been introduced. The 22 500 students from Germany will no longer be asked to cash out. The red blockade policy in the field of science has prevailed in the Baroque ambience of the castle. The self-proclaimed Minister of Science Kuntzl has won. [[Demonstrative applause by representatives of the SPÖ.]] This is a disaster for our universities. Therefore, an outraged rector, Badelt, criticizes this failed federal government. University policy is lying, suffering are the students, students are tormented, there is great student frustration. The dreams of the youth of career and career about a study are already suffocated in the germ when they are enrolled. They rob young people of any professional perspective over universities by red and black. This failed science policy is a lasting damage to Austria. We must now open our eyes to the students. We owe it to them. However, the main responsibility for the chaos at the universities is the ÖVP. The blacks have been working continuously in the Federal Government for 26 years, on the levers of this country. The predecessors, Hahn and Karl, and now you, Minister of the State, have massively failed in science policy. You, Mr. Federal Minister, have long failed your own goal in the higher education plan to strengthen the Austrian higher education area internationally and to achieve the highest quality. Her black plan of December 2011 is a thin scaffolding. This plan needs to be adapted and further developed long ago. The meaningful proposals of the experts of the Austrian Science Council are missing. These recommendations, such as overall high-school planning or the sustainable financing of universities, are completely missing. Here you are, Minister of State. Mr. Federal Minister, you will become a practitioner by the Theoretist! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Science in Austria needs an active, actionable minister, a minister who takes the justified protests and cries for help, especially the rectors, seriously. The rectors repeatedly call for a rescue shield for our universities – a quite reasonable proposal that can be expected to be solidly supported by the BZÖ. We also demand and say, Mr Klubobmann Cap: Enough paid! Not a euro for pleite greeks and speculators in the banks, but a lifeguard for our universities! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Only these measures guarantee that the universities will remain workshops of the future. But we suspect that the rescue of the universities will fail. Why? – Because you, Minister of the Federal Republic of Germany, are very likely to obey the black party street, which has little interest in a functioning university in Austria. They are frustrated in office and can be performed by SPÖ on the gangband. That's it. The budget debate clearly confirms that SPÖ and ÖVP are real objectors in the field of science. They insult and block each other ideologically. You always notice that. Black and red have also failed in science policy. Dear ladies and gentlemen! The logical consequence, of course, is the pleite in the ranking of universities. The only university in the field, the University of Vienna, took 23 places. These are bad notes for you, Minister of the Interior, who calls you chief responsible for this crash. Federal Minister, crempling Get the sleeves up and get Austria's universities back to the top field! You'll stay a close year for that. In order to achieve this goal, you must treat the 40 requests of the opposition. 40 applications are constantly withdrawn with dubious arguments, including the BZÖ applications for the introduction of study fees or our claims for the university location Austria. These examples also show that this Federal Government has long ceased its work for Austria. This Federal Government has failed in the scientific field. They are only more prepared for the 2013 National Council elections. And then the Sovereign, the elector, will present to you the salted bill.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e35636	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Hakl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e35658	Madam President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I am entitled to congratulate Mr. Däderle on the fact that he has now been able to pursue – we have all been able to monitor how difficult these negotiations were – legal certainty with regard to the study contributions at the universities. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Dear Karlheinz Teenle, I'm very glad you didn't get rid of finding a meaningful and good interim solution here, and I'm very sure you'll continue to fight for an even better from the next year of study. From my point of view, it is already a question of justice, when we see that, with the exception of the technical universities, where relatively high study contributions are lifted, social interference at universities has not been improved at all. [[Abg. May. Schickhofer: In Styria we have no posts!]] An exception were those years in which there were study contributions. It is interesting that, despite the study contributions, especially at the technical colleges, significantly more children from far-reaching shifts study significantly more children from lower-income shifts than at the university, where still academic children and children from higher-income households are in the large majority. So with the social argument, you can only say one thing here: As a result of the fact that in Austria everyone can continue to study regularly plus two semesters, which causes very high costs, without having to make a big contribution, the simple little worker who has to pay expensive master's courses and master's exams for his child subsidizes the university education of all academic children and children of rich people. And only the SPÖ is desperately fighting to continue to establish this groundless unjust state, while at the same time the universities would really need this money to further improve the quality of training. And I'm very optimistic that even the SPÖ base sometimes comes up with the fact that it can't be the right way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e35700	Next speaker: Mr Huber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e35722	Madam President. Federal Minister! – South Tyrol is also present, because I hope that the Minister of State as a Tyrolean is aware of what a historic day tomorrow is. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: South Tyrol!]] Mr Federal Minister, I can give you the original law, the Constitutional Law of Italy, which will be voted tomorrow. I just made a phone call with a colleague from Rome. In the first chamber tomorrow, the complete autonomy for the regions of Veneto, Sardinia, Sicily and also for Trentino-Alto Adige, will be lifted in the Constitution for our South Tyrol, for our Tyroleans. That's going to be the vote tomorrow. Tomorrow is the Lega, tomorrow the South Tyrolean SVP delegates are no longer able to bring it from the agenda with a veto. I will now give you the original law from the Italian Parliament and ask you to speak to Mr Spindelegger, because I think the wheel of history will be turned back tomorrow – and as a Tyrolean, the Minister of State will already deal with it, I think. [[Intervocations at ÖVP and SPÖ]] [[In the case of the BZÖ, and the members of the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Head: How do they want to decide tomorrow if they don't have an original? He took it!]] But now to our research budget, for development: Mr Federal Minister, the FFG is really a very, very important instrument. I believe that this instrument is also important for our companies, which have a chance to develop new products in research and to succeed with these products, to create new jobs, to create purchasing power with these jobs and to indirectly clean up the budget with this purchasing power. Let's see how it really is: I was a few days ago at a really dedicated young company that has 30 employees who already have prototypes of electric vehicles that are truly legendary. This is a technology, Mr Federal Minister, where we really have to think about something. The Germans threw this overboard, so we could become pioneers. And if we look at the conditions at the FFG now, we see: These conditions are designed in such a way that only the large industrial companies really come to the train. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] Especially for the regions, for the entire electric mobility, it is very important that we shape these accesses in such a way that even smaller companies really have the opportunity to let their employees continue to research, because this is very, very important and, as I said, really benefits our budget. We know today that such electric vehicles have an efficiency of 97 percent, and we know that the best petrol engine has an efficiency of only 17 percent, so that's really a rail we need to expand. Mr Federal Minister, you must ensure that the requirements for the directives for small and medium-sized enterprises are more easily fulfilled. It cannot be that in Tyrol only one biochemistry Kundl, a Swarovski group will receive from FFG millions and the small companies will stay on the track. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl]] [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Mr. Minister, you're in office for almost two years now. We have already discussed more often how important it is that the district of Lienz be given a university of experts. The Lienz district today has a catchment area of 500,000 people, and many South Tyroleans – if they can afford the ticket money after this change of law – would benefit from such an offer. Mr Federal Minister, you know exactly, we have an excellent HTL for Mechatronics in Lienz, which completes at least one hundred young students each year. They all have to leave Lienz. They are excellently trained, the local businesses need them – Liebherr; we have already talked about them often – but nothing comes from politics. I would strongly advise you: Think about it! That from a district such as Lienz, which is politically weaker than the night, the population so massively migrates, is precisely this policy to blame. Make it possible You see, we can set up such a college in the Lienz district! Again: This is a catchment area of at least 200 000 people. [[Abg. May. Schickhofer: 500,000 or 200,000?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl.]] [[Call the SPÖ: How many are it really?]] – 500 000 but 200 000 young people who are interested in a truly good, well-founded education. There are studies, the Federal Minister needs to know. And for the protocol: It's really sad when the SPÖ – which you have to log – has nothing else to do with an educational gap, as it exists in Tyrol, to make fun of. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. May. Schickhofer: No, I just asked if 200 000 or 500 000!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] Federal Minister! The city of Lienz with its excellent schools and with its geographical location – Tyrol is cut, the path to Innsbruck is very far away. Get active at last, act! We must become active, we owe this to the Tyroleans!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e35870	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Rudas. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e35891	Madam President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! This is not often the case, but I would like to say to Mr Martin Graf, who has put the debate to the point: It is absurd that there are still some isolated colleagues who stand out and discuss only how to keep young people away from the university, how young Austrians with access restrictions and study fees are prevented from studying. That is why, Minister: Thank you for your clear words. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] – I ask you to save the applause for a moment! I probably can't do it as well as the BZÖ delegates, but I would also like to thank our science spokesman Andrea Kuntzl very much, because that certainly wasn't easy negotiations, but very well done. [[Rejoicing at the SPÖ]] [[Inter-calls at the BZÖ]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This is also a subject on which policy has unfortunately been too busy, namely the study contributions. It is good that 85 percent of students still do not have to pay tuition fees, because we have, once again, a too low academic rate and none too high. [[Inter-call at BZÖ.]] Let us, therefore, deal with the following questions from today: How can we motivate young people to go to college? How can we improve our scholarship system? – The government has already taken a first step with the increase in allowances by around 15 percent. How can we achieve that more children receive scholarships from workers? How can we better discuss the course of study at school? How can we better support FHs? So let's think about how we can improve the study situation and study conditions for young people, and let's not deal exclusively with how we limit how we introduce study fees! It is a shame that the colleagues of the BZÖ – apart from the Tyrolean idea of the educational gap – have not made a single contribution to how we can improve the study situation. [[Inter-call at BZÖ.]] I still congratulate the negotiators! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e35981	Next speaker: Mr Peter Mayer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e36006	Madam President. Estimated Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! The 2013 budget is certainly characterised by many necessary savings measures, but the budget is also a commitment to offensives, especially in the field of science and research. Already in the 2012 budget, the funding in this area was increased by €66 million, and in 2013 another €175 million was budgeted. Not least, I would like to mention university billions. I remember exactly: A year ago, we debated whether our science minister will be successful in the negotiations for university billions. – Yes, he was successful, it will be effective for the budget as early as 2013. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] While other countries cut their science and research budget by up to 30 percent, Austria goes into the offensive and invests in the future, and this is extremely important. In addition, we have already heard it today, numerous OECD studies show that Austria employs a lot of public funds compared to other countries. We have a budget of 1.4 percent of GDP, and 1.3 percent is from public funds. Unfortunately, God – and this has already been said today – only 0.05 percent come from the private sector. I It is important that we set accents to make it more attractive for companies to invest in science and research. In conclusion, I would like to thank the Minister of Science for his commitment and commitment to fair study fees and study grants. I know that there has been a compromise; yet this is the right way, because it is about those who can afford it to make a contribution so that those who do not have it so easily in life can be supported accordingly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e36051	Next speaker: Mr Elmar Mayer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e36075	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Minister, you have today opened a meeting of the Austrian Science Council on “Learning lessons – the future of teacher education” that will take place today and tomorrow. I would have liked to have been there if we did not have this budget debate at the same time. But I mean, this leads us to an issue that has so far gone down a bit, which was also at the heart of the past government clause, namely the new educational education. We all know that one of the central education policy core projects is this educational training new, as it simply covers the education and training of all people. This started in 2009 as one of the government's core projects with the Expert Group and then ended up in the well-known Härtel paper. In 2010, there were the national Stakeholder Conferences, then there was the preparatory group under the direction of Dr. Schnider, and in February of this year, together with the Minister of Education, you finally set up the Development Council, alongside Dr. Schnider Dr. Roland Fischer, Rector Arthur Mettinger and Ms. DDr. Christian game. In a total of over 100 intensive discussions with the relevant communities, they have defined changes to be established by law which define the training of teachers in the elementary, primary and secondary sectors, i.e. secondary schools 1 and 2, as well as the professional competences of educators with the target perspectives. I think that this paper, which you have adopted together with the Minister, deserves great attention, as it actually puts the educational training for the coming generations on new feet. With the now eight-semester, i.e. four-year-old, basic training as a Bachelor, with the one- to two-year-old induction phase and the master building on it, it will be so that one actually raises the educational education to the extent that we need it, as we expect young people to teach our coming generations – with new educational and new scientific findings that will then be included. I am pleased that there has also been an agreement on the following questions: What are the tasks of an upgraded educational college with its new competences? What's the university doing? Where do synergies make sense? In fact, a milestone was set. I would like to congratulate you very explicitly on this paper and on this decision. One last thing, since many of us are currently receiving emails as regards elementary education: It is true that BAKIP will not be abolished with this bill, but a new professional image of the elementary education and training women will be fixed, which also provides Bachelor's training and master's training. At present, there is only one chair in Styria, which can offer an elementary education course, but I know that in the School of Education, which will be opened in Innsbruck in the next week, I think, there are also great efforts in Salzburg to obtain corresponding chairs. I think that with a new concept we can also put elementary pedagogy on good feet. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e36121	Mrs Himmelbauer has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e36142	Madam President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We have already talked a lot about the global budget of tertiary education. No less important is the second global budget, which deals with research and development. There are €346.9 million budgeted for 2013, which go into the financing of national and international research projects and research programmes and also provide basic funding for institutes. The Institute of Science and Technology Austria in Klosterneuburg is an institute that I would like to highlight, which has been discussed very often today and which already has a very successful history. It was not until July this year that we decided on further funding by 2026 – a very important step for a very young institute, which has committed itself in particular to high-quality research. And it's about promoting and securing these. The Institute's orientation and the internationalisation of basic research make Austria a very important and important location for scientists from all over the world. This can already be demonstrated by figures, data and facts after the fourth year of ISTA's existence. Scientists, scientists and employees from 31 countries are already working there in a total of 21 research groups. By 2016, around 500 and up to 2026, about 1,000 researchers, doctoral candidates and doctoral candidates will work together in 90 to 100 research groups. ISTA is in the best way to implement its self-esteemed and very ambitious goal, namely to become a leading research institution with international reputation; this was also confirmed in the 2011 evaluation report. Generally speaking, the strengthening and safeguarding of tertiary education, as well as our research institutes and institutions, is increasing Austria's reputation as a science and research country. This also increases the reputation of our scientists, graduates and graduates. Mrs Bundesminister, thank you for giving a very clear commitment to science and research here in Austria in this budget!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e36193	Mr Preiner has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e36215	Madam President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. Science, research and education are a highlight in the 2013 budget. This is also essential and important in so far as we can secure the research and economic location accordingly in the future. I can mention that in 2013 the science and research sector is making a budget of € 4.08 billion, and the universities will also receive €3.13 billion separately and, at least, € 245.8 million for the universities. This is a plus compared to the current year 2012. My previous speakers have already addressed some details here, I want to focus on the offensives. Here €80 million is available for 2013 – 40 million for universities and as much for universities. I should like to mention that in the next few years these offensives will provide approximately 4,000 new places of study at the colleges. This also concerns the Burgenland with about 30 new additional places at the two high school locations in 2013. I should like to mention that the Minister in the Committee also referred to the technical colleges – with a small drops of advertising, I am sorry to say: There will be no new university places in Austria. Appreciated colleagues, an important effect goal is also to increase the number of graduates in the high school sector. Similarly, the number of courses financed by the Ministry of Higher Education is to be increased from currently 33 700 to 34 500 in the 2012/13 academic year. I would also like to highlight the additional planning positions in the field of professors and assistants in the university area. I also particularly welcome the fact that there has not been a general introduction of university tuition fees. Here the ÖVP has ended its blockade policy, thank God. Mr Minister, I would also like to ask you to stand up for a higher reputation of Bachelor's studies and their graduates. These are often considered third- or fourth-class academics in Austria. Finally, I would like to read two sets from the WU report – November 2012 – very briefly; I quote: It simply needs to be ensured that each WU student has the fair chance of a master place at his own university. We cannot accept intrusive admission procedures, where there should be unofficial quota arrangements. The WU should communicate openly and not play with cards in the sleeves. – Quotes Mr Minister, talk You don't depend on the rectorate, but you're acting! Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to conclude by mentioning the recent agreement on the funding of study places, which has been negotiated over the past few months – a step in the right direction, as I believe, towards greater quality assurance for students and teachers at universities. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e36273	Mr Buchmayr. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e36294	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Federal Minister of Science! I would like to refer once again to the newly adopted Studienförderungsgesetz. Allowances for income from non-employed workers have not been increased since 1989 and have now been adjusted by 15 percent. In this context, I remember the recent report on the social situation of students in Austria. Thus, the proportion of students from socially disadvantaged shifts fell from 26 to 18 percent within 13 years. At the same time, 47 percent of students work during their studies. Thus, this decided increase in allowances now means a clear relief in the sense of a wider access to study for some 20,000 students. A fundamental and fairer reorganisation of the scholarship system should actually be the next step. To sum up, I would like to stress that here in Austria we have a budget of €4.2 billion in the science department, 95 new professors, an acceptable system of study contributions, the increase of allowances, many new points that have now been regulated, a truly viable system for study and for universities in Austria. Personally, I would like to comment on the fact that the opposition of the dispute between SPÖ and ÖVP is always very agitated and stressed: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Neubauer]] I have approached the Ministry of Science with some concerns and have always been very well supported there, and I also find cooperation on this basis very good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e36338	On science and research subdivided, I am no longer able to speak. This is why this subject area has been completed. I am now interrupting the meeting until tomorrow, Friday, 16. November 2012, 9 a.m. Negotiations will take place with the deliberations of subheadings 34 and 41 of heading 4: Economic, infrastructure and the environment continued. The sitting was suspended. [[19:53:03]] [[The meeting would be held on Thursday, 15. On November 16, 2012, at 19.53 p.m. and on Friday, 16th. ==References====External links==]] [[09:05:04]] Continued the meeting: Friday, 16. November 2012, 9.05 a.m.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e36393	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen! I'll take the interrupted 181. National Council meeting again. On today's day, the following Members have been reported as preventing: Clickovits, Grosz and Tadler. We continue with the budget consultation. The meeting will be held today on ORF 2 to 1 p.m. and on ORF III in full length. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e36432	A 9 ‘Vienna hour block’ was decided for today’s session, so that the following speaking times are currently: SPÖ and ÖVP each 131 minutes, FPÖ 113 minutes, Green 95 minutes, BZÖ 86 minutes and STRONACH 68 minutes. The breakdown of today's discussions is known. [[09:05:54]] Heading 4 (Economic, Infrastructure and the Environment) [[09:05:55]] UG 34: Transport, Innovation and Technology (Research) [[09:05:56]] UG 41: Transport, innovation and technology
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e36481	We start with the consultation of heading 4, economics, infrastructure and the environment. The first step will be to negotiate subheadings 34: Transport, Innovation and Technology (Research), as well as 41: Transport, Innovation and Technology. A joint debate is taking place on this matter. First of all, Mr Themessl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e36508	Good morning, Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Values Advisors! Yes, today there is a very important chapter on the agenda, and in total it concerns the economy. Only a functioning economy guarantees tax revenue so that you can really afford the expenses you afford yourself. Without a functioning infrastructure, a functioning economy is not possible. This also includes, of course, the infrastructure that refers not only to rail and road, but also to airways, to waterways, to telecommunications, to energy supply and many things more. All these areas would probably be easier to deal with – you are, in principle, Madam Federal Minister – if you had budgeted a little differently in the past and worked differently, above all in good years. Today, we are faced with the fact that the existing debt, due to the extremely high liability we have entered in recent years, is of course becoming smaller and smaller in the infrastructure area of the scope for investment. This, of course, also has a fatal impact on the economy. I will then take a short look at this point. Today, we have the situation that we spend more money from our budget for past-related management rather than for future investment, whether in education or in infrastructure and so on. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] I am allowed to quote the new president of the Industrial Union – this one is not suspected of being a more liberal – and Georg Kapsch, who clearly says that the Federal Financial Framework Act refers to the fact that 37.8 percent of expenditure on past budgetary positions is spent, and only a quarter of all federal expenditure is in the direction of the future. This, of course, also concerns very much the infrastructure. Mrs Bundesminister, you are now being asked to ensure infrastructure for the whole country, not only for the Vienna and the surrounding area, but of course also for the south and above all for the west of Austria. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This is, of course, an existential question, because it is also a question of a location for companies. Let me give you the example of Vorarlberg. They know that Vorarlberg and Oberösterreich have been a show country for years in economic interests and also in terms of economic figures. And now to Vorarlberg: We're not behind the Arlberg, we're called Vor arlberg. But we are, of course, looking behind the Arlberg from Vienna. This is the same way your infrastructure refers to this federal state. It's all going back. They don't offer any alternatives. We have the rolling country road here, we have the combined unaccompanied traffic. And what happens in Vorarlberg? Now we have the problem, anyway, that we have a natural barrier with the Arlbergpass, which is not so extended to be able to absorb capacity, which leads to heavy-duty traffic. Then we also have the problem that in the south of Germany – and I know, Mrs. Federal Minister, you can't do anything for that now – the railway is so disastrously expanded that it is not even electrified. We even have the situation that the line from Bregenz towards the German border is only single-track, which has been in sight for decades, and a change is not possible either. Then we have the problem that at the latest in Lindau at the border is ending with fun. It is similar with the connection to Switzerland. We still have no effective connection from Austria to Switzerland. We've been fighting here for years. For years here has been delayed, of course also by many environmental organisations and with the support of the Greens, in order to prevent this. The result is that we have truck stalls every day, miles long truck stalls that are extremely heavy on the population, and nothing happens! We have reached the capacity limit for the freight shipment at Wolfurt station for a long time, but future investments are not at all recognizable. These are all things, Mrs Bundesminister, who, of course, is missing. Now comes to the point that you have a budget problem. You have a money problem. You know that ÖBB and ASFINAG have a huge debt, not only that, we have also assumed extreme liability – just to keep this in mind. The volume of liabilities for the ÖBB has tripled since 2006! The acceptance of the liability for ASFINAG has doubled since 2006! That means you have zero room to invest in the future. If we do not invest in the future and not in the infrastructure, the economic location of Austria also suffers. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In all rankings, we see that Austria is permanently falling back. Already at times when we still had good budgets, we have been on the downward trend. This will, of course, worsen in times of economic stagnation or even recession, from the economic researchers. That means, of course, this decline will accelerate, and Austria will eventually be at the end of this valley, in the foreseeable future. Then you can no longer stand and say: We are the best in Europe! All of this, of course, also affects the tax rate for companies. We talked yesterday and all these days about Austria being a top tax country as far as the tax rate is concerned. We have a tax rate of more than 43 percent. – This concerns the general. But now we come to the tax rate for companies. There's a study of PricewaterhouseCoopers – I don't know if you know them – in which it is found that the Austrian companies have a tax rate – and now you're holding down! – of 53.1 per cent, and there are, of course, obstacles to infrastructure, expensive transport routes and all these things. Do you know where we're in this ranking? In this ranking, 183 states worldwide are evaluated, and we are saying and writing on number 147! Behind us are only developing countries, African countries and countries that have not yet had the opportunity to develop. But you can sit down soon and say: We are the best in Africa!, only we are continentally part of Europe and not Africa. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] However, they can no longer stand and say: We are the best in Europe! That's the point. Now I'm gonna tell you a few things. They've been burdening truck traffic extremely, and that's been it for years. We have the highest car taxes, although we have already lowered them. We have the highest tolls, and all that, although you are not able to offer alternatives. You know, Switzerland has higher tolls, that's true, but Switzerland has alternatives to offer. There are already two thirds of the total transport of goods on the rail. This is not possible in Austria because the infrastructure is not available. That's the big problem you've got. In addition, these extreme loads in the transport industry have made x truck fleets flying out in recent years. You know that. Hundreds of to thousands of trucks have been reported abroad, resulting in drivers coming from there too. In other words, we have lost over 10,000 jobs in transport in the last two years alone. These are all things for which this federal government bears the main responsibility. If you threaten the economic location of Austria so much that you can no longer finance infrastructure measures because you do not have the money because we have to spend almost 40 percent of our budgets on past budgetary management, then you are on a very bad path. We are in danger of slipping even further in the course of the next few years. Mrs Federal Minister, I know you've only been in office since this legislative period, but your predecessor also comes from your party, who is even Chancellor today, because he has done so well. These are all failures. If you don't think of it as flashy, then we're at risk that we're really on the number one side of Africa, even though we belong to Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e36653	Mr Heinzl is the next one to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e36675	Good morning! Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! After my predecessor's speech, it is time to correct some things that need to be corrected. Ladies and gentlemen, it is true, and this is also to be read that in the field of transport, innovation and technology, some €2.91 billion are available in the 2013 budget. The focus will also be on modernising infrastructure next year. It was also correctly mentioned by my previous speaker that this is a very important thing. Investments in the modernisation of the infrastructure are investments in the good future of Austria. The development and modernisation of the rails are of particular importance. This is also evidenced by the fact that around two thirds of the budget goes into this area of the rail. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The railway is, and I am convinced, simply the transport of the future and the environmentally friendly backbone of the entire Austrian transport system. The investment in the modernisation of the rail, which I would like to address in particular, is therefore so important because we know that still about 50 percent of the Austrian rail network, i.e. the upper building in the technical jargon, originates from the period of monarchy. It is no wonder, therefore, that the 2013 to 2018 infrastructure framework plan is planning investments of around €13 billion in the rail network. But this money is not only used to finance the expansion of major axles, such as the South Railway, but it is also important to invest in regional trains. It is very important that all long-distance trains in the core network are permanently removed by 2014. The Passau-Wels section will focus on this. High house! Throughout Austria, according to the new framework plan, €33 million will be invested in improving the already high safety standards. Projects that I personally love and have been included in the new framework are also the electrification of the Herzogenburg – Krems and Steinhof – Straßwalchen – Friedburg. From the end of these diesel trains, the environment will certainly also benefit. High house! The question of safety is central to all transport policy issues. On Austria's streets, what is very important and enjoyable, there is less and less traffic fatality. In recent years, the number of fatalities has halved. It is particularly positive that the number of children killed in traffic has also halved in the first half of the previous year. These figures clearly show that the path taken by the police with stricter legal controls and targeted awareness-raising make our streets safe. Transport policy, in summary, is concerned with safety, environmental protection and the strengthening of Austria's economic location. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The 2013 budget will continue the successful path of targeted investment in our infrastructure, and I am convinced that these measures will help Austria, Austria and the whole country to be ready for a good future.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e36736	Mrs. Dr. Moser is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e36757	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Good morning, ladies and gentlemen! We have been discussing transport policy for years and days. Unfortunately, many things have changed for years and days to the worse, little to improve. In this respect, Mrs Minister, our annual transport budget is unfortunately not even a retreat, but in some areas it is a silent capitulation of certain developments – I will now present them in detail: Number one: Mr Heinzl said that the priorities are economic location strengthening, environmental protection and transport safety. [[Abg. Heinzl: Right!]] – I am now laying your criteria on the transport budget – I am doing so now, so to speak, from the Stegreif. [[Oh, call at the SPÖ.]] – Let’s go through the series; let’s look at the numbers in concrete terms! Let us look at the figures for investment in road construction – the topic of ASFINAG –: Interestingly, we have more funds for the ASFINAG investments than for the ÖBB investments this coming year – this coming year! I know that – you come from Lower Austria – it is related to the Lower Austrian country elections, where the North motorway is to be driven back in a certain form; it is a very tricky form, since the environmental impact assessment of the “lobau-autobahn” is now taking place. [[Abg. Scheibner: Eben!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Great that this is going on at last!]] It actually runs into the road de facto this time more this time than into the rail. I also mention the future-irresence projects of the ASFINAG like the Linz Westring. This is about a worm progress that ends in a mountain, and this is a motorway that the ASFINAG is to pay – a purely, so to speak, old-fashioned regional bypass project, which is always dictated by pressure from the local politicians of the ASFINAG, Mrs. Minister, because it doesn't solve any problems at all. [[Abg. Prince: This is a very limited point of view, Mrs Colleague!]] [[Congratulation with the Greens]] But we have had this discussion; we will continue it. My problem is road safety. There will certainly also be several ASFINAG investments to increase road safety, but overall, transport safety is the greatest if as many people as possible use public transport if the focus is on it. This has always been a point of social democracy. Only stupidly, unbeneficially, badly, one has to say that the railway sets wrong investment priorities. Let's just look at the new schedule! I mean, in the new timetable there is just against the background, Mrs. Minister, that you say time and again, with regard to the south axis, finally there must be some kind of fair balance compared to the west axis, on the south axis massive deterioration. The last train from Graz to Vienna will be removed – it will be removed! We have the last line Graz–Vienna, which is after all the second largest state capital and the federal capital, at 8 o'clock in the evening – at 8 o'clock in the evening the last connection! [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenecker: Insanity! Incredible!]] That is why I would like to make the following request. [[Quoted print version removed]] This is a massive deterioration, shown only by one example. Mrs. Minister, the other example you can now understand on your mobile; unfortunately, I have left my cell phone now – I quote from memory. Open “SCOTTY mobile” and enter: Connection Graz–Linz. Then you'll see, about 5.47h there's the fastest train connection with about 3 hours 20 minutes. At 9.05 you have a WEST bus, a double deck bus, which is constantly booked out – about 2 hours 40 minutes. If you do not have a place, the ÖBB offers you the following alternative – Mr Amon, you are Grazer, but perhaps come. You rarely go to Linz; still let this break down on the tongue –: [[Abg. Amon: Well, not so rarely!]] You drive at 9.25 a.m. from Graz im railjet and are relatively fast in Vienna – Mrs. Minister, check this on your phone! You can change to Meidling – walk: 5 minutes – then take the U6 – all of this is indicated by “SCOTTY” – and you can reach the railjet at 12.14h to Linz if you are quick. That is, you can go to Linz via Vienna-Meidling, Vienna Westbahnhof and St. Pölten – and then you can get off in Linz. Mr Auer, as the Upper Austrian, you are more affected by this miserable Graz-Linz train link – and these are the second largest and the third largest country capital in Austria! [[Abg. Jakob Auer:... by car!]] You will be sent – and I say it so extra for the ÖVP – with the church around the cross with this connection. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I mean, it's not just that you sit long. It's also that you pay a lot. You have to pay the miles. You can't take the price from the shortest route, you pay the entire detour! Mrs Minister, this is really my core criticism of your so-called core network plan: You simply rave the connection, the cross-regional quick train, ICE connection of important national capitals from your schedule! [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Gaßner]] This has been the case last year, and it has partly worsened this year. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Riepl and Mr Mag. Gaßner.]] I do not want to mention from memory the other connections Graz–Linz or Linz–Graz, but that is exemplary for me for the wrong focus on the ÖBB investments and the timetable. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I can add a comment – I take the South Railway as an example. I quote from the impressions of constant users. “The fast trains are pulling” – on this route Vienna–Vienna Neustadt–Semmering–Graz – “behind the regional trains to Wiener Neustadt and then via false routes and arbitrary route turns with less than the otherwise easy 160” – are meant to be hour kilometres – “direction Gloggnitz. Between Vienna and Graz a total of 15 to 20 minutes will be donated in this style, which could be picked up in the short term” – if you could and would finally dissuade this route. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hornek.]] But we are planning the construction of the Semmering Tunnel – it certainly brings something! – we could only come to Graz cheaper and faster if we finally avoided the existing route to Gloggnitz. I close my series of examples with another. Now think about the Vienna–Klagenfurt route. You always say we need the expansion to be competitive. - Take your phone back to your hand! There is a train connection Klagenfurt–Vienna at 5.49 in the morning, and you are in say and write 3 hours 38 minutes in Vienna – that's not bad! – and that, although we have this winding method just ahead of Vienna. And then look at the Google Router how long you need by car. [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: This is a Google method!]] It says: 3 hours 37 minutes. With the current connections, the train is competitive! What do you think about how the train pulls away, so to speak, when you finally make the improvements directly before Wiener Neustadt or before Gloggnitz?- Oh, my God! Then it really looks different without having to take billions into our hands! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] You see, I am very close to the customer orientation of the railway, and therefore only a small stretch of freight transport. [[Call at the ÖVP: But now we are excited!]] Indeed, freight transport is not just a advertising drop, it's a vermin tank – I don't want to say "Fass", but tank. The ÖBB's strike concert on the connecting lines for transport capacity in the freight sector is really a single withdrawal fight, and if you say 30 percent is the goal, then that's the detachment of the detachment of the detachment. We were better; we are still over 30 percent, and the 30 percent that you find are more or less a grave song. – This cannot be carried by us budgetaryly in any way. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The last point is that our transport policy covers all areas, i.e. road, rail, water: In my opinion, the Danube expansion in the form is also wasted money – and air. This shows very clearly how you operate client policy, concrete policy of interest rather than balance of interest policy. What have we got? – Air fare of the AUA is lowered. Air traffic – i.e. kerosene – free of charge; this is tax gift number 2. Tax gift number 3: Airports et cetera free of tax. – Everything in air traffic is tax-free, so to speak. The Austro Control nets up to 15 percent in the budget, thus again taxing air traffic measures. This, as it were, tax exemption from air traffic, this favourable position of air traffic, and in combination with your miserable air transport Immission Protection Regulation, caused by the people who live in the vicinity of airports, especially in the vicinity of Vienna-Swechat, at the expense of the environment and also at the expense of the climate, is not possible! You also have some very good points of approach in your budget, I am sorry to miss the time to delete them – and that is what your speaking time is, Mrs Minister. [[Ironic hustle and bustle of Abg. Hornek]] But in total, I think, my examples convince everyone. This is not the way forward in transport policy! Instead of silent capitulation, we need a forward towards the Swiss model: customer-oriented, passenger-oriented and above all environmentally oriented.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e37002	Madam President, the request you have made was not tabled and has not been tabled. It has already been informed that it will be submitted at a later stage with sufficient support. Mr Bartenstein has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e37026	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! Mrs. Dr. Moser once again impressed us with amazing detailed knowledge of the ÖBB Roadmap with the focus on Linz. Not quite your opinion, when you say little has become better and much worse. – Rather, many things have become better in Austria’s transport policy and many things still need to be done, dear Mrs Federal Minister. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] From my point of view, I have no problem with the fact that ASFINAG has sufficient resources to advance road development and, above all, the general renovation of some high performance routes, and I also say that the ASFINAG shows us how to tackle the project financially financially financially, how to deal responsibly with debt – and that does so without burdening future generations for a fee. Much has become better in terms of road safety, and I have, in a way, a five-, or I should say now: a six-party or club consensus in the high house, when Mr Heinzl said that the number of fatalities is going down. – Well, perhaps, Mrs. Federal Minister, we can do the breaking of the sound wall: ==References====External links== December, that would be a nice experience, which we could then set up in a virtual way. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Heinzl.]] Some have also improved on the EU's proposal for a budget. Don't understand me now. As an Austrian, we must be very, very dissatisfied with Van Rompuy's proposal, but in a relationship with the proposal of the Cypriot Presidency to that of Van Rompuy has changed something for the better: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr Pirklhuber]] The proposal by the Cypriot Presidency, Mrs Bundesminister, would have meant enormous reductions in infrastructure and would have meant that the co-financing of the Brenner base tunnel from 40 to 34 percent would have meant that the co-financing of the Semmering and Koralm Tunnel could have been reduced from 30 to 18 percent, and at least that is not the case now in the Van Rompuy proposal. So a little detail where it gets better – in total, it is by no means the yellow from the egg for us in Austria, especially the opposite is the case. Let me now, so that my speech doesn't go too long – I have heard that our common interest is to go home today just before midnight – to make only two or three comments on what you should already discuss, Mrs Federal Minister, and wherever you could and should get a little better. Yes, we are for infrastructure development in road and rail. We are in favour of freedom of choice on the part of the ÖVP; we do not see this prioritisation – all rail, rail, rail and the road at the end – as you do, Mrs Federal Minister, not, but when it comes to infrastructure development, then with measure and objective. Since 2010 plus 60 percent for infrastructure expansion, this is a little bit in international comparison. What we see in particular in the area is that the ten percent efficiency improvement is not so far possible – it is in itself included in the coalition agreement. There was also a massive increase over 2010 in public services, i.e. transport services: plus 30 percent to € 656 million now. I would like to see what has also been agreed, namely by a decision of the Council of Ministers, at least once with a partial invitation to tender for public service. And last but not least: With regard to service law, Mr Haberzettl, and I do not want to incommodate you in this regard, as the Viennaer would say – oh, now I already get the index finger shown – so in terms of service law I refer to the coalition agreement. [[Abg. Haberzettl hoisting the index finger]] [[Abg. Scheibner: The Wiener say that...!]] It says there should go a little further. In reality, despite the willingness of Mr Haberzettl and his successor to cooperate, too little has been done to date. I would also like to see a little more progress, Mrs Bundesminister and Mr Haberzettl.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e37087	Mr Dolinschek is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e37108	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! The modernisation of infrastructure, investment in research and technological development is a command of the hour. Yes, we stand for investment in transport routes and the expansion of infrastructure, because where there is no functioning infrastructure, the economy does not work there either. That's it! Only, in this budget there are some contradictions, such as with the investment at ÖBB: There's a lot going back in the budget, and the ASFINAG adds a lot – but whether it's what it's like. It is important that we also develop our transport routes in the future, and safety is, of course, the top priority. Mrs. Federal Minister, let us look at the situation around Vienna: It doesn't matter which direction you come from, especially at the entrances – whether this is the A 2, the A 22 or the West motorway – there is congestion every day. Of course, congestion affects road safety, and there is already a lot of action in this area. If I address the functioning infrastructure where one speaks of moving from the road to the rail and to the ship, I must say that this does not work in many parts. I have already mentioned to you in the Budget Committee that, for example, in Carinthia, five ÖBB loading stations for freight transport are now being shut down, from where the transport of wood is now secured by rail. This is in Kötschach-Mauthen, that is in Weizelsdorf, that is in Feistritz im Rosenthal, that is in St. Paul and that is also so in Leadburg. In the future, transport will roll over the road. This is now a departure from moving freight from the road to the rail. But when these loading stations are closed, it is also about jobs, even that is to be considered. Smart, safe transport routes are a forward-looking event in the elimination of risks. We should all work to ensure that this is the same – no matter if it's on the road, where you've done a lot with the rescue street, or else where. Of course, more information is needed in this area, so that the situation will continue to be improved in the future, but this has already brought about a lot in this area, especially for the rescue organizations. But I would like to address one more point now. Most of us, as we are here, but also in the total population, are pedestrians, many also cyclists and many also drivers. There's a big problem: Today in the morning, when I was just going to Parliament, I see a girl with about 14, 15 years of age. The pedestrian ramp is turned on red, the cars are driving, and the girl just goes over the crossroads at red. The driver had to brake off. But what's in the paper afterwards? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] – pedestrian has been driven down the protection trail. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Jarolim.]] I just want to say one thing: Consciousness must also be formed. If the road conditions are bad, it is, even if the driver meets the required speed of travel, not always possible to respond to such people who simply cross the road without looking. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The same is true if you go along the ring. There is a cycle path that you have to pay attention to when you turn right, and the cyclist is much faster than a pedestrian. There is also concern about how to regulate this in the future. – These are just a few suggestions, Mrs Federal Minister, for this area. In order to make public transport more attractive, it is our concern to introduce an Austrian ticket, which is applicable to public transport throughout Austria. This would benefit young people in particular. One should create this austrian possibility. [[Aufgaben bei BZÖ und der Abg. Dr. Moser.]] Mrs. Moser, you said, thank you for the applause, Mrs. Moser, 3 hours 38 minutes by train from Carinthia to Vienna, but there is only one connection, the other takes 4 to 4.5 hours. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr Moser]] It's unattractive to drive the train. If you are against the extension of the coral tunnel and against the extension of the Semmering Tunnel, then the Carinthians will probably have to walk to the Styria, and only then can they get somewhere and drive to Vienna. – This certainly does not work! [[BZÖ and Abg. Dust.]] Now on another subject. Mrs Bundesminister, the working hours are becoming more flexible, the employees have to focus on them, but driving times have never been adapted to them. Therefore, if you want to force public transport, you have to adjust driving times. One last topic: the Pendler Pauschale. I am glad that there is now a rethinking, because in Austria there are about 1.8 million counterparts, and only 56 percent of them can claim the penalty. We have to come to a kilometres-dependent cost allowance, which is guaranteed for all – not only for those in full-time employment, but also for those who are in part-time employment and who have to travel to the workplace two days a week, as well as for weekly commuters, should receive a kilometer-dependent cost allowance. [[Congratulations with BZÖ and ÖVP]] That is why I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Estimated Ladies and gentlemen, we have already made a similar request twice, I hope that it will receive your agreement, because something has to be done at last – and I hope that you will be involved, Mrs Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e37245	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e37317	Next speaker: Mr Haberzettl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e37338	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I am not going to deal with the issue of infrastructure, because I think it is still being discussed sufficiently today, but it is about public services. I should like to briefly discuss the issue of ‘public services in itself’, because I believe there is, in principle, a consensus in policy as there are enormously favourable tariffs on public services in Austria. That is to say, we actually have a social policy component of public service, we have an environmental component and, ultimately, a family policy component. I would say that the public services are actually in fact social policy in this Republic. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I would warn you, Mr Bartenstein, that if services are privatized, the public services will no longer be due. There are examples in Europe that show quite different, up to the withdrawal of private enterprises from the service. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Bartenstein.]] I would, however, like to deal mainly with the transport of goods. Public services are also needed in the field of freight transport, although to a far lesser extent. Why? . At the end of this year, we are turning into a new, notified model in which it is no longer a matter of promoting complete trains, but of creating single-car freight traffic, as it is very difficult to represent economically, and also traffic that is necessary for transport policy, which is the unaccompanied combined transport, the unaccompanied container traffic, and also the rolling country road – well known and already mentioned. Mrs Moser, you are right: RCA is a concern child of the ÖBB – but not unfounded! In this context, I would like to look a little at the past: Not the purchase process of the Hungarian freight railway was the problem, how often investigated and claimed, but the real problem in Hungary was that after the purchase of the Hungarian freight railway, nothing happened at all for a period of three years. [[Abg. Hornek: That's wrong!]] Three years of not managing a purchased company is actually grossly negligent. And that's the root of the problem that goes through to RCA. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] You're right, Mr. Colleague, but it's not your fault. And the names are: Makers, Riessland, and my knowledge are very close to the ÖVP. [[Abg. Hornek: That's nonsense, my colleague. That's wrong!]] This was actually the RCA's problem, which is still in the RCA today. The issue of capital increase plays a role. Mr Bartenstein, you know, with ease, 500 million € of capital was provided to the association, which was also necessary for investing – as would be necessary for the ÖBB – but also for covering the abdominal area abroad. We both know that very well. I would therefore say that the ÖBB urgently need a capital increase in freight transport. And if you are serious about transport policy, then take steps that will also be possible.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e37415	Mr Hagen has now come to the fore. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e37437	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! I would like to begin with a praise, with a praise for the development of the ÖBB in recent times under the chairmanship of Mr Kern. Mr. Kern really does well, you can see that, and of course he has very big problems – he can lead him again. A problem is trade union, and Mr Kern is unfortunately biting his teeth at the privileged stage there. It is necessary for him to receive full support here. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenecker: Also hired by Stronach?]] Mr Spindelegger has already suggested that Frank Stronach should buy the ÖBB, and this offer stands, ladies and gentlemen. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Riepl.]] Let's do it like in Switzerland, where the federal government provides the infrastructure, the rail, that is, the federal property, and then the federal government rents the rail to the private railway operators, who then pay rent. This is a success project. Look at how well this works in Switzerland, ladies and gentlemen! This is a positive example. [[Abg. Haberzettl: In particular in freight transport!]] There, the union can no longer block and the pockets stop – with the ÖBB rebalancing the taxpayers. That would be the right way. The federal government could also put more money into the railway development, because then the area of the expensive personnel policy of the ÖBB would not have to be so strongly subsidized anymore. I think that would be necessary. Very many railway areas no longer hold the load. Passenger transport is forced, and the freight traffic remains on the track. That's the problem. And if you don't have money to expand the rails accordingly, you can't serve freight transport. This means that you have to transport more goods on the road, so you have to build more roads again, there is a stronger road use. We do not want to go this way! We want to have good passenger traffic, good clock traffic – for example, Switzerland, every half hour driving a train there, you can rely on it, and then you also know that you are coming home, which is unfortunately not the case in Austria, we have heard some examples. – I think there would be much to do. I am also a full supporter of the Semmering Tunnel and the Koralm Tunnel, ladies and gentlemen. These projects are very important, that's what every expert tells you. I spoke yesterday to a university professor, a German professor of international freight and infrastructure. [[Abg. Scheibner: Which one?]] He has clearly explained to me that these projects are useful. The problem is that Austria remains at its expense. There was too little negotiation in Brussels, there was too little money in Brussels, ladies and gentlemen, otherwise we would do much easier. It is also about Austrian jobs, which are created there with these tunnel projects. Why didn't we pick up the money in Brussels? – It is the Baltic-Adria-tic axis. Austria benefits from connecting the Graz basins and Carinthia and has faster transport routes, but the big profiters are both Italy and the Baltic region. This is an EU project, ladies and gentlemen, in this respect one should have acted accordingly in Brussels and collect money that we could have invested here in Austria. I think that would have been a reasonable thing. It is also the Brenner base tunnel. The Brenner Base Tunnel is an interesting project, but who benefits from it? – It benefits Germany and Italy, and we have the costs of Austrians. That's the problem. This is an EU project, where the EU should pay. I mean, that's the only right way. Mrs. Minister, there you have or the government has not done their homework. You should've improved that! I am now coming to the Wolfurt freight station, a project that has always been very close to my heart and for which I have made myself very strong. I have heard that Mr. Kern wants to prefer this project – and that is positive. I have always done this, and I, you know, have repeatedly pointed out how necessary it is for the Vorarlberg economy. Wolfurt freight station places out of all the seams, and the businesses are forced to transport more on the road because the capacity is not enough. Here I come to the next problem. So this has been done to sleep – for this I do not want to blame you, that was rather the Vorarlberger state government, which knew that this was coming, but did not do anything. Now nothing's gone, and the whole thing's slowing down again. And then there is the problem with the green spaces where you have to make an exchange again. So problems about problems that could have been foreseen, but where you didn't do anything. The problem is, I have to say, that we are now very late in making the important decisions and that this project is increasing. The next problem we have concerns the freight rail. I mentioned it earlier: We have done a lot on the passenger rail, we have some very good clocks, some of them still have it. And now we need an additional freight rail and the corresponding expansion of the railway stations. The freight rail could run one-way – I am now speaking straight from the Rhine Valley, but there are other areas in Austria where it works the same way – and the person cycle could be run double-track. That would be reasonable. For this we need to build a freight rail with two, three railway stations, where alternate freight trains can be parked so that the counter-traffic can pass by. That would be reasonable and then there would be more possibilities to carry out transports on the train. Thus we are on the next problem – the Rail Cargo Austria has already been addressed –: We have the problem that we do not have the necessary infrastructure there, the loading points and so on, so that the goods can be transported from the railway to the narrower vicinity by means of a small truck. It is also important to invest there. That would be reasonable! One should not invest in the union, but in projects, Mrs Minister! [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Rail Cargo Austria – the problem was addressed. The situation is, of course, very worrying. We know that in Italy these 2 000 freight wagons have been removed from the market. That means we have a competitive disadvantage again. I don't know what this is about, probably the missing money for maintaining these devices, but that's a really big problem, and there's a lot to do. I would like to talk about the project of the former S18 in Vorarlberg; a project that has been a topic for 20 or 25 years. This road project would be the only link to Switzerland in the high-level road network. Switzerland has done its homework, the connecting points are here. In Austria we have destroyed this project through the Wagelkönig, a bird that no man has ever seen in Austria – one has only heard of it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Walser.]] Of course, that's crazy. So far, they've been waiting for Traffic-troubled Vorarlberg population in the lower Rhine valley is urgently facing a solution – so far no one is in sight. Although some projects are being discussed, there are always the environmentalists who prevent this. I've got to say, For me, personal protection comes from animal protection, quite, quite clearly, even though I am an animal friend and very much likes animals. Mrs Minister, it would be necessary for you to speak a clear word on the part of the Federal Government in this context, so that the Vorarlberg population will really be freed from this traffic chaos. A positive step – another positive step: We have got the second path tunnel tube – the old one will be renovated – from next year the two-track. This fulfilled a demand I have made for decades. Since I've been in politics, I've been making a strong contribution to this project. How necessary it is, we see, because there are serious accidents every day in the counter-traffic area of tunnels. As an executive officer who has had much to do with traffic and accidents, I know how important it is to have two-thread tunnels, which greatly reduces the frequency of accidents. That's where you helped us again. The project was implemented by Hubert Gorbach at the time – he did good too, you have to say that quite clearly, and I am glad about it. Unfortunately, you have not only delivered good headlines lately. In the Alko-Spot story, justice is finding out against you. I think there's a little need for explanation. There have been investigations for weeks. The Procuratorate has extended the investigation procedure. So that means something has to be on it. I think it would be necessary for you to put a little light in the dark. I would also like to address the commuters. We know the situation: The commuters are currently being really cut off by the state – taxes on taxes. They need the vehicle, often because of the lack of alternative transport infrastructure. You can't ride the bike from Oberwart to Vienna, that's not possible. Ladies and gentlemen. I think it's necessary to relieve the commuters. That's already been mentioned. You have our support there for sure, because you can't let these people down. At the end of the day, I'll give you something, Mrs. Minister: We'll give you a hand from the Stronach team. Accept this invitation! Let's renovate the train together! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Moser.]] The costs are not paid by the taxpayer, but by Frank Stronach. The offer stands!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e37545	Mrs Bures spoke. - Please, Mrs. Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e37567	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I thank you for this first round of speakers. Due to the remarks, it was recognised that the issue of transport policy, but also the question of Austrian railways, was discussed with great passion. This shows that there is a big identity fiction with it. This is a good thing, because in this way you are with the majority of Austrians, who are also very proud of the Austrian Federal Railways, who, when it comes to mobility, would not be able to think away in our country at all. Today's debate on the 2013 budget has led to an intensive discussion in the Budget Committee. I have already answered many things that have been raised today in committee. Before I say something fundamental about the future of transport policy and the importance of mobility in Austria, I would like to take three points out of the discussion briefly. Firstly, the question of the transport of goods by rail: It is one of the most important things that we want to have freight on the rails, and there are also a number of initiatives to do so – with all the knowledge that economic and economic considerations must be reconciled. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: There are string concerts!]] Ladies and gentlemen! If, as a result of the economic situation in Europe, there are difficulties in all freight trains across Europe and Austria succeeds in transporting 30 percent of goods on the rails on the rails, this is significant. No other country of the European Union transports as many goods by rail as Austria. We should be proud of this and not be squatting about Africa. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] However, we will continue to work hard. [[Abg. Lausch: That will be necessary!]] Our goal is to have a modal split of 40 percent on the rails after expansion of all investments. Second point: Mrs Moser, you yourself have said that we have been discussing this last year, and my answer to the Linz and Graz links is the same that I gave you last year. There has been no change on the part of the federal government and the support of these routes. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: Compared to last year!]] No cent was saved, no kilometers of train connection was set. However, the country of Upper Austria has ordered and also paid for connections and has now stopped the payment. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: This is not the task of the country Upper Austria!]] It's like always in life: If you don't pay, you don't have anything! In other words, the country of Upper Austria has closed the line with the participation of the Greens who are there in the state government. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Moser: That's not a country route!]] But we will try to re-establish an attractive link. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the ÖVP.]] Third point: Not only am I deeply convinced that public transport has priority over individual transport, and “priority” means preference and not equality. Mr Bartenstein, we have also written this down in the government programme between ÖVP and SPÖ. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Moser.]] There is a priority for public transport, Mrs Moser, and this is reflected in the budget. What you said here was wrong! I already know that ASFINAG's investments are not visible in the budget because these investments have to be financed by means of toll revenue and vignette revenue. But next year as well as in the coming years, on average, public transport and rail will invest twice as much as in the road and not vice versa as you claimed. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I think, even on the basis of these brief answers, ladies and gentlemen, you can already see: In the area of transport – I will also have the opportunity to talk about technology and innovation – we present a truly responsible budget. It has a balance between necessary savings, necessary cost reductions on the one hand and courage on the other. We have the courage to invest in the future and the courage to say: We must not use the money for interest payments – and therefore we must consolidate – but must invest in the future of our country, in the economic and employment location. And this is happening with the investments in road and rail in Austria. We are boosting the economy with these investments. Austria is better off than most other EU countries. We have chained economic packages. We didn't break the country. [[Abg. Steibl: What does “not break up ” mean?]] We said: Yes, we are investing in these areas today. We create values for next generations, for our children and grandchildren, on the one hand, and today we create so important employment on the other. You have to imagine this: This investment alone creates 50,000 jobs for men and women in this country! The operation of the new railways and lines that we are building will once again give 50,000 people a safe job. Imagine what it would mean if all these people didn't have a job. We must not only consider the human component, which means to every individual who has no work and therefore no income, but also, of course, the whole economic damage. Unemployment would rise by one or more percentage points with one stroke. I want to avoid this because I believe that the most important thing we need to do today is to fight unemployment! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This 2013 budget, which is to be decided in the House today, shows that beyond the edge of the plate, we are thought to make investments for next generations. We also have something new in this budget. All departments have had to define effective targets, i.e. to define the meaning of the investments and activities involved and what to do with the tasks. In terms of efficiency objectives, I have identified as the top priority the improvement of road safety. This issue has been raised quite rightly by you today. Every traffic accident costs a lot. First of all, of course, he brings a lot of human suffering, which is the worst, but he also costs a lot of money. That is why it was true that we have stated in the road safety programme that we want to halve the number of deaths on motorways and highways by 2020 and that we want to make our motorways and highways safer. That is why we have planned a set of measures. We're building second road tunnel tubes. The construction of the Tauerntunnel tube was one of the essential construction work in my area of responsibility, and we were able to open it. We're generalizing. But we also build truck pitches so that truck drivers can keep their rest periods, which is extremely important for road safety. We improve street coverings to make them more grippery. In addition, we also use new technologies, such as traffic telematics, with which we can warn drivers faster when there are, for example, wetness or smoothness. These are measures that lead to greater road safety, and ASFINAG is one of those in Europe who have pioneered in the use of new technologies. We have passed strict laws, which I believe was quite right. We have defined the risk controls: Raser and Alcolenker. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: And cell phones!]] It can be seen that all these measures, namely sharp laws, strict controls and also awareness work and awareness campaigns, which are intended to change behaviour, have actually resulted in fewer deaths on Austrian roads by 17 people compared to the previous year. And I'm not going to let go of everything to make sure that the Austrian roads become safer and that we can cope with human suffering. I would like to give two examples because these points have been very discussed. Firstly, the introduction of the rescuing alley. It has already been in the Government Agreement, and we have held discussions about it for a very long time with all the Blue Light organizations, with the rescue, with the fire brigade and with the police. We have looked at international examples, and in all studies we have come to the view that the Rescuegasse makes sense. One is on average 4 minutes faster with this new regulation at the accident site, and if the rescue is 4 minutes faster at the accident site, that means a 40 percent higher chance of survival for the injured in the car. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: If it works, that's the problem!]] That is why I appeal to all drivers today to stick to this new regulation in the road traffic regulations and to keep rescue roads free, even if it is new and not quite used to it. It could also happen to you yourself that you are involved in an accident. Today, all the Blue Light organizations are telling me that we need to talk about it and inform it. That's why I'm doing this today. In any case, this variant is always better than the old one. The deployment vehicles are now faster at the accident site than they were in the past, and that is good. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The second element, which is important, is the work of consciousness. The highly successful awareness campaign “Alcohol at the tax: Could you live with it?” has already been addressed. This campaign has not only won prizes because it has obviously brought great attention, but has also shown its effect: We have looked at exactly how the figures were before and after the awareness campaign, and we have seen that the proportion of positively tested rulers has fallen after the campaign. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ing. Hackl.]] The number of ads for handlebars who had more than 0.8 promille has declined after the campaign. The number of alcohol-related road accidents or deaths due to alcohol has decreased, and this is what this campaign is all about. I am deeply convinced that the campaign was carried out in accordance with the law, and I am telling you today: I will continue to carry out such campaigns in the future, because I consider them to be correct! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The second objective we have defined in this budget is to ensure sustainable mobility in Austria. “Sustainable security” means the facilitation of socially sustainable mobility. In our country, mobility must also be manageable for everyone. We want ecologically sustainable mobility, which is also environmentally compatible, and we want sustainable mobility, because it is important for site and employment. From all these objectives, it is clear that it will be our core task to invest in public transport in order to be competitive and future-oriented. They have talked about investment in public transport, in the rail sector. The next budget will include €1.7 billion. We invest a lot of money, and in the future this will lead to shorter driving times, higher speeds, more comfort, better routes and higher capacities, even for freight transport, and to modern stations in our cities and communities. The railway stations, which must be accessible, should also be seen as a gateway to our communities and cities. All these investments, which we make very long-term and for which we have planned a 30-year financing period, are huge investments, and they will last five times as long. Five to six generations will benefit from this investment, and overall, the economic and employment location is already benefiting from it today. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The infrastructure is one side. Mr Haberzettl also referred to the operation. This is not a self-contained construction, but it is a matter of organizing the traffic. There are routes on which one can drive on a private basis, and there is also private participation, as is the case on the West Railway. By the way, this is unthinkable in Switzerland – in order to return to these statements again – where there is no liberalisation. On most of the routes on which our students go to school and the counterparts to their workplace, however, there must be, of course, public services to ensure that railways are also manageable. We also need modern, new trains in which we also invest a lot. These investments, even if they require more money, also mean an increase in public transport performance. Today we drive as many kilometers by rail as never before in the Second Republic. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber.]] There are as many men, women and children on the railway as never before in the Second Republic. I think that shows that we are on a good path and that this is an offer that will be accepted, and that should be so in the future. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Of course, there are promotions not only in the field of passenger transport, but also in the field of freight transport. You must imagine: With €100 million in promotion in freight transport alone, we prevent dangerous goods from having on the road. I think it makes sense that we do not carry chemicals such as chlorine and hydrochloric acid on the road and that we also do not have crude oil supplies on the road, but that we have the most on the track. We also support this with this budget and with the decision-making. Ladies and gentlemen! A total of € 2.9 billion will be invested in mobility and in the economic location. We are making, as we have said, an offer that we have never had in Austria and that we want to improve even further. We will be operating the West Railway in the next few days: From Vienna to St. Pölten, from center to center, you will drive 25 minutes, from the centre of Vienna to the centre of Linz an hour and 15 minutes. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber.]] I would also like to make such offers for the routes from Vienna to Graz and from Vienna to Klagenfurt, and that is why we will also extend the southern route in order to enable people to do so there. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Thank you very much for this important discussion, which, regardless of the ideological assignment, is about our country and about the future. We have put this up transparently, and I am looking forward to all further discussions with the aim of extending public transport and mobility in a sustainable and sustainable way. - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e37791	Mrs Mag. Hakl is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e37812	Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! This chapter also discusses business-oriented research and innovation promotion in our country. Each of us is aware that the future of our economy and thus of our well-paid and secure jobs lies, and it is very welcome that we have been able to increase the funds in this area by really well-known amounts, despite the great need for consolidation that we have overall. For the research funding company alone, €5.6 percent or €30 million more will be loosened than last year. This is very targeted research for highly innovative companies. In this context, it is particularly important that we have also created new instruments to bring young, innovative, technology-oriented companies to life not only but, in particular, to support them after a few years to grow beyond a critical size. There has always been a great limit in Austria for this. There was a lack of risk capital, and the very good very often left the country and went, for example, to Great Britain. Federal Minister Mitterlehner has set up a foundation fund, a venture capital fund and the business angel initiative exactly where we have lost hopeful companies that were on the run-through, there and there. So I am very optimistic that we are on the right track. It is also gratifying that the investments of companies themselves are increasing in research and innovation. We will reach an all-time high this year. Over €3.8 billion will be invested by Austrian companies in innovation, technology and research, and we will also be able to reach the target that 70 percent of this expenditure will come from the economy in the near future. In total, Austria is significantly above the EU average with expenditure in this area. The path reasonably shows steep up, and I mean we can't do enough. Mrs Bures, allow me to correct you in one point: They said it was so passionate about the ÖBB because the citizens and MEPs in this House were so attached to the ÖBB. – I give you the right to: The ÖBB are an incredibly important company for this country. However, I believe that the great emotional debate is more related to the fact that this company consumes 4.4 percent of the tax performance of an average taxpayer. An average taxpayer in Austria pays annually without having driven a single kilometer by train, per man and nose 400 to 500 € alone for the ÖBB! [[Abg. May. Josef Auer: This is a fool!]] Let us look at the budget at the same time! This year, the ÖBB will receive 37.3 percent more for public services, i.e. for pensioners, for counterparts, for routes that are not used up, for goods and persons this year than in the previous year. We've checked this three times, I'm not wrong, and that, Mrs. Federal Minister, with falling passenger numbers at the ÖBB! I would have this more of 37.3 percent much, much better for research, innovation and science than for the public service of the Austrian Federal Railways! Competition also revives business without promotions. However, fewer people drive at the ÖBB, but we pay for them to drive at all, 37.3 percent more, and that is not acceptable! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e37855	Next speaker: Mr Dipl.-Ing. Deimek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e37876	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! I listened to the previous speakers: Mr Bartenstein said that everything was good in the transport sector. Mr Heinzl said that the good future is coming. – I am more like Mr Heinzl: The good future can still come, but you have to do something for it. At present, we are not yet optimally positioned everywhere. I start once in road traffic, at the Asfinag, the outsourced federal company. This will exceed its peak in investment in the next few years, and then it will actually go down. Mr Bartenstein also praised that. But, as we know, the debt will be fully credited to the federal government from 2014, and then it is about finally reducing these debts, because good transport roads are one thing, but the reduction of the debt incurred by these investments is the other. So far, the rule has stated: Toll revenue minus what we use for debt repayments will be invested in construction. The new account, as I imagine it, and how we imagine it from the liberals, means: Toll minus what is then used for construction and service must go into dividend payments to the federal government, because he then pays back the debts, otherwise it won't work! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Not only can it ring a little bit in the woman's office, but it has to speed up and there the sparks have to spray when the money comes from the ASFINAG, otherwise it can be assumed that the money will be plyed there and the feed ropes will be put back there. We don't want to. Caring is basically not cheap. This comes on the one hand from the spray price, and on the other hand, where people need it, namely the pendlers, too little. At the spray price you sometimes have the impression – and you will forgive it – that a few noble reds from the OMV offer an article that is called driving a car, and they make it a luxury. And on the other hand, we still don't have the shuttle fee that really gives people back what they have on expenses. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And the crown – Mrs. Moser, I give you in many ways – are then still extra stories like the park pickerl, where the woman double-citizen travels around with the A8 that the people paid, but the folding wheel has her back in the trunk. This is a kind of state fascism that we certainly do not support. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Hey, hey!]] And what does the ÖVP Währing do? – This goes with it as well, because there is also the feeding trough closer than the 64 percent people. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: What about?]] [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Pull your tongue, colleague Deimek!]] But let's get to the subject of rail. The basic requirement we have in the area of rail means: Get out of here with politics! It does the ÖBB, it does not do the traffic as a whole well if it is intervened daily. Let's remember. What about politics? – There comes a real estate walker Huber and rides the ÖBB with a klescher on the wall, so it just snaps. And that costs us right now, ladies and gentlemen, 400 € per man and nose, from infant to grey. And for example, we are not going to increase the capital ratio of the Cargo. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl.]] Where's the money we need there? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber.]] Why? – Because we constantly have politicians inside who like the small kindergarten kids like to play railways: We'll build a track there, you can drive. Then we need a soft one. Then, for example, we drive through Wörgl, but in Zams, Mr. Revier inspector says to the Riljet: Hold it! That is what politics is doing constantly, but not what would be really reasonable. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] What would be reasonable comes from the enterprises, for example from the ÖBB, but certainly not from politics. And if the policy were reasonable, then it would have long since made this increase in the equity of the ÖBB Cargo, because then the now not cost cutting would have to operate and the entire single car transports and the like would reduce the takeover points in order to ensure half an operation. Why I say that, too: This, of course, concerns not only freight transport but also passenger transport. We know very well, Mr Moser has said that there are a few problems with traffic on the South Railway. When will the Pottendorfer line be expanded once? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Moser.]] We have been talking about this for so long, when is it finally extended to discharge? There are so many things. And then again, politics – I was really surprised this year at the end of school, in the later spring – comes back, but it doesn't solve any problems, but creates new problems. I open the regional media at home, the “Tips” and the “Round Show”. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl.]] And what do I see? – There is colleague Singer inside – who is still reading but will soon listen – and what does Collegue Singer say? – In addition to the already existing funding for students, he also calls for additional support. Mr Singer, this is the fifties who would also cost us the implementation of your demand per citizen. [[the speaker holds a 50-€ appearance in the height]] – Thank you for this populism, for the ÖBB, for the transport policy, this is absolutely nothing great. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP]] But what we, as politicians, should bring together, would be to do something for the citizens at last. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hornek.]] Let's remember. What was it like when Mr. Hazelsteiner's western railway started? – That's what it's called, they all cook with water, that's nothing. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber.]] Within a very short time, the contracts with all the necessary transport associations have been concluded. There is a relatively old demand of the FPÖ for an Austrian ticket. I know it's not that easy. This is complicated, because you have to negotiate with all kinds of people. But there's no such thing to this day! [[Abg. Dr. Moser: This is an Ur-green requirement!]] [[Abg. Amon: What's the matter?]] That is why I would like to make this request once again, which is to say: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Accompaniment with the FPÖ and the Abg. Dr. Moser.]] That would be something that really is for the citizens. This is where politics can stand – but it can't play with a little railway. Now we are coming back to a slightly more serious topic, namely development, research and technology, because with everything else, red and black have so far shown that they do not necessarily mean it. [[Rejoicing]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] – Even if now the calls come from the black side. You're always just saying you're serious, but you don't even have an idea of economic policy. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Moser.]] [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenecker: 10 seconds speaking time!]] How does it look in the field of technology? Technology is really one of the most important factors that has a location, and of course it also needs planning security. We know things like the EU's framework programme and similar ones have relatively long planning horizons, we always have the annual budgets. But we absolutely need an extension of this budget path, let us say at least five years. That means that this would be the real stamping and fixation of medium-term financial planning. I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Mrs Bundesminister, you have a relatively well-educated research and development budget. Congratulations on the negotiations for this, but we also want to ensure it in the long term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e38116	Mr Deimek, you have approached twice, very close to a call for an order. - I'm going to give up now. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] On the one hand, I do not believe that it is appropriate to draw comparisons with ‘state fascism’ in this country in a further context, and on the other hand, private individuals cannot resist all that is said here, so we should be careful not to call private individuals “gangers”! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] The two motions for resolutions have been properly tabled and are under negotiation. The two applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e38233	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Oh, no, no, - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e38254	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! So if you've listened like this, then, I think, this accusation that too little investment in the infrastructure has been resolved in the air. If I were an opposition politician – in the community I was long – then I would look for points where I am more right. I would like to mention Mr Themessl and Mrs Moser. You, Mrs. Dr. Moser, are very target-oriented otherwise as to your argumentation, but that has dissolved into air. The fact is that 50 percent or even more of the infrastructure comes from the period of the monarchy and that in the coming years almost 13 billion will be invested. So there's a huge pick-up program. More than 100 stations and stops will be renovated. Whoever drives through the country with open eyes sees that it's just a wave. And yet again and again, the ÖBB is made poor. Just recently, my son called me on this – he was driving the train to school every day – and asked me: Dad, why is the railways always being insulted? He sees summer as winter, whether hot or cold the workers on the train where they work, and he doesn't understand. I tried to explain this to him in such a way that this is a targeted action, as there are people who want to make the state worse, who want to pursue the goal of “less state, more private” and prepare the field for privatisations. And then people like the colleague Hakl come out, who has very good contacts with capitalism, and want to make the track bad, because the field for privatizations is to be prepared. I don't like that. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] However, the facts speak for the ÖBB. I always drive myself 2. Class here to Vienna, always come very punctual. Mr Strache has just come too late today. If he were to drive by public transport, he would not always be late. [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: He still wouldn't be there!]] ==References== District. [[Abg. Dr. Fichtenbauer: Where should he be in the 1. Are you driving the district with the ÖBB?]] The Austrian railway is the most punctual train in Europe: 460 million passengers per year, including bus. The 2011 rail customer survey – 12 000 people were surveyed – resulted in the “Good” note. And in advertising, which has always been criticized, the train takes 50th place, although it is one of the largest businesses in Austria. 1 800 teaching places has the train. This is also interesting for the listeners, many may not know: More than 1,800 teaching places, I believe, are also an important contribution to the future of our children and young people. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The ÖBB, it's said again and again, wasted money. There are a variety of fairy tales. That was partly the case between 2000 and 2006. There's a lot of shit going on, many hundreds of millions have been engulfed. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Riepl: Like the Gorbach!]] [[Interlocutory calls from Deputies Mag. Worm and Amon.]] And today, due to the filleting of the time, the woman has to be reduced to the various categories – to eleven companies, to 1,200 executives – by a third. I just look, my time's already, unfortunately. Thank you very much for listening to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e38347	Mrs Lichtenecker has now come to the fore. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e38369	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, a good economic and knowledge location needs investment in the rail, and of course the concrete and steel in this form. Of course, research, education, universities and development in this area are very important for a location of knowledge and for good development. And we believe that there is currently a standstill management and little dynamic. Mrs Minister, in your area of research budget, there is an increase, although, in my opinion and in our opinion, there is a far too little dynamic. I would also like to stress that in Austria we have a good infrastructure at universities, at non-university research institutions and, of course, also in business research. That is good, but we must not rest on these points, but must invest very dynamically. Otherwise, this is a difficult development for the future. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This standstill and this little dynamic development will fall on our minds in the future, and we already notice this a bit far. We have a waste in the various rankings when comparing how strong it is for the countries in the innovation areas where research is concerned. Mrs. Minister, you have just set yourself the goal of making Austria the innovation leader, and for years we have had the problem that we are constantly falling off, now from 7 to 8. Now you can say, well, that was this year. But unfortunately it's not just this year, it's always. Now the Research and Technology Council and many other wise minds in this country have been working on a research strategy. It was decided in 2011. That is a good strategy, but the means to implement it in this form are missing. Mrs Minister, we would like you to take your decisions and objectives seriously and implement them and not leave these huge gaps in the budget, as the Research Council stresses. Just as the targets are defined, with 3.76 percent in 2020, when you look at the calculations of the research council, there is a huge gap of almost €2 billion. Mrs Minister, even in the current year, €127 million is missing in order to reach this goal. That is what we need to take seriously, and I therefore also propose: [[Quoted print version removed]] This is exactly what the researchers, especially the boys who are at the beginning of their career, want to do: Planning safety. Planning safety to work well. This is something that we have very well in other areas, not in this area. The next, Mrs Minister, we very much miss, is an evaluation of indirect research funding. The research premium has been increased. What has not been done is to ensure that the funds are actually used efficiently. It is announced again and again, it is made, it is in progress. We are missing this painfully because we are convinced that it is now necessary to use the funds efficiently and focus. And when I'm at the focus, I'm convinced that here in Austria, we have a very good eco-economics economy, much more to invest in energy research: away from the casting pot and focus on the big, central challenges! Of course, we need more basic research. Basic research – which is, of course, also located at the Minister's subsidiary – is the substrate and the ground for further development. The thin and dry out right now, and we can't let that happen. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mrs. Minister, you are responsible for business-oriented research that in fact, research will become products that establish themselves on the market. A huge theme is to simplify the administrative burden. This is a long-term overdue issue, which must also be included in the structural reforms. Now in the budget, it does not fall down like this, but every year the complaints come over and over again, and there you have to take the appropriate steps. It is also important to ensure that the lack of risk capital is finally made available to businesses. An innovation-friendly climate also means that the researchers are mobile. I am convinced that we are a research immigration country. Austria needs to become a much more attractive country, and this is about different other framework conditions. What conditions do researchers and their families have when they come to Austria from abroad? We need massive action, and the practitioners will always confirm in this form that it fails to come to us and find the appropriate research infrastructure here. Of course, it is also about mobility, exchange in one's own country, the expansion of broadband infrastructure, but I am now coming back to what Mr Moser mentioned earlier – of course also about the rapid connections of public transport such as the railway between major cities. I am submitting the proposal, which has not been accepted before, concerning the railway link between the two cities of Graz and Vienna, which reads as follows: Motion for a resolution by Dr. Lichtenecker, friends and friends The National Council wants to decide: “The Federal Government, and in particular the Federal Minister for Transport, Innovation and Technology, is invited to join the Graz–Vienna evening rail-day route as part of its payments for the public sector. To ensure transport and to prioritize measures for speedy travel time reductions between Vienna and Graz in the ÖBB Framework Plan.’ The Graz–Vienna route is not the only problem. We have a big problem with the Linz–Graz route. Linz–Graz, Ms. Minister, has become unattractive from the passenger equipment, from the journey times – an unsustainable condition. Do you know, Mrs. Minister, what the main problem in this story is? – The main problem is that you, Mrs Minister, no longer regard this part of the Austrian railway network as part of the core network and bear responsibility for it. And that's the core problem. That's what I can ask you, Mrs. Minister: What does Vienna pay for the Vienna–Graz route? That would be an interesting variant. Responsible for financing in this area was and is a member of the Socialist Group in the Government in Upper Austria. This should be stressed here, with reference to your comments from the past. The following has been clarified on this route: Finally, Mrs. Minister, you have abandoned the Upper Austrians and the Steirers in this regard, left in the rain, and refused to provide this connection better Linz–Graz, Graz–Linz. We will not do so in this form either in the future. [[Abg. Riepl: Say something nice too!]] The good thing, Mr President, is that I very much believe that we have good programmes in various parts of the applied research. And I believe that it is also very important that the field of applied research is well developed in the future. Nevertheless – and the Minister knows this very well – we have the large construction sites of lack of funding, the low funding for basic research and the problem that there is a general lack of planning security. And that is exactly what we wish to see implemented in this form.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e38448	The two motions for resolutions tabled are sufficiently supported and are under negotiation. The two applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e38619	Next speaker: Mr Grillitsch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e38640	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It is very important in times like this that there is stable finances that there is a stable budget, and the finances of Austria have been in good hands in recent years. In good hands, because it also led to Austria's economic location being assured that jobs could be secured, that income was created and that purchasing power was also present. The result shows that we have one of the lowest unemployment rates in Europe. [[Abg. Ing. Höbart: A real income loss of over 30 percent!]] We can be proud of this policy. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mrs Bundesminister, Infrastructure is important, and Mr Bartenstein has referred to it: Much has happened, a lot has gotten better, but there is still a lot to do. There is still much to be done in the area of development, not only in the cities and the agglomerations, but above all in the rural regions. I come from Upper Styria, ladies and gentlemen, and I also say that the transport network is the veins of our country, road and rail, but in particular information technology for these areas, for rural areas, because we can thus get the world into the village and vice versa our achievements, our ideas in seconds into the world. However, we still have great challenges with demographic development as a whole – we know that. People get older, there are a lot of boys, people are healthier. How do we ensure these benefits that we must offer to people, ladies and gentlemen? I would like to point out this in the example of the Upper Styria market, which has been marked by massive changes over the last decades, where people have been much demanded, where, after the collapse of the state-owned industry, it has succeeded in securing jobs with a number of top businesses and, above all, with many small and medium-sized enterprises. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: More regional policy! More regional policy initiatives!]] We owe it to people that we also take appropriate measures. And I am glad that the extension of the South Railway from Vienna to Klagenfurt is now coming. But, Mrs. Infrastructure Minister, we still have many gaps in the road network, especially when it comes to my closer home, the upper Murtal, from Jüdenburg to Scheifling. Parts are being expanded, but here people have been waiting for 20 years to close this gap from Jüdenburg to Friesach, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This is important, necessary in order to secure jobs there as well. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: But not the road development!]] And in addition, for example, in the Murau district, which one predicts in the next few years is a 50 percent demigration, we have serious shortcomings. In particular, information technology needs to be further developed and optimised here, because there are many complaints from the many tourism companies, from the businesses that there is not too little, so fast access to the Internet. We need to improve this, we need to optimize it. That is why I invite you, Mrs Federal Minister, to put in place appropriate measures here, because 2015 is, for example, the snowboard World Championship on the Kreischberg. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mrs Bundesminister, please accept this invitation: Come to a local eyelet with those affected! Convince yourself on the spot that what I have said is a command of the hour!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e38725	I call Mr Spadiut. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e38746	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! High house! I'm going to deal with the problem of the commuters. Since 2010, there have been drastic interventions in the public transport system. The Federal Government intends to withdraw from the responsibility for public and regional transport in Austria and increasingly transfer responsibility and financial responsibilities to the countries. – However, without making sufficient resources available. This reduction of the available federal funds or a reduction of the grants also entails a further major burden for the donors in the countries concerned. Due to the poor or non-existent connections, the commuters are forced to switch to buses. This is not a satisfactory solution, however, because the buses are often stuck in congestion and there are considerable delays. For this reason, the commuters change to their private cars, which means a burden on them several times. On the one hand, the high spray price and the cost compensation in no way satisfactory, and on the other hand, it was denied to set up the promised park-and-ride locations. There were plans to expand the subway to the outskirts of Vienna. These have not been implemented as there has been no cooperation between the federal government and the country. And since this is not enough burden for the commuters, the park pickerl is also introduced in the outskirts of Vienna. [[Abg. Strache: They belong to the surrounding area, not just to the outskirts!]] This not only makes for great frustration for the commuters, but also for the arrants. How far it can go is shown by an article entitled “Be Punished in Währing ” of the 15th century. ==References== ==References====External links== District was a classic park-and-ride district and therefore one had introduced the Parkpickerl. So an open attack on the pendlers. But where are the commuters supposed to put off their cars? – They can't put them in the pants bag either! [[Cheerfulness at the BZÖ.]] As the Parkpickerl Anrainer says against Pendler shows the statement of a woman in the “Kurier”, who says: “I’ve never looked at the car marks here, but now I’m doing it – and that scares me.” Or in the “Kurier” of the 13th century. November reads: With the “baseball beater against” – supposedly – “Pendler cars. The parking situation in Währing remains tense. Chaots take the right into their own hands. The note on the windscreen was retrospecting the last warning: ‘If you’re an arrant, ignore this letter’, it said, ‘should But you’re a donor, let’s say you’re destroying our quality of life here.” And on top of that: “There have been tires or paint scratches,” says a police speaker. But that a windscreen is damaged is a new quality.” Mrs Minister, this condition is unbearable, and I urgently urge you to act to ensure that this abuse is resolved quickly. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] As a real superior, I would like to say a few words on the extension of the S 36 between St. Georgen whether Jüdenburg and Scheifling – Mr Grillitsch has already mentioned it. This extension of St. Georgen to Scheifling was a serious birth in the truest sense of the word: Promises, promises, citizens' initiatives for expansion, citizens' initiatives against enlargement, petitions. [[Abg. Binder-Maier: Citizens' Initiatives!]] And that is why I am pleased that the extension will begin in February next year. The approximately 610-metre-long St. Georgen is expected to be completed by the end of 2015; by the summer of 2018, the construction of the Unzmarkt underfloor of around 950 meters and the adaptation of the inventory line will take place. In the final construction, on this section, drivers are available two lanes per direction of travel, using concrete guide walls structurally separate, in order to avoid frontal collisions. With the extension, an accident road section is detached and the overstairs are greatly concerned. However, the Wermutstrophen is that the approximately 12.5 km long route between Judenburg and St. Georgen must be re-started due to extensive project changes and the realization of the best route variant should only take place after 2017. I hope that there will still be enough money, but I trust, Mrs Minister, that you will stand by your word and that this expansion will also be launched. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e38808	Mrs Mag. Lohfeyer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e38830	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! In 2013 there is a continuation of important investments in infrastructure measures for rail and road. Most of them are fixed over longer term agreements, and they are very important investments in the future of our country. The cost of infrastructure measures in Salzburg alone amounts to € 315 million from 2013 to 2018. In addition to ensuring the mobility of people, goods and information, taking into account environmental, social and economic sustainability and ensuring access to transport services, transport safety is one of the objectives of the budget. BMVIT fulfils its mission and has also estimated the necessary budget for 2013. To date, legal measures such as the introduction of the Rescue Gas have already been adopted and investments in numerous successful awareness-raising measures to reduce the number of fatalities by 50 percent by 2020. More safety on our roads should also be achieved through increased research in the field of intelligent transport systems. Whether we are travelling by car or by train, walking on foot or by bike trying to reach our goal, road safety concerns us all. The objective of the transport safety strategy of BMVIT for the years 2011 to 2020 is that Austria should be among the five safest countries. In order to reduce the number of road fatalities, policy measures are necessary. But, of course, it is also the responsibility of each individual and every individual that not only the number of accidents is further reduced, but also the weakest traffic. participants – children, older people or people with handicap – are more and more taken into consideration. Completely in the sense: ‘Handy away at the tax!’ or ‘Without alcohol at the tax!’. I would like to make another correction regarding Mr Hakl's statement. It has claimed that public services to ÖBB have increased by 37 percent since 2010. – Rather, it is true that public services increased by 0.1 percent to ÖBB from 2010 to 2013, but by 12 percent to private railways.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e38872	Mr Ing. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party to the - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e38893	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Today we are dealing with the budget from the section of the Federal Minister Bures, as important factors as research, innovation, technology and transport. We can and should definitely discuss this for hours, because these are ultimately the factors that further develop our location in Austria and cover equally important areas. But this budget, in turn, gives no reason for joy – I'll be right there. Finally, it can be seen that the budget has been frozen, so to speak, and, on inflation, is even a smaller budget. – This is the first point. The second point, more generally held: As I have already said, it is undisputed that research and development are the factors for the further development of our site. A country that continuously invests in these factors – research, development – wisely invests, secures innovation, and innovation is proof of our economic location, our competitiveness and thus our prosperity. Finally, this worse budget is already being used in international rankings. We gradually lose ground. – Here, Madam Minister, you are definitely responsible. It would also be time for us to consider once again a clear strategy for top-level research, including a budget path for at least five years, – and my colleague Gerhard Deimek has already tabled the corresponding resolution – that we are clearly strengthening our view of the knowledge-based and research-based location. The Freedom Party has been arguing for years with proposals in this area of the future. We are for targeted strategic support models. The generous casting pot system is definitely to be reduced. In the field of education, where you should go into discourse with your colleague Schmied, we have long been promoting a contemporary education and higher education. For example, a concentrated promotion of capacity in our Republic would also be crucial, and indeed an elite education. Therefore, we have long been for more specialized universities and more locations such as IST Austria. In the economic field too, we believe that we should focus on centrally controlled funding in the sense of future-oriented support for businesses and projects. And it is also very important to us that we keep the headquarters, the headquarters, in Austria. This is, of course, about tax aspects, about the best-educated and trained citizens, about a further modernisation and expansion of our entire transport infrastructure and transport – something has already been said about this today – and also about the development of technology parks with also the best infrastructure. Mrs Bures, you have the responsibility to ensure that our research and economic location is at last once again on a dynamic ground, that our research and economic concepts are finally revitalized here. I would now like to give you an example from my district, which we have been promoting there since the year 2000: This is a local project, which we launched in 2000 with the internationally recognized tunnel building expert Ing. Walter Neumüller. The aim was to increase jobs, strengthen the local economy and, above all, to relieve the population living there – Hannes Weningerweiß, which I am talking about – in terms of noise and emissions. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The idea of our Mödlinger Freedommen was at the time that we tunneled the section of the outer ring car A 21 from Brunn at the mountains over Gießhübl to Sparbach, so that we can protect the population from noise and also return the emissions there accordingly. This is a highly advanced project, even today. This project is ultimately still in the drawer. I put together the most important arguments of this project: noise definitely away; Emissions over modern filter systems would be almost gone; the current state of chaos in snowfall on this section of the motorway, where the slope is over-dimensionalally large, would fall away; a motorway that simply cuts through the towns would have been past. About the sale of land – this is a very important argument – which lies on the current route of the A21 in this area, could be refinanced project costs – and these are the best plots with a view over Vienna. Unfortunately, this has not yet been considered by some rulers. Austria has excellent global market leader technologies in tunnel construction. They could be used best. By the way, there are also several reference projects which are clearly verifiable, depictable and to be visited. And we would eventually create jobs and strengthen the local economy. Now briefly to the red and black local icons in this area, speak to the mayors. They have been stifled there on a so-called in-house, and state captain Pröll unfortunately plays on this senseless piano. What would a housing in this area mean? – In principle: Cover on it, emissions still there and noise at least partly still there. So, in our opinion, a completely absurd project. Madam Minister, in the past, I have also asked your employees for an appointment in the past, together with Mr Walter Neumüller, the tunnel construction expert, but we have not yet succeeded. Perhaps in the future there is the opportunity to discuss this project with you, it would definitely do well for the innovation location Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e38988	Mr Rädler is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e39011	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Dear representatives of the municipality of Estherberg from Upper Austria, dear Mrs. Mayor, because of the fact that Ortskaiser or Dorfkaiser were also addressed. [[towards gallery]] This is a good word to show what tasks the communities have. In a small community with 150 kilometres of transport routes in rural areas, this discussion, which has ended here today, as I believe, is a little different from just polemic, as has been done here by different people. I now think only of Mr Auer of the SPÖ, who recommended Mr Strache, by train from the 1st century. To travel to the district in order to arrive on time, or to Mrs. Moser, who wants to move a “Moserian transport policy” across Austria, which is geared towards where she is moving herself. [[Deconstratetive appeal to the Greens]] Their policy is focused on Linz and its surroundings, on how to get from Linz to Vienna by train and from Wiener Neustadt to Gloggnitz. The funny thing: to Gloggnitz, that is the way to Mrs. Petrovic. We really do not need a transport policy that is so subjectively oriented. You just recorded the negatives, and then, when you came to the end of your remarks, you said you wanted to address the positives. I expect you to do this today perhaps, you still have time to speak and to address positive transport policy in Austria, Mrs Moser! That would really be a positive contribution here in this House. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We have received the latest data from Eurostat. The third quarter has a small economic downturn in Austria, a tenth reduction in gross domestic product. That should actually give us some thought. [[President Neugebauer shall take over the chairmanship.]] We invest €3 billion in 2013 with this transport budget and regardless of the ÖBB framework programme, which we have decided by 2018, we invest another €2.7 billion, and these are investments that benefit rural areas that benefit transport connections and, of course, Austria's economic location. We need a lot of food. We have invested a lot, for example in the West Railway, there are also very good private examples of how to carry out transport policy differently, but we still have tasks on the South Railway. I am thinking only of the Länder of Styria, Carinthia, who deserved to improve, modernise and adapt the European conditions that we can expect in the future, that we will take off the slow-tracks and that we can really join the freight transport area at last, which is already done on the West Railway, where there is a four-fold higher volume of goods than on the South Railway. This means, of course, disadvantages for the economy in Styria and in Carinthia, and we must counter this. I would like to focus briefly on the public services. Around € 650 million, which will be invested, will benefit the secondary railways, will benefit the private railways and will also return to the rural area. We have 1.6 million counterparts all over Austria waiting for public institutions to be improved so that they do not travel long distances to their In the case of a job, it is necessary to move back to the workplace. We are simply guilty of the commuters, the workers and the workers. Finally, Mrs. Federal Minister: I would like to thank you very much for your initiative “Rettunggasse”, although one has put in place a failure model to fill the summer hole in the media coverage. – I believe in the life alley! You have also mentioned today that rescue organizations are 4 minutes faster at the accident site. With this, we can save human lives! The safety report has been very successful, the number of road fatalities has fallen from 1,800 in the 1970s to 523 in recent years; still far too many, as you have mentioned, but the escape road is a positive contribution. Therefore, we should do everything we can to extend the informational measures to ensure that the rescue gas is also adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e39080	Next speaker: Mr Windholz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e39102	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Traffic is getting more and more, it's no less. I therefore fully understand that in the urban area one considers how to get cars out of the city, and also comes to the city of Vienna immediately to talk to the Parkpickerl theme, because what is happening there is not acceptable. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The red-green government in Vienna has more or less thrown hundreds of thousands of cars out of commuting. What is the background? – To get a park pickerl, you have to take the main residence there. Mr Rädler, you have spoken so great about the communities, what does this mean in the last episode? – People take their headquarters in the city of Vienna, leave Lower Austria, leave Burgenland to come to this park pickerl, for which they of course have to pay. The local tax is very likely to be charged. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! This is an attack on the pendlers, but also an attack on many, many communities in Lower Austria and Burgenland. And the red minister is watching this drive! What would be your responsibility? – It should ensure the appropriate expansion of the infrastructure of the public transport network. I am talking about the Waldviertel, the Weinviertel, the Burgenland – everywhere access routes to the Westbahn or to the Southbahn, which of course should always be accessible with public transport. We're far, far, far away from that. I'm talking about the park-and-ride facilities. Ask the mayor in Schwechat, ask in the SPÖ series what's going on there since the introduction of the additional park pickerl! All this was done by accident. However, there must also be an answer from your department, you must support this, you cannot leave the countries here alone. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In Lower Austria large-area posters are currently on display. The SPÖ-chef, Sepp Leitner, just plays “Strengthening the Communities!” I can only call Sepp Leitner here from this speaker's desk if he really wants to strengthen the Lower Austrian communities, then I recommend him to go to the red chief in Vienna to correct this decision and treat the comrades decently and fairly. It must end with the adversarial towards main residence in Vienna. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I should like to focus on a subject that is very, very worrying in the eastern region, particularly in the eastern region, namely the copper thefts. I can tell you that the S 6 is theft again and again. Mrs Federal Minister, I know you will say, of course, that is what the Ministry of the Interior is responsible for, in a way, also the Ministry of Justice. However, due to the experience gained so far, it must be said that the Ministry of the Interior has completely failed. Officials are saved, overtime is saved, there is no effective fight against this crime. [[In the case of the BZÖ, as well as the members of the FPÖ.]] You're watching the drift. The economic damage is enormous. I can only tell you, the pendlers really have their nose full, they're already really desperated. Every time you drive on this track – stop at once, there is no continuation, rail replacement traffic, of course with all the negative appearances that exist! It doesn't stick to the individual case either, but that happens all the time. What happens then? It goes from the Ministry of the Interior – I just described the situation there – to the Ministry of Justice. There is a very low education rate. If you have a perpetrator, he is sentenced to 15 months in Austria, then he is brought to Slovakia to settle his sentence there, after eight days he walks out of the cell, graces, whatever – and what does he do? He returns to the crime scene and commits a copper theft again. Mrs. Federal Minister, you are a member of a government, you are sitting at the Council of Ministers' meetings vis-à-vis the Minister of the Interior and the Minister of Justice – and I must tell you that this is an unsustainable state! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Citizens as taxpayers have a right to safety. I say to you that these groups of perpetrators are much harder touched, they are actually behind the castle and bars. Take care of orderly conditions! If the Minister of the Interior can't do it – which she unfortunately always proves – then force private security services! I think that's the only logical way out of this mess right now.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e39190	Next speaker: Mr Hell. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e39211	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Transport will, of course, expect all forecasts to continue to increase strongly. It is therefore our political responsibility to take the right measures, namely measures against climate change, for a clean environment and for safe transport. A well-developed public transport of passengers and goods is the requirement that we actually achieve these objectives. Much has already been said about objectives of action. In the detailed budget for rail, one of these objectives is defined as follows: To ensure and promote sustainable mobility of people on the rails. This is an important requirement for the prioritisation of the rail towards the road. The focus is therefore also clearly defined in both environmental and economic terms. The orders of the Federal Government services are fixed longer term. This also includes the public services which have been addressed several times today. They are a prerequisite for the company to be able to adapt to the future accordingly. Ladies and gentlemen! Many, especially from the conservative side, have repeatedly opened up the discussion about railway liberalisation. I'm not holding anything. of which billionaires are to take over prestigious routes and then pay the taxpayers for off-road trains. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Especially in rural areas, we need a good infrastructure for more mobility and also to achieve our climate objectives. It was also said that we are developing regional projects. This includes, for example, the Neunkirchen railway station – because today so much has been talked about the South Railway. It will be rebuilt, barrier-free, to be completed by 2015. The double-track extension of the Pottendorf line – Mr Deimek spoke about it – has also been included in the framework plan for 650 million €. The ÖBB, ladies and gentlemen, are an important transport service provider and one of the most important leading and training companies in Austria. Thousands of railways make sure that trains and buses in general are always on the road on time, day in and day out. With the ÖBB, people and goods are transported incomparablely safer and more environmentally friendly. We should recognize this and appreciate the performance accordingly. Instead of privatising, the development and maintenance of infrastructure must continue to be ensured. This budget proposal has created the conditions for this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e39263	Next speaker: Mr Lausch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e39284	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen in the gallery! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen here in plenary! It already has certain advantages if one has not been the first to speak but has already heard something. To the SPÖ's transport spokesperson: Mr Heinzl, you too have bowed down where it went, but even you have found it difficult to praise the Minister or the infrastructure! You too have put your criticism in place, and yes, you are quite right. Unfortunately God is most of the track in Austria from the time of the monarchy, unfortunately God is aged, there are many slow journeys, no offer for the economy. Mrs Bundesminister, from your remarks you could really see a certain West Railway laziness. – Yes, it’s a lot in order on the Westbahn, unfortunately on the other routes in Austria many things God’s not all right. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This has changed little to nothing in your “government” since 2008. But, Mrs. Federal Minister, you say the Austrians are proud of your train. – You may be right, but you really do not make it easy for the afflicted population to be proud of this train! For example, we think only of the ticket machines, in which the population, especially the older population, knows little to no end. If you continue on the platform and wait for the train, you hear the passage: The train's late! Although often only minimal, delays from five to ten minutes are on the agenda. Then get in the train – you paid a seat! –, you only get a standing place. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Gaßner.]] – You are not commuting, my colleague. Instead of a seat you paid, you get a standing place. [[New call for tender of the Abg. May. Gaßner.]] – If you listen, you could learn something. [[Abg. May. Gaßner: I can't learn from you!]] You will receive a standing place even though you have paid a seat. In addition, there are mostly one-track railway lines in Austria, and that, Mrs Federal Minister, is of course, one is waiting for freight trains in the railway stations, and there are delays again. Do you know what the Quintessence is all about? – At last you arrive at the destination station – and then the connecting bus is gone because the train has five to ten minutes delay and the bus is also driving according to timetable that is to be observed! That's the Quintessence, and I can only tell you: Be glad that so many Austrians are still proud of this train that is being led by you! One thing I have to say: I do not know whether the results of the Buntmetall thefts – Mr Windholz has addressed them – which are on the agenda, which make the population absolutely proud of the people. They won't make it. It would have been a long time to think about installing a train police. Do you know what's on the agenda in my home district of Hollabrunn? – making police in civilians Service on the train to protect the population there and to see that everything remains non- and nailproof there. That is the consequence in a border district, but we do not always try to speak up! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You probably think now: Yes, the liberals again! – I would like to tell you that in the Hollabrun district, the SPÖ has long stopped praising you or the SPÖ. [[Cheerfulness at the FPÖ.]] Look at this! In the past, the red ÖBB was abused for election campaign purposes. They've been distributed in times of election to Kipferl and schedules. You don't do that any more, because you probably don't want to upset the proud population in the early days. [[Interference of Federal Minister Bures.]] Do you know why the SPÖ in the district? Hollabrunn doesn't do this anymore? Do you know why she doesn't do that anymore? – Because she can't listen to the criticism of the comrades anymore, colleague Heinzl! Take the train and you'll see all of this and know everything! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If you also say that on the street everything is fine, then I think a member of yours – I didn't say anything to the chicken. [[Abg. Heinzl: What did you say to the chicken?]] The city councillor of Retz could sing a song of how she often bows and in the media also has to justify what's going on with the streets. Her own party in the district says that at the street you take no further than on the rail, and distance yourself. Do you know what the chairman says there? – The only thing that connects you and him is the party book and not anymore. That's all, that's the Quintessence of your policy! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In the wine district prefer They are tolerated by the ASFINAG, with the help of the black country the district of Mistelbach. They prefer the district of Mistelbach and starve the district of Hollabrun. Bad train connections, delays, a bad road, no measures for the infrastructure, nothing at all – it also looks like economic power and purchasing power there. The only thing that gets too small on a regular basis is the park-and-ride facilities, because more and more people have to commute because the jobs are getting less and less. So, unfortunately, you can't do anything to God at all. Mrs. Federal Minister, let's not always talk about everything, there are enough construction sites in your resort! Take care of it! Make fewer campaigns, but use this money to implement meaningful projects! And if you're already making campaigns, always tell the taxpayer what it costs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e39387	Next speaker: Mr Eßl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e39408	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Stable finances are a prerequisite for a successful future, and it is therefore important that we consolidate the state budget, the federal budget. This is an urgent task. We are better on the road than other countries in Europe and in the world, but there is, of course, a need for effort, and it is also necessary to put employment policy impulses in the budget. It is important that we have a good infrastructure. We are committed by the EIA to a well developed infrastructure, to a modern infrastructure, not only in urban areas, but also in rural areas, in the regions. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] As Salzburger, I would also like to mention some projects that are important, which are partly under construction, which are partly planned: the Hagenau half-connector, for example, the three-way extension from Salzburg to Freilassing with the necessary accompanying measures, the Straßwalchen West stop or the Hallwang-Elixhausen station, which is very important in addition to the construction and renovation of the Salzburg Main Station, the urgently needed new construction of the high-performance line, the Bad Vigaun railway crossing, the extension of the Mattigtal railway or also – for me – the Enns-Pongau motorway connection. We are committed to these measures, and in the interests of taxpayers, we also have to consistently pay attention to the efficient use of the means of taxation. I am also familiar with noise protection measures, but please be careful and with expertise, because when I am on the West motorway, I have the impression in some places that the forest behind it is protected from noise and from the views of the drivers. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] I therefore call for a proper use and a careful handling of the means of taxation. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] A word to pay for public service benefits: € 655.7 million flow to the ÖBB, 68.2 million in private railways. And Mr Haberzettl is speaking here of social policy. Yes, I am also in favour of slow rail transport, but if we use public funds, please do not criticise this in other areas where we use public funds for public services. I call, for example, the environmental programme for farmers, in which about the same sum goes to over 100 000 farmers' families, as a levy for public services. I would like us to be as consistent as the ÖBB, because the ÖBB have almost a monopoly in public services. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] My recommendation – not to say, my request – is that we call out these public services in the future. Competition does not harm. The Court of Auditors has found that the ÖBB received 92 percent over the period 2000 to 2009 and only 8 percent went to 17 other smaller railway companies.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e39471	Mrs Bures is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e39492	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I have been talking about the future of mobility in the country and transport policy 17 minutes ago. I am also so important in the field of technology and innovation in our country that you will allow me to spend another three minutes, but first a minute to start the discussion. I think, Mr Lausch, that you have made a presentation of our country, as you are obviously the only one to perceive, namely: [[Interim calls at the FPÖ]] The train doesn't drive, the train is standing, the train is always too late. – I just want to tell you, I think it’s facts and data, and I don’t think that we should do a hack there, no one has anything of it. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. It's funny.]] If we look at the punctuality of the track, I can tell you – you can also download it every day on the Internet –: In 2011 and also in 2012 – by the end of September – the ÖBB had a punctuality rate of 96.6 percent. This means that 530 000 passengers come to the destination daily with the ÖBB, because the railways work hard. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I don't think anything about it – that's perhaps your idea – to abuse the railways Party-politically, to have them spread flags, they're not there for that. I don't value it. I value a powerful, punctual train where people work hard, and so is. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I'm never afraid of responsibility. I take responsibility. I think that is also the task of a minister or a minister. What I do not like is to be held accountable for things that are not within my area of responsibility, so I would like to bring you once again the press release on the Linz-Graz link. “Oberösterreichische Nachrichten”, heading: ‘Regional railways: 490,000 kilometres shall be deleted.’; - Then it goes on to say: “The state government decided yesterday on the savings budget for public transport. 490,000 train and bus kilometres will be the victim of the reductions from 2011 onwards.” “The country’s Rotstift is one of the victims of the quick link between Linz and Graz.” That is why I would like to say to you once again: The Greens also share responsibility for this reduction, but no one has anything of it. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: What does co-responsibility mean?]] [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Do you know what we're paying?]] I'll take care of a solution. You can rely on that, something will be done. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: This is a federal task, Linz–Graz, that is not a regional railway!]] And now, ladies and gentlemen, technology. It's like this: There is the Council for Research and Technology Development, it has prepared a report and, moreover, has no criticism, Mrs Lichtenecker, on the funding of technology and applied research. There are criticisms, but they do not fall within my sphere of competence. There have been no criticisms in the field of technology and innovation. I think it's sensational – all the speakers of the House have said that we need a new dynamic in research and technology, it's about innovation, it's about value creation – that in as difficult budgetary times as we currently have it, we can achieve a six percent increase: 406 million flow annually into technology and innovation, around 25 million more this year, 25 million more next year, 30 million more in the next year. So it will get the dynamics we need so that we can also support the companies that are research-intensive in their activities, so that in research and technology, where we have technology leadership, we can continue to support these companies in further developing and strengthening their FTI intensity. It is about having many young innovative companies that are developing the most excellent technical solutions, developing prototypes of which we could all have a social benefit, but which then do not create the entry into the market. With more money and the resulting dynamic, we will in future encourage young companies not only to make a product out of one idea, but also to market this product, which brings value added and employment. Thirdly, we will invest in production technologies because Austria is a research and production site, which is very important. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: That's reasonable!]] I have already increased the production technology budget by 40 percent this year, and we will again have a real focus next year. With all due regard to the fact that the opposition criticises the government, this is in the nature of the matter, but in the field of technology and innovation one should also see the budget we have, the programmes, the evaluations carried out in all the FFG programmes on my part. Moreover, the evaluation of the research premium in the Income Act is mandatory, and the Ministry of Finance, which is responsible, will adopt a regulation because: Trust is good, control is better. The money has to be put in good shape. Therefore, there will be this evaluation, and we must work together to ensure that there is more reliability that there is longer-term financing opportunities. However, this still requires discussions, but I like it a lot. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e39611	Next speaker: Mrs Gartelgruber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e39632	Mr President. Minister! High house! Mrs Minister, I already have to disagree vehemently with what you have accused my colleague Lausch, because what Mr Lausch has presented to us here is the sad reality in Austria. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The fact that you can't lose your rosarote or red glasses doesn't help the railway customers in Austria. But now again on the subject of transport, in particular on the objectives of action and the important measures you have spoken about. You said that mobility would be secure in Austria and that it would be necessary to invest in transport, especially in freight and passenger transport. The framework of the BMVIT 2013 to 2018 for Tyrol also lists the expansion of the freight station Terminal Wörgl West. I think this measure is very useful, but I would like to point out that in this commercial area, which has been established for 20 years, very many employees are also employed and this has also created a great donor potential. You have also explained that it is important for you that the commuters take the train to work. I would now like to turn to you and make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I would like to point out that this proposal has already been adopted unanimously in the Tyrolean Landtag – and I am now excited how the Members of the Government Party will vote there. Another issue is very important to me, which is the railjet-halt in the Tiroler Unterinntal. They know that it would be very possible if there was a political will to keep the railjet in the Tyrol Unterinntal hourly, and it would also be easy to integrate cities such as Kufstein and Wörgl. For this reason, the municipality of Wörgl has also filed a petition in the National Council this week. I supported this and would like to quote briefly from it: “In addition, we allow ourselves to point out the implementation plan for electric mobility in and from Austria by the Federal Ministry of Forestry, Environment and Water Management, the Federal Ministry of Transport, Innovation and Technology and the Federal Ministry of Economic Affairs, Family and Youth of June 2012, in which it is explicitly necessary to demand and promote environmental public transport at all destinations.” Mrs Minister, I will give you this petition immediately and submit the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e39742	The two motions for resolutions are under negotiation. The two applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e39853	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Gartlehner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e39874	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! I am referring to the research and development segment of your ministry, and I can only emphasize, as have colleagues from the coalition group, but also from the opposition, that we can again record a strongly growing research budget in the coming year. Austria is thus absolutely the world's leader in public research expenditure in the OECD sector, and no other country offers more research programmes and research activities. Even where good research policy is being made in the federal states, there are positive exploiters such as the Styria, which has now reached a target research rate of 4.6 percent. Unfortunately, the situation in Upper Austria is developing slightly negatively; this is a long-lasting process that unfortunately started with the departure of Christoph Leitel. I believe that the Austrian funding landscape within the framework of the FFG offers really good conditions. We have covered virtually all major research areas and economic sectors with research programmes. An important demand from me, already from 2007, is that production research should be significantly increased, because Austria will only survive as a production site. In the meantime, this has been followed. There has even been an infrastructural research programme, and I also expect very positive effects from these two areas. I believe that we really have the potential to rise to a small global leader in some segments, especially in the field of production research, renewable energy, but also in the infrastructure sector, and we are very optimistic that this support from BMVIT will also be given in this direction in the future. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e39907	Next speaker: Mr Klubobmann Ing. Lugar. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e39936	Mr President. High house! My very dear television viewers! I have once again spoken, although my colleague Hagen has already done so very well. Mr Hagen has referred to a number of points, but she has not found it worth considering the specific points here. That is why I would like to highlight this again. The ÖBB are a problem – and that has been a problem for decades. That is, for decades we have been having problems with the ÖBB. It sends more and more tax money to the ÖBB. The Court of Auditors believes that it is up to €6 billion a year, which are, as it were, cross-subsidized by the taxpayer. Now ÖVP says again and again, there must be a reform. I can still remember that in 2008, Mr Lopatka was still in office and dignity as Secretary of State, he said at the time that there was a lot to change with the ÖBB, to improve a lot. There has always been pressure from the ÖVP. Unfortunately, nothing has been implemented, it's all the same as then. Mr Spindelegger has done something that I consider to be very high: More than two months ago, he asked Mr Stronach, in the absence of his own opportunities, to look at the ÖBB on the right. That was very smart. ==References====External links== September said that the ÖBB is just a business, where the taxpayer's huge resources flow, and that's why he wants to talk to Frank Stronach to have his expertise on how we can make it better for the ÖBB and how we can introduce reforms in this area. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Hagen.]] Now, of course, Mr Frank Stronach has said, of course, he gives his expertise, his assistance, and has written a letter to the woman minister in which he asks her to agree a meeting to which he takes away his experts who, of course, he pays, that is not a question. He would take with him, on his own account, the Minister of State in a conversation and put the facts and facts on the table here to see what we can do better with the ÖBB. And what happened? – Mrs. Minister wrote back quite fluently: If there is a need, you will report. [[Federal Minister Bures: Please write the whole letter!]] That's almost a month ago, and there seems to be no need. There seems to be no need for you to look at the right here, but Mr Spindelegger – that is not anyone – to ask for help here. We then provide this assistance, but there seems to be no need for the Minister. And that's the problem. That we put together once, put the facts and facts on the table and then go to work with good solutions here, that is what we need. And when we look at the ÖBB, we have to say that there is enough need. We know from the international comparison that the 40 000 who are busy there are a lot too much. We know that 4 million overtimes are made, although the workforce is very, very high in international comparison. We know that there is still much earlier retirement than in the Austrian average, at 52, 53 years, as well as in the Court of Auditors, in the case of best health. – All these things have to be addressed once. [[Abg. Nice pass: Stay with the truth!]] [[Abg. Heinzl: This is the untruth!]] As regards the infrastructure and the other problems with outsourced debt: This too has to be addressed. Frank Stronach has reached out, and you, Mrs. Minister, are really well advised, from my point of view, to take this hand, to sit at a table with him and his experts, to put everything on the table – and then together we can find a good solution for the ÖBB. I think this is in everyone's interest, because in the end, billions are lost, and we don't have such a big deal that we can afford it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e40054	Next speaker: Member of the European Parliament. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e40075	Mr President. Estimated Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen in the High House! I would particularly like to welcome a class from the Bundesgymnasium Mödling, who attends the debate today. [[Complementary with ÖVP and SPÖ as well as with the orders of FPÖ and BZÖ.]] In short, to my previous speaker: Your transport expertise, Mr. Lugar, has already proved that you know how to secure the ticket. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the ÖVP.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! The high-performance line between Vienna and St. Pölten will be opened on Friday. This is proof of the policy of a head of state, who knows how to conduct regional policy, how we can advance an entire area by means of infrastructure development measures and develop a high-performance route in the framework of the TEN, the trans-European network, together with the Federal Minister. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Deimek]] That's very important. We also need to create this networking between the federal states, because the red and green chaos in Vienna, especially the park picker diktat, shows us a huge problem for the surrounding communities. We need to spend huge resources to build park-and-ride sites. [[Abg. May. Steinhauser: It makes sense!]] – It makes sense, in the vote, if you perhaps first create the infrastructure and then consider the dictatorship, my dear friend! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. May. Steinhauser.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] But you don't know what's going on in the communities around the country. We have to spend considerable resources, and I hope that we can move a lot – budgeted by the federal government – too. Progress is also relatively limited in the budget. I believe that this will have to be improved, because the East-Region Transport Association is growing enormously and has always to do new tasks. It is therefore important to keep public transport attractive to the population in the surrounding region of Vienna. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Steinhauser.]] The public services have already been mentioned; I am also in favour, and we are committed to the fact that it is politically our measure to continue to run uneconomically and perhaps not so profitable routes – and that is also good. Unfortunately, we see a different reality in freight transport. There is a political decision on public services, and in the case of Rail Cargo Austria, the funds for public services are quite welcome, but the benefits are not maintained only to improve balance sheets. Closes of loading sites are planned; ten out of 14 loading points are closed in Burgenland alone, which means 95 trucks a day more on our roads. – This is not the meaning of this measure. I believe that it may also be pointed out that further reforms are being carried forward in the public service law of the ÖBB, because I believe that service law is not only a so-called Heinzelmänn in politics, but there are many Heinzelmännchen active in the ÖBB. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Deimek]] [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] At this point I should like to thank all the public transport staff, because it is the ladies and gentlemen who are driving the buses, which in part also direct our school buses, which bring many, many thousands of Austrians in public transport safely from A to B. These reigns deserved our thanks. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mrs Bundesminister, I have yet to make a critical comment: It is known that the fish start to smell at the head. The Chairman of the Supervisory Board of ÖBB already has a lot of pending processes: Terminal Tower Linz, Rechtszentrum Wien Mitte, MÁV Cargo, Nordbergstraße – the files are there. I may also refer to the “Falter”, take a look at it! [[The speaker shows an issue of the “Falter”.]] I'm just asking the question: How long is this Supervisory Board chairman still portable?
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e40183	Next speaker: Mrs Bayr. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e40204	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! In 2010, the Federal Government, countries and municipalities jointly implemented €886 million as part of the public procurement of products and services. This is first of all very relevant for the economy as transparent offers make it possible to compare, as quality products and energy-saving technologies contribute to dealing responsibly with tax money. However, public procurement has not only a national economic component, but also quality standards that can be set with it, because if intelligent, sustainable and innovative products or services are requested and purchased in large quantities by the public authorities, they are also available to private and business owners and they are also much cheaper from the price. I very much welcome the fact that the Ministry of Transport and the Ministry of Economic Affairs have a task force and a guiding concept for innovation-oriented procurement. BMVIT also has two pilot projects in this context, together with the ASFINAG and the ÖBB, and new calls for tenders are planned for 2013. As has been said, the issue of public procurement is, on the one hand, the sparing use of means of taxation, but on the other hand, the issue of setting standards of content. For example, it is already possible for the Federal Ministries to obtain paper, detergents or information technology according to ecological criteria. For example, the Association of Hospitals may insist that there are biological standards in the food it buys. In Vienna there has recently been a point system that also takes into account gender criteria, gender aspects in the award of studies, for example of cleaning services. What I would like to do is to extend the procurement practice even further in terms of content and go towards ethical criteria – keyword fair trade. However, it is also very important to create legal certainty. So if, for example, the city of Liezen believes that it needs new uniforms for its fire brigade or new granite pavements in front of the town hall, then it would be desirable for the mayor of Liezen, Mr. Hakel, to go back with all legal security and insist that on the one hand, the textiles of fire brigade uniforms, which come very often from developing countries, are produced in a way that no people need to be exploited or work with toxic chemicals, and that granite comes from a quarry in front of the town hall where there is no child labour. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] As I said, public procurement is a powerful instrument. We should also use it much more in terms of content, and I believe it is a real opportunity for a coherent development policy procurement. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e40259	Next speaker: Mr Einwallner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e40280	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! Those who are well placed in research, innovation and technology have a foothold in the door for the future. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This foot in the door secures us competitiveness and creates jobs – and this is a course to which we as the ÖVP clearly confess ourselves. With a share of 2.8 percent of gross domestic product in 2012, the research rate in Austria has been increased by 4.2 percent compared to 2011 – and, Mr. Collegue, it does not fall. This is a course that must be continued. Mr Höbart said earlier in his speech that everything was sinking. – That’s not right, because the investments are rising. It is very important to me as a youth representative that we have stable state finances and that we reduce debt, but it is also very important that we take offensive action. Targeted offensive measures are good investments, and we have planned them in this area. For example, additional funds will be available in the field of research, innovation and technology in the coming years – consider: more than €500 million by 2016, of which €100 million in 2013. For the applied research, € 110 million is planned. It is also mentioned here that the budget will be increased for universities and colleges. This additional dispensation will also become 46 percent research effective. These investments help to strengthen competitiveness in Austria. Research, innovation and technology are the key to sustainable economic growth. Especially – and this is important to me – for young people in our country, this means the opportunity for additional jobs, for example by further strengthening cooperation between the economy and research. It has already been mentioned today: The Styria has a high target research rate of 4.6 percent, and it is very important that the contribution that is being made there is also made in the other federal states. The total public contribution is 39 percent. Although the economic situation is not simple, Austria has one of the lowest rates of youth unemployment across Europe. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In order for this to remain – this is important – and more jobs can be created for young people, healthy government expenditure and measures to create jobs are needed. This budget has succeeded in making the right investment in the field of research, innovation and technology. I conclude by saying: Who is fit and for the added future needs to invest in FIT.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e40343	Next speaker: Mr Kirchgatterer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e40365	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I can very warmly welcome the guests from the municipality of Schlößlberg in the district of Grieskirchen. For us Social Democrats, it is important that it has succeeded in developing and implementing, in the field of research, innovation and technology, employment offensive, forward-looking solutions, which are also adopted in practice. I would particularly like to stress and stress that the innovative power, the strength of innovation of small and medium-sized enterprises, is now increasingly being used, the programmes are tailored to them. These programmes are included in this budget. This will open up new opportunities for good jobs, for future-oriented companies in our country. This also corresponds to the operating structure of the Austrian economy. For example, I would like to introduce the innovation check for small and medium-sized enterprises. Already in 86 establishments of this size, it is accepted in our region – Eferding, Grieskirchen, Wels-Stadt and Wels-Land – and strengthens its development. Ladies and gentlemen! The budget budget is a welcome one. How the funds are used corresponds to the very successful employment policy and the Austrian farm structure and will have positive effects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e40398	Next speaker: Mr Mayer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e40419	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I originally wanted to say something to and for myself about space research and infrastructure and to focus on the impressive performance show that took place in the column hall. But I have to say something about the famous S18 – Wagelkönig – and to other connections, because of the statements made by my Vorarlberg colleagues. I am particularly referring to the fact that two colleagues, Mr Themessl and Mr Hagen, have spoken, both of whom are still on the run from the main cause of this problem, Hubert Gorbach. [[Call:Hagen]] For you, Mr Hagen, he was both the political leader, as a federal councillor at FPÖ and for you as councillor and countryman; You know that, Mr. Themessl. The one went from the FPÖ to the BZÖ together with Gorbach, and now it has run away again; Gorbach is excluded anyway and also gone, but there is a lot going on. No one acknowledges anything, and there is no point in trying to blame the Parliament of the Minister or the Ministry for failure which is clearly with the country. You yourself know: Hubert Gorbach, whom you so highly revered, was a street construction councillor and forced this project – S18 – even though it was clear from the beginning that it was not to be implemented. Painfully, the whole thing was set up by the Verwaltungsgerichtshof exactly in the Gorbach era. Now, after the failure of the state government in all areas – and there was not only the Wagelkönig to blame, but the Wagelkönig was Hubert Gorbach, who confounded the matter there – you come out and pretend that all the problems we have in Vorarlberg, in the Lake Constance and in the cross-border traffic, are the faults of the Minister. Of course, the Ministry of Transport and Infrastructure needs to do a lot about this, but the causes of these problems lie in a completely different area, which lies – which is clearly clear – in your area. And because we're already talking about what happened here: I was interested – because we also discussed this in committee – in the same way as the AIT, which has taken a happy development, was actually how it happened at all. And that's the cause again. I can remember – President Graf is not here now, but I am allowed to quote briefly from the “profile” of June this year –: “In 2000, the Ministry of Infrastructure of FPÖ had been awarded. The management posts, department heads, board of directors and supervisory councils in the distributed companies of the Federal Government, which were assigned to the FPÖ Ministry, were hand-picked. This also included the research center Seibersdorf, which was completely restructured. Graf became Managing Director of a subsidiary of the Forschungszentrum, ARC Business Services GmbH in 2003. A little further in the back, it says: “After six years of blue rule, the company was on the verge of insolvency in autumn 2006. The Court of Auditors noted in its 2009 audit report serious management errors, unclear use of research funds, misbooked funds and an unjustified premium payment to Martin Graf.” – And so on, and so on. Now it is a pleasure – and this is also a compliment, Mrs. Minister, which I would like to express to you – that you can see – not only with the ÖBB, but also with many other construction sites that we have inherited from the infrastructure ministers; one of the brightest was said to be Hubert Gorbach; I quote the managing director of the AIT Dipl.-Ing. Anton Plimon –: With a profit of “2.1 million. AIT is able to report positively for the fourth consecutive year and has also provided a stable and satisfactory operating performance in 2011. ( ) After three strong years of consolidation, we are now investing profits in the strategic development of the company." A better example of how to make a demonstration company out of a rehabilitation case, out of FPÖ-caused situations, is probably not there, and I would like to congratulate very warmly, Mrs Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e40456	No further words are available. The topics of transport, innovation, technology, including research are thus dealt with. [[11:58:32]] UG 25: Family and Youth [[11:58:33]] UG 33: Economy (Research) [[11:58:34]] UG 40: Economy
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e40491	We now come to the negotiation of subheadings 25: Family and Youth, 33: Economy (Research), as well as 40: Economy. We debate all the issues together. Mrs Kitzmüller. — (DE) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European Please, Mrs. Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e40519	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Today we are talking about the budget that concerns the families. I was actually expecting that we could find a little more for the families at the budget. - That's not the case. Obviously, this government does not again pay particular attention to the issue of family. Otherwise, it cannot be explained that there have been no adjustments in value for more than ten years – neither in the family allowance nor in the childcare allowance. Over this decade, the actual loss of value in the case of family allowances and child care benefits is around 25 percent by inflation and non-adjustment. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Riepl.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] As we know, the allowance for child care is a success story, but it has been taken care of for just ten years, which has been introduced under the leadership of the Freedom Party at the time, but has never been re-adapted. But that's not the only problem we have with the families. It is also necessary to abolish the limit on the amount of child care paid at the end of the day. This is also required by well-known experts, such as Professor Mazal. Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, I would remind you that Professor Mazal mentioned this and made a recommendation in this regard. A request in this respect is – or, I do not know – also in the Committee. We also believe that the deductibility of child care costs must be extended by the end of the 14th century. Year of life. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] For children between the 10th and the 14th, too. Year of life must be cared for, especially during holidays. Therefore, I would like to make the following request: Resolution by Mr Kitzmüller and other Members on extending the availability of child care costs The National Council wants to decide: “The Federal Government is invited to forward to the National Council a government template which provides for an extension of the possibility of deduction of child care costs – as an exceptional burden within the meaning of § 34 EStG – until the end of the fourteenth year of life.” [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In my opinion, this matter would also be extended, because the promotion of education should also be included in the inclusion of follow-up hours, gymnasiums, music lessons. Another building site in the family area is the family compensation fund, as we know. The family tax compensation fund currently has a minimum of approximately €3.6 billion and is expected to be positive with around €470 million by 2018. How does that work? – It can only work in such a way that families are still starved by not making the necessary adjustments in value. At the expense of the family, this fund is reorganised and balanced. – Not difficult then, is it? – Save at the expense of the families! All this while we have increasing numbers of young people and children living close to the poverty line. We must experience that more and more of them are coming across the poverty line, especially if we also see the development of the costs that families have to face: This amounted to 11.6 percent of heating oil in comparison with one year plus 11.6 percent, fuel – families have to be mobile – plus 7 percent, and the cost of weekly purchase of daily supplies has increased by about 4 percent. Families have no lobby, ladies and gentlemen. We have to take care of our families! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] To relieve the families, we need a compact, complete discharge package and no flicking work. Our families must not become bitters. Families and their services for our children must again be given the priority they rightly deserve! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The achievements of mothers, fathers, housewives and housemen, who are priceless for Austria and for our families, must be given the priority they deserve!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e40682	The two motions for resolutions tabled are under negotiation. The applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e40765	Next speaker: Mrs Steibl. Please, Mrs. Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e40787	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Kitzmüller von der FPÖ: Instead of pity, listen! They obviously did not listen and therefore do not know that it is planned to make an index adjustment in the case of family aid. [[Interlocutory calls for representatives of the FPÖ]] [[Abg. Petzner: What is the Remler doing?]] You have also, I believe, not really listened to the budget negotiations, otherwise you knew that despite budget consolidation, more money is spent on families, totaling € 6.556 billion, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Petzner: Mrs Steibl, what is the Remler doing?]] And in the case of family benefits, unlike what you promote, we advocate a balanced mix of money, tax and property benefits in order to offer our families the best possible freedom of choice. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] Necessary and important investments in the compatibility of family and work are continued, such as the financing of the Free Kindergarten, such as the expansion of institutional childcare for children under 3 years of age. The budgetary priorities are also the promotion of advisory services, for example for parental education, for example for the family advisory services in the countries that do immensely good work and where you can say more than ever thank you – knowing that it is never enough for funding, but that is a very, very big focus also in the impact goals. – Ladies and gentlemen, this is the 2013 budget. Now to the next forward-looking steps. Federal Minister Mitterlehner plans with us – hopefully with the government partner in the boat – a new funding model to support families even better. For example, it is planned to make family support easier, more transparent, more transparent. In other words, higher family allowances in three stages, higher siblings and a higher supplement for children with disabilities. All of this is a package that is true – what it says is so beautiful: Families know what households mean; and so do we: Not less, but more; just so that you can manage well with it. Summary: The proposed family aid is a new model for the future and strengthens the families as the foundation of our society. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It would really be time, especially in this area, in this sensitive area, which concerns all – men such as women, children, young people, young people and older people – to put the speeches of the language slightly differently. How did I say? – It is not a pity, it is a matter of action!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e40855	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Musiol. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e40876	Mr President. Minister! Values listeners! Yes, what is the impact of this family budget? – I would like to take three goals: to improve more father participation, to improve the compatibility of family and work, and more births. Now, at first glance, these are goals where I say: Yes, I can sign it! You could think we weren't so far apart. However, if you look at the way in which politics has gone up to now and what is proposed or budgeted on the other hand, then you have to be careful to take care of family policy, because we know that these objectives have always been and will be formulated in the public debate, but we are far from keeping them. If you speak, Mrs Steibl, of “our families”, of freedom of choice and of a balanced mix, then we also know what is meant by “our families”, namely those families you mean, the classical father-mother-one-to-multi-children-families, but not the families we mean. Let us look at these objectives more precisely, for example, the question of compatibility between family and profession. The central piece – and I think we will all be in agreement – is the question: Is it possible for both parents to pursue an activity? Is it possible for both parents to pursue full employment due to existing childcare facilities – children's education facilities, as we call them? And that's where you have to say: No, it's not. This may be possible in some districts in Vienna, in some regions in Austria, but it is certainly not possible for all Austrian mothers and fathers to pursue an activity they want to pursue; and not because there are no jobs – and this is a problem, of course, of course – but because there are no childcare and afternoon care facilities. I do not want to agree, Mr Minister, that you are trying to be here – this is sometimes very beneficial what we are discussing here in committee. But you are, as it were, the Federal Minister, and we know that there is a division of competence in this area. And what I miss is more train to say, Yes, it is an important goal to unite the opportunities and opportunities of all children in Austria and also of all parents in Austria and not of individual mayors who are then benevolent or unfavorable, of individual councillors, councillors, heads of state and, above all, of their Ideological access depends on whether we find appropriate care facilities. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] That's what we're saying quite clearly: There needs to be a federal competence here, it needs uniformity here, so that it does not depend on the postal code whether you find a place or not. This is not only about the quantity – we have already talked about it, and you have already set up activities there – but above all about the quality, and I have previously consciously used the word “child training institution” – a word that is of course not usual. Most people talk about kindergartens, but explore that this is the first important educational institution, non-domestic educational institution for children – the pedigrees, the mother-in-laws and the kindergartens. They must therefore be equipped with appropriate quality. This begins with the group size and goes to the training of the educators. Then, when Minister Schmied and Minister Dädele introduce a “pedagogical education new” here, I miss that quite clearly also the elementary pedagogues, the pedagogists for the little ones and the little ones are shared from the beginning. Without a “pedagogical training new” for all educators, we will not achieve that we get this quality in all facilities. We will not achieve it without this federal competence. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I have already said it, I believe that you are quite beneficial about ordinary EIA politicians, but you are not alone in the EIA. It is likely that some ÖVP officials are pleased that their views do not fully prevail, but the question is already: In what direction does this government – not just ÖVP and SPÖ – want to go in the next few years? If we look at this family budget and, above all, the budget in the field of childcare, we must say that the sentence “Our children are the most important thing”, which we have already made public in the last few days, but also in the last few days, is already going to be empty, in view of what is being invested in education and, above all, in elementary education. The second area is the participation of fathers. We have only recently heard a presentation by the Minister for Women about the funds to increase father participation in her budget. They answered a question here and pointed out that there were awareness-raising measures for father participation. This is all important – 1,4, 1,5 million € – but let us be honest, we all know that it is not necessarily the Father's awareness of whether they can participate – these fathers already exist – but that it is mainly the framework conditions. I have already mentioned the one, namely the question of childcare and also the possibility of being able to pursue, as it were, very close after the birth of a job, in order to achieve about the same income, so that the family can survive, even if the father withdraws from the job and becomes more involved. But the second part is of course the question: How do companies deal with this? And we get many feedbacks, I get many feedbacks, not only from the private sector, but also from the public service, where fathers say they would have liked to participate, they would have liked to take the full number of months in the area of child money, they would have liked to get a papa month – the SPÖ and ÖVP fully announced in the coalition agreement have, but have not yet implemented – and it is not possible! On the one hand, it is not legal as far as the Papa-Monat is concerned, but it is not, above all, because the companies, the employers, are clearly putting obstacles in place. And that's actually changed! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Therefore, as a first step for the father's participation, we demand an automated father-month, because then there is no excuse, then there is a claim by the father to be able to establish a contact with his child within the first months, to be able to participate in family work, an automated father-month in full reference. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Worm.]] This must, as it were, be possible: an automated Papa month, that is, a legal claim. Then there will be no more opportunity for entrepreneurs to say you let me and I won't let you. Last point, birth rate: I would have a proposal on how to at least raise birth rates minimally – we have already made very specific proposals, but above all the ÖVP should skip already very large ideological obstacles –: There are many people who cannot have children on a natural basis, not only heterosexual couples, but also couples, who are not a couple because of their sexual orientation, but also a couple. Due to medical progress, there would be the opportunity to satisfy this child’s desire – in the form of in vitro fertilization, in the form of insemination and much more. But what this government does is to say: We determine who has a right to submit to this medicine. – And so it is legal that only heterosexual couples can undergo reproductive medicine. That is, single women, same-sex couples have no way at all. And who are we, our legislators, that we prescribe individual women whether they can comply with their child's desire or not? – This is urgently changed, and this would be a small step towards increasing the birth rate. But, of course, the family policy frameworks are also a different step. So in this sense, Minister: Keep going! Convince your colleagues in your party, convince the countries! And if you make sensible proposals, then we are there.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e41000	Next speaker: Mrs Binder-Maier. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e41022	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Family policy means politics for children to shape and shape policies for people with children. In my opinion, this family policy is characterised by fundamental social values, values and, of course, support systems and support systems for families, for children, for young people. A fundamental comment from me: Ladies and gentlemen, for us the term family is very broad. For us, it is about shaping the cohabitation of people with children in such a way that it is respectful that it is loving to be responsible and also equal from children to adults, from adults to children. The narrow concept, Mrs Kitzmüller, no longer corresponds to reality. I refer to a study by the University of Vienna, the Institute of Practical Theology, under the title “The End of the Family?”, which says that the age of the family as a marriage was between 1955 and 1965 and – as it continues in this study – that in the present age family is above all a solidarity community and also a generation union. In summary, this study states that family still has an important role in people's lives, but that family is developing and changing again and again and that many Austrians aged 18 to 29 now give friends, acquaintances equal importance to the family. However, the study has also shown current focus, namely: narrower, later window of family start-up, gender roles and also the delimitations between working and living time. Changed lifestyles require new decision-making spaces, support systems and framework conditions. The budget framework for family breakdown is slightly rising. Many areas are involved in this – from family support to child care money – a clear no to the absolute abolition of the earnable limit, to the free rides for students and young people. Mr Federal Minister, once again the request and memory of our target group, from which we wish she would be included in the enjoyment of the top ticket. All the way to child care services. We also have a clear yes to extend the care facilities, because, as evidenced by a written reply from the Minister of Finance, it has shown that the tax deductibility of child care costs is not collected or cannot be used for low tax revenue. In summary, ladies and gentlemen: There are many suggestions from you, from the Industrial Union, from our women’s minister on the table under the motto “more just distribution of family aid”. Together we try to find solutions that benefit the children who benefit families in Austria!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e41076	Next speaker: Mrs Haubner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e41097	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Politics has to invest where the future is. Where's the future? – In job creation, in jobs that people have jobs, in education, in research and whatever is always forgotten, also in families. Where children grow up, where children have good or less good chances, they need to invest accordingly. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] If we look at the budget of €6.5 billion – something is increased – it is at first glance a high or good budget, but if you consider that we pay €7.5 billion alone in interest for our high government debt, then it loses a little bit of dimension again. That is why we do not need a savings programme for families, as has been said, but rather an investment programme with a mix of financial benefits and benefits, with fiscal fairness, which is exactly what we need. In this current tax system, families are absolutely missing. Above all, there is also a need for support when families need help. When I look at this budget and what has been or is planned to do with these funds, I say that this budget has some sun sides, but it also has large shadow pages. The sun sides are once that you, Mr. Minister, are trying to make administrative simplifications and save money there. I am thinking of the youth ticket that we have recently decided together, which is an absolutely good thing and is also associated with administrative simplification. I think it is positive that the next year the direct payments of family support for students – including a demand that we have long made on the part of the BZÖ – will be possible, and I think it is a good idea if you consider: What can be further developed? However, the sides of the shadow weigh, as we have said, and there are for us two large sides of shadow: family allowance and childcare allowance. These are two achievements that are quite, very important for our families and which have not been raised for years. If you are now presenting a new model of family aid, Mr Federal Minister, I would rather consider it from the point of view of administrative simplification, which is to be welcomed, but not an additional increase in family aid for the families they need. It is no substitute for the long-term adjustment of value, there can be no replacement for this long-term adjustment of value, although the loss of value is a very high. Do you know, Minister of State, what children cost? There are enough studies. Starting from childhood children up to school entry, the costs are about €500 per month, and these costs are rising, of course, with the start of compulsory schooling, especially in higher schools. The cost of the schools, the cost of training, is always far too low when we speak of the costs of the families. I would have liked to have from the BZÖ that you would have paid these € 130 million, which can no longer be picked up from the tax system, really once directly to the families, so to speak, as a bonus for their achievements, that you would not let this money disappear anywhere, but here give a clear signal that the families are worth a lot to you. For this non-value adjustment – I say it very clearly here again – which professional group would be able to do so? It is not right for pensioners, rightly not the working people, who require their salary adjustment annually and who are also entitled to this salary adjustment. The politicians have also demanded and have said that we have 9 per cent lost in value, and we want to have a salary adjustment because otherwise no good politicians will come. If I am now going to change that to the families and if that plays a role, then we will no longer have good families, because they have not received a value adjustment for ten years or longer. Mr Steibl, you say that the family allowance will be adjusted, and the Federal Minister has said, yes, if FLAF is debt-free. And that's in 2018! What do the families have today if I promise them, 2018 will be raised? Here is also my strong criticism, Minister of State: You said you wanted to reform the FLAF. What has happened so far? [[Interference of Federal Minister Dr. Mitterlehner.]] - Oh, you held a press conference – I did. has all this in writing – that you are addressing the FLAF reform. What did you do? Nothing until now! You rightly hope – and I hope so – that the service providers and staff contributions will rise, but you have given up negotiating with your colleagues that so-called family-wide benefits come from FLAF. So nothing happened here. In the case of child care, the value adjustment, as has already been said, has long been outstanding. Especially we of the BZÖ are a hundred percent behind this performance of child care because this is really a success story to date. It was then founded on the intention of giving parents the freedom of choice, and instead of the pension, it should be a family benefit for all. And what everyone forgets a little bit again and again: The four years of child rearing per child were also completed. This too is closely linked to the childcare allowance to this day. I therefore ask – I do not know how many times – not to unnecessarily complicate the child care money and finally eliminate this unharmonious limit of merit. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] This is because it has no steering effect. Experts know that too, and Professor Mazal has said that very clearly in the Committee. I am glad, Mr Federal Minister, that you now have a bit of an open ear for this abolition of the earnable limit, because I remember the first time I asked for it and asked questions, it was said that it costs €300 million in addition. Now, at an event on Monday, you have said it will cost about €150 million. And I think that €150 million for our families must just be inside if we use billions to save banks. That is why I call for this at this point. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Let us also look at the different models of child care money! We have five models, and it is enormously complicated to seek the right form of childcare allowance. There's a 20-page summary, and I don't know if you've read all of these before. I don't need a commercial knowledge, because I don't need a tax advisor either, but I need a whole tax consulting firm. And that's a cutback for the families! And the cost of administration increases annually. Currently, we are at € 17 million according to a request answer from you. That's why I'm saying: Child care models are reforming, simplifying and really leaving only those adopted by people. The long-term variant, which you want to always abolish from the SPÖ side, is still the most popular. Two thirds of families choose them. However, the income-dependent variant is also one that has been very strongly adopted in relation to the father's participation in recent months or years. So you have to look at what is strongly assumed, and leave that, but not all five. I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] We also make this a self-employed proposal so that we can discuss it accordingly in the Committee. If I'm already in the shadows, just like this: A shadow side is also that you have given up a federal law on youth protection, that it is still called “Please wait!” when it comes to the uniform youth welfare law to protect children and families from violence. The tax system is also included. I know it's not. Your area, but I think you have good contact with Mrs Finanzminister, because you have quickly presented this new model of family aid, to which you also need the approval of Mrs Finanzminister. Please follow a little bit and make sure that in the future in Austria we not only have a fair, just and simple tax system for everyone, but above all also for the families. Here is our approach from BZÖ: 9 000 € Free charge for families. This release includes everything, and then we don't have these problems anymore, that the people who actually need this money don't pick up this money because it's intrusive and complicated. Ladies and gentlemen! Much remains to be done in the family sector, one year, Mr. Federal Minister, who is still at your disposal. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] I don't know if much will happen. We'll be surprised. It is important that there are resources for the families that it is also manageable for those who have children and that family and profession are compatible and that this is also viable. The budget should always be an image of what a society is worth. The family budget is an illustration of what the children are worth to us. But in this budget absolutely outweighs the shadows for the families.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e41262	The motion for a resolution tabled is being discussed. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e41344	Next speaker: Mr Haubner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e41365	Mr President. Mr. Minister! I dedicate myself to the chapter Economics. In total, more than €421 million is available to the Ministry of Economic Affairs to strengthen the competitiveness of local companies and those of the foreign sector and thus to keep Austria still attractive. Especially in more difficult economic times, it is all the more necessary to ensure that the economic environment fits. That is why we also need to save – and this is what we do with this budget – wisely and invest effectively, because we need growth in order to secure the location and, of course, the competitiveness of our companies in order to secure jobs. It is gratifying, ladies and gentlemen, that the Minister of Economic Affairs has given the appropriate impetus here, so-called offensive measures for the year 2013 that are to be taken. If you look at this, this is the continuation of thermal renovation, a very important point for the regional economy, and the second is the Internationalisation Plan, which is also very important. Austria is an international hub, we are economically very successful abroad, we earn 6 out of 10 € in export, and I think it is also very important that we get appropriate support from the Ministry of Economic Affairs here. Of course, the promotion of the Austrian hotel and tourism bank is also a very essential factor, because we are the tourism country number one, we are so much the S-class in world tourism, and here our entrepreneurs deserve every support. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Haider: That's why 3 million is cut!]] Ladies and gentlemen! The main impulses are especially in the young entrepreneurs' offensive on the tapet, and this is very important because the young entrepreneurs are the employers of the future. We all want new jobs to be created together, and this is where €110 million will be mobilised, and I think that is very important. The young entrepreneurs are supported by the Founder Fund and the Business Angel Fund on the one hand, when they set valuable impulses for the Austrian economy in startups. One essential point – and I believe that is also very important, especially for the regional economy – is the cooperation between the economy and the public sector. The extension of the threshold regulation is an essential boost for the regional economy. Minister, thank you! These are the right measures to continue to be able to start offensively into the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e41415	Next speaker: Mr Markowitz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e41438	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! In 2013 a budget of € 6.5 billion is available for family and youth. These are below the line € 160 million more than this year. One-off multi-disbursements are made in the case of family allowances, plus € 44.9 million. This is done by redeployment, by the payment mode of compensation for children living abroad. Higher payouts are also available in respect of free rides for students, pupils and apprentices, plus € 14.6 million. An amount of € 11.7 million is planned for the index adjustment of the maintenance advances. Mr Minister, there is an important point we need to discuss. I heard radio today, there was an image campaign for installers. I don't know if you heard that, but I think it's very good that you finally start to make the teaching professions more attractive again. I have been demanding that we make image campaigns in tourism for many years, because here we have open teaching places in the tourism country Austria. I would like to know if we discuss the budget that tourism also occurs. I didn't find a single point where tourism is up there. If you look at this, everything will be discussed, but we do not find our own point “Tourism” in Austria’s tourism country. I think that is what the many professionals, the many entrepreneurs, the Austrian advertising companies, all those who make it possible to create jobs in this country, that we have a good image and, above all, that we find again apprentices who want to work in tourism companies, just don't deserve it. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] I would like us to be simply explicit in the future – Mrs Wurm, I must give you the right. [[Abg. May. Worm: Then you have to make it more attractive!]] That's the main problem. We need not only to see that we make the teaching profession more attractive in the tourism sector, but also to ensure that the apprentices who complete the course stay there as well. It is actually a profession that makes joy, it is a profession that is highly regarded abroad, because a top-educated cook finds a great place worldwide. That's what we see when we look at the print media; that's something you can make money with. I'd like us to make image campaigns there. Mr Minister, I have looked at this: youth is your subject, that concerns you. If we look at this in Europe, we have costs of € 153 billion a year in Europe as regards the unemployment rate among young people. 153 billion € Costs cause Young people between 15 and 25 years of age in Europe because they have no job. It can't go on like this! I also looked at the Austrian figures. The youth unemployment rate of the 15-25 year olds in Austria is 7.4 percent, that of the 20 to 24 year olds 7.3 percent. In Vienna alone, we have unemployment rates for the 15-25-year-olds of 12,800 people. Mr Mitterlehner, I am sure you will be right. These are the long-term unemployed of tomorrow. We have to fight against this in a massive way. You have such a huge budget, you have a budget of 6,5 billion €. I am very glad that I heard today about the first image campaign for installers, but that's now exactly that profession in which there are no open teaching positions. I think we have to put on the lever with regard to apprentices where we have open teaching posts that we have to put on. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] You're demanded that we just do it like that in the future. Then we all go a right way, and that is what we wish for the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e41490	I now give the floor to Mr. Dr. Mitterlehner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e41511	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Westenthaler, I would also like to comment on the subject you have referred to. I don't know if you want to hear what I have to say. [[Abg. Booker: Oja! I'd love to! We're already interested in that!]] But I may present something else before, because here the two sectors were addressed to the family and the economy. I regret that these areas are now being discussed together. Some colleagues, like Mr Markowitz, have then mixed both in their speech. Mr Markowitz, it is already nice to ask for an image campaign for installers and to have something similar for other professions, but that with the family budget or with the € 6.5 billion it is for this I do not think that this is reasonable, because it is not entirely feasible. Let me, ladies and gentlemen, first of all come to the area of family and youth, with a comment that can be seen in the overall context of the budget. You're talking about shadows here today, of sun sides, just: Didn't you notice that we had an economic crisis and that we had a consolidation package? One of the few areas of growth, including revenue and expenditure – we are pleased to have a high rate of employment – is the family sector. So the good news from my point of view is: In the family sector, it is a pleasure not to cut down, despite other consolidation programmes, because we have been able to improve the family compensation fund in good time! The word “righteous ” is the interesting one. Now a few basic remarks: Some of you have talked about family and family with children, saying that this area would be the main task of my department. I give you the right, of course, that is at the heart of my duties, but I would also like to take up the opinion of others, especially the many institutions, who believe that family is not only limited to a community where children are, but also includes the area where children perceive their own independence, where parents are where children may live with their parents or where a single woman is there with the children. All this is just as family! From the point of view of finding this use wherever responsibility is taken intergeneratively, I think that it is a proper discussion development. A few days ago, we celebrated “10 years of child - care allowance. ” Mrs Haubner and some other colleagues were there too. In this context, we have been able to see some trends in what has happened or has not happened in recent years. For example, we have achieved – on the father-participation I come to speak later – that the compatibility of family and profession is now lived. It is true that 85 percent of women who have one or more children, especially in those cases where the youngest child is six to 15 years of age, are in employment. The employment rate for women as a whole has increased from 61 to 65 percent in recent years. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: The farmers are also included!]] All of this, of course, is linked to the fact that we have expanded the compatibility of family and profession with considerable resources made available by the federal government to the countries. A second component will be added, and this is Father's participation. With this, we are also in a certain contradiction to some goals. Mrs Haubner, you said that we should simplify the models for childcare. - I'll give you the following: This is relatively complicated. But the models have arisen because various social-political desires, such as the father's participation, have been developed. We have also realized the wishes regarding father participation accordingly, in the income-dependent variant of 30 percent. [[Abg. Ursula Haubner: That's right!]] But on the other hand, raise At the same time, it is calling for: Let us do the extension towards the task of the limit of merit! - There's a lot to talk about. I am always for a pragmatic way in the discussion. But if we do, then we have no more incentive for fathers to be motivated in this area, so to speak, to take on their own responsibility outside of the costs and in addition to the costs. Therefore: All things that are so loosely laid down in this area have one side, but also the other side. We are trying to make administrative simplifications with the five variants. I hope you will agree. In this context, I believe that the time has come to discuss a change in the models, if we have fulfilled all the quotas, in 2016, if we have also achieved the Barcelona target among the under 3 year olds. And then we can talk about whether we really need the one or the other long variant, which goes back and forth, in this form, because, in my opinion, the state does not have to promote twice: on the one hand, the extension of childcare and also the childcare allowance, so to speak, so to speak. – So we have a clear development, and I stand by it as well. That's how we're going! A third point, which is to be discussed – and I must say again to you, Mrs Haubner: At the event on Monday on the occasion of “10 years of child care money” we talked about the issue of the quality of childcare. Yes, the question of quality, ladies and gentlemen, is a very crucial one, because in addition to the money we have to spend on it, there is also the question of the placement of values and the bonding experience in space. Why? – Because this quality is an important requirement, especially in the kid's crib. The mother is usually present until the first year of the child's life and makes this task highly personal, but then, with the compatibility of family and profession, the quality comes to bear in the child's cribs. There children need availability, reliability and familiarity. And for this to be fulfilled, you need a key. A woman can care for a maximum of four, possibly five children in the kid's crib, everything else is not feasible. There will be They ask: What does that have to do with the budget? – A lot, because this is exactly what the quality standards are, and in turn, one is on the question of training. We all have to deal with this, even in Parliament, which is worth us in this area. Mrs Musiol, I am not always your opinion otherwise, but if we go the way that we no longer have a kindergarten, not a childcare, but a child rearing, because there are the important questions for our children, then I must say: You're not wrong! But we also need to discuss the question in the long term in weighting: Where does the money come from? With this, ladies and gentlemen, I am referring to the question which you have raised more often today and which concerns the budget, namely: How does the development of family allowances look like? Does anyone of you really want us to wait until 2018 and then say at the expense of the families: There's nothing left!Unknown term type: "%s".? In this context, ladies and gentlemen, I have looked at income trends in relation to FLAF and I also think that: We shouldn't wait there! We will not leave the consolidation path because the revenue from employment is fortunately good. Whether we are debt-free in 2018 or a year later, that is, I believe, not the crucial question, but the crucial one: How are we going up until then? And if you mention the Valorization – wonderful! We don't have them in the law, you have to fight them. But what we should have is more transparency in performance, more clarity. We have presented a model for this, and I hope that this model will be supported by all. We are now going to enter into negotiations and want to do so as soon as possible, before the elections. This model will really be a help for families. And the nail sample will be how you really stand with families. We will see that in the first months of next year. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This raises another question: Of course, apart from the component of the aid, I also need a tax side. And I have to say, I think it's kind of interesting that you're going here and saying that there's still money left in the child dropout. – Yes, “remained” is a good name. You must turn it around: It has not been used! [[Abg. Ursula Haubner: I said that!]] We are therefore pleased to note that our overall debt is not so high in the fiscal field. Rather, you have to ask: How can one fulfill the moral obligation? And I think the idea of extending this to 14 years is a good idea. But we also need to discuss other tax options, because they are also needed and because the Constitutional Court sees them as they do and says: Some of the expenses that a family has must also be taxed! But not only because of that, but also because: Whoever – the French, Sweden or anyone – has a high child rate, has a high fertility rate, he also has a tax component. The third point is the corresponding extension of child care in itself. We'll take it. – And I have already mentioned the quality standards. Finally, I should like to point out the priorities in our programme. We have planned to improve the protection of children. We are working on this, some of which are a question of competence. I have mentioned this very often here: Give me the competence for the field of youth protection! Then you have a template from me within one day. However, we will not be able to solve this issue here alone, but we will only be able to resolve it in conversation with the federal states, with a convention, no matter what. [[Calls to the Greens.]] – Don’t point out to us, because federal representatives with partly strange proposals also have you, Mrs Lichtenecker! [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenecker: Go!]] Now to the school-free ride. . I see no problem in the fact that we want to roll out this issue and this performance in all the federal states. The question involved is: What's that cost? For VOR, the East-Region Transport Association, is much more financial than the other federal states. Last but not least, I should also like to point out that we are working out the youth strategy with those involved and will have completed in the first months of next year. It will be a permanent process, as it will be developed further, but in the final effect, it will provide an important basis for further work by the stakeholders themselves and precisely according to the proposals the EU has made, according to the topics. Mrs. Haubner, you said: You've got another year of time! – I say it reversed: I still have the responsibility for a year. I believe that we have systematically prepared a lot of right course. It is now up to you to support this, so that implementation works as well as planned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e41644	Next speaker: Mrs Lueger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e41665	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mrs. Kitzmüller, you say we have to take care of our families. – Yes, I am already with you, but then you have to say, in which areas we should then save where we need to wash the money away so that we can have it for the families. That would be the honest variant, and I haven't received it from you yet. Manna from heaven, it won't come! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kitzmüller.]] Mrs Haubner, on child care allowance adjustment: As you know, we have five variants. The adjustment of the income-dependent childcare allowance is not at all possible. So this is a very populist demand that you raise here! This should be taken into account, as the Minister said, after a certain period of time, and after the evaluation one can decide: Is it smart to continue to have five variants: yes or no? I would like to point out that these five variants did not come out of an idea, but the five variants were quite simply there because you said you need a choice for the parents. Mr Minister, on Tuesday you presented your family aid model, which, as I believe, contains quite positive things. It is weakened from the four-stage to the three-stage model, in which siblings are reduced, where you come down to less. But I am very pleased that you are also thinking about direct payment for young people aged 18 and over. However, the model of Minister Heinisch-Hosek does not depend on the tax component, but on the direct payment and the concrete, clear, transparent and cost-neutral invoice. It would be nice if we brought these two models together – in the sense of the families! Mr Minister, you said at your press conference that you want to move the reform of FLAF one year further backwards and that you will be at your Model Finally, take this almost € 2 million, which are available, into your hands. I would like one thing, and this concerns the following: We have 50 crisis care parents throughout Austria – 50 crisis care parents! – who do not receive child care allowance, although they are available on a daily basis to take over children who are in difficulty. I would ask you, Mr Minister, once again to reconsider the family aid to the crisis caretakers. I can't understand that when a child of 15. Countries until 15. In the case of a crisis care family, which only receives the family allowance for February. It would be nice if you could add this to my concern in your model.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e41717	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Höbart. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e41738	Mr President. Federal Minister! A brief replica to the colleague Lueger of the Social Democrats: You mean there's no money, no more money for the families. – Our approach is the: There would be enough manoeuvring mass in the budget to better promote families. - Point one. Point two – and I would like to write that to you in the main book –: One should, before distributing funds in all the countries, but promote our families. This is a clear position of the Freedom Party! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] As a youth speaker, a few words on the subject of youth. You, Mr Minister, have mentioned this so casually. I looked at the “Report ” two or three weeks ago. There was a brief report on the Austrian youth, and I must say that there is one thing we need to address clearly: The youth is under pressure! Two things have been clearly addressed in the report. The first is: Basic education is often insufficient. That must give all of us thought. Writing, reading and basic knowledge of mathematics are often a problem. By the way, this is also heard more often from the economy. And the second is: The dual training system is also in danger. It is quite clear that the number of apprenticeships has declined dramatically. You know, our explanation for this is that the government – the Social Democrats always, when they think of the Egon Blum – abolished the Blum bonus at that time. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] We are convinced that this is the case. You too, Mr Minister, have not yet been able to explain the opposite to us, to convince us of the opposite. It says: Since the abolition of the Blum-Bonus, 10,000 teaching places have been lost. That means in the reverse: We need to support the companies. Keywords: Why has the quality assurance premium been abolished? You also did not relieve the companies, but burdened them as you know. And: It is necessary to educate, inform and, once in a time, actively motivate young people that they – and now I come to the real point – make their education stronger in teaching and increase their access to teaching. Unfortunately, the quality assurance premium, which I have already mentioned, has been abolished and, ultimately, the promotion of companies in order to make apprenticeships possible. I would also like to make a brief mention of a proposal from your President of the Chamber of Commerce, Mr Leitel. – So I rarely heard such a cocky proposal: Express teaching! How to use a so-called express teaching – so: make a quick teaching! – lifting the image of teaching? Let me explain this to a reasonable person in the ÖVP. . So a completely careless proposal by ÖVP and the President of the Chamber of Commerce, Leitl. [[Federal Minister Dr. Mitterlehner: Mr President,... order call!]] We of the FPÖ are concerned with lifting the image of teaching in order to compensate for the shortage of skilled workers in the economy, as one hears over and over again. In this context, we make the following request from the Freedom Party: [[Quoted print version removed]] An apprentice is paid, not “reimbursed, ” but. He has the right to receive a salary.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e41825	The application is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e41898	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Fuhrmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e41919	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr Höbart! I'm on my tongue to say: That's a real nonsense you just spread here! The apprentices are not only well trained in Austria, but the dual education system is also internationally recognized. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ing. Höbart.]] Our apprentices win international prizes. With dual training, we have a model that is admired by many countries and countries. Especially for apprentices – and the Minister of State will certainly go into it even then – a lot has happened in the last two years. The flower bonus, although in the form with which it was abolished, has, of course, been continued in its support. There are many training measures, support for young people. I don't know, did all of this happen to you? – All of this is: There are open teaching places, there are job seekers, and it is seen that skills and talents are best used. So that nothing will be done for apprentices in Austria is the biggest nonsense I've ever heard here! [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Ing. Höbart: There is no such thing as a surprise!]] It is true that our children and young people have some difficulties in school, that basic knowledge is often not taught as much as it should be. Mr Höbart, there is primarily the responsibility of parents and teachers. If you're already raising this to the political level, I have to say: The Minister for Education is responsible for this and not for the Minister for Economic Affairs. So the address wasn't quite correct either. [[Abg. Riepl: Your former wife Gehrer is responsible for this!]] On the contrary: The Federal Minister Middellehner has formulated very comprehensive, and also successful, impact targets, as far as his family sector in particular is concerned. On the one hand, this is about the burden compensation between dependent and childless persons. But above all, it is about ensuring a better compatibility of family and work, which is very essential and of great importance for young families in particular. [[President Dr. Graf takes over the chairmanship.]] .. What I am particularly pleased about – Mr Rudas and I have made a request in this regard some time ago – is the direct disbursement of the family aid. This will be possible from September 2013. This is about supporting young Austrians on the one hand and promoting them in the best possible way as far as their independence and independence are concerned. As a general rule, parents are entitled to family allowances. In total, this is relevant for 1.8 million children. With regard to the new model, there will be 270 000 young adults in the future who will have the opportunity to directly obtain family support. This requires a transfer request from the competent financial office, which can be organised very quickly and unbureaucratically. I think this is a good way to support entry into a self-employed life on the part of politics, especially for young adults. Thank you, Minister!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e41984	Next speaker: Mrs Windbüchler-Sushill. 7 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e42006	Mr President. Minister! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Child and youth policy is a cross-sectional matter and, of course, can be found in the ministry, but above all in the federal states, in the regions and in the municipality. That is exactly what makes it difficult, and that is the difficult everyday life – not only of youth politicians and youth politicians, but also of young people and children themselves. This everyday life can be achieved and can be changed in the here and now. In my opinion, the floscles that one hears over and over again – children and youth are the future – are, in my opinion, a purely political floscle, because I am convinced that it is a matter of pursuing policies for children and young people in the present, here and now, so that, in the future, there will be sustainable development for children and young people. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We are celebrating this 20 years of the Convention on Children's Rights in Austria, an international agreement for all children and young people living in Austria who are not only going to school, but also here, regardless of their origin, regardless of social status, regardless of religion, regardless of their mother tongue, independent of school education. The Child Law Convention, this international agreement, actually applies to all children. Almost two years ago, a step has been taken in this House, which has implemented a federal constitution law that has actually enshrined children's rights in a federal constitution law. It's supposed to be the Well, the child's focus should be on, for example, the support of disabled children, and that at the highest level, namely in a federal constitution law. We Greens did not agree at the time. We have been quite cheated by many sides and have been quite shocked by a number of sides, because we are the party that carries the youth policy and the children's right flag over and over again through the area. I must tell you that now, after almost two years, I am happy and actually proud to have made this political decision at the time and not supported this law on children's rights. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Listen to me.]] This law on children's rights, which has not yet been protected by a single child, has not helped a single child, not a single youth, until now. And why? – Because, unlike the Child Rights Convention, it does not protect all children and does not implement the rights for all children! The Federal Constitutional Law does not provide for the same rights for all children. The Federal Constitution Act does not provide that there are accompanying measures, that there is a monitoring, that no controls are provided, and that so far, so far. The UN, the United Nations Children's Rights Committee based in Geneva, has examined Austria together with the children's rights experts in recent years and has also invited the Federal Government to hear an opinion. Now the final recommendations have come back. These final recommendations – you have to imagine this – consist of a part of positive findings, of “this is good, but could be even better,” and negative comments, i.e. real criticism, or – and this is the most important point – the recommendations to the Federal Government, to the other political leaders. The positive emphasis is, of course, quite clear: the ratification of this additional Convention, the Constitutional Law, which aims to protect the interests of children in itself, the introduction of an assessment of the impact of children's rights at federal level by 1. January 2013 – that’s this so-called children’s and youth check from 2013 on – and of course the inclusion of the child’s best interest in Article 1 of the Constitution. I am saving myself the negative points because they confirm all that the Greens have been saying for years. But what is most important, that is, across all party borders: The most important thing is the implementation, the possible implementation of the recommendations! In the Federal Constitutional Law on Children's Rights, it is quite clear to read: Remove the restrictions Articles 13, 15 and 17. Every child has the same rights in Austria, regardless of where it comes from. That is exactly what the UN is saying now, and that is exactly what needs to be changed! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The introduction of a comprehensive legislative situation, which includes all the measures of the Convention; more intensive efforts to harmonise national laws – here, for example, only mentioned, the children and youth aid laws that have not yet been harmonised and for which, unfortunately, there is still no common level so far; efficient coordination mechanism between the Federal Government and countries on children's rights and related resources; the introduction of Children's rights in the primary and secondary education curriculum; vocational training among children's rights; and – this is the same thing – the documentation of the measures taken by Austria against neonacism, racism, xenophobia and other forms of intolerance affecting children: all of this is part of children's rights! All of this is also fixed in an international agreement, but unfortunately not yet in the Federal Constitutional Act. Now – and I have to say that at the end – the Ministry's step has been taken in the direction of not only reading these recommendations, but also listening and actually perceiving them, actually inviting, listening to and perceiving the children's rights experts and putting them at the centre of the organization so that it finally means: A Children's Rights Monitoring to Accompany Children's Rights in the Federal Constitutional Act will be installed in 2013. Finally, this is a common success of the child rights organizations! I would also like to thank the Minister for this, not a question. There will be money for this in the next year. My request is that this joint participation of the children's rights organisations be continued, that this monitoring committee is in fact independent and is actually financially secured, because only in this way can it be ensured that children's rights in the Federal Constitutional Act are actually taken seriously.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e42096	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Worm. 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e42117	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In your family budget approach, you, Mr. Federal Minister, have anchored the compatibility of family and profession and put in place various measures or indicators to do so. I agree with you when you say: It is important and necessary to ensure the compatibility of profession and family that the men who increase fathers use the karenz. Here I would also ask you to support the campaign of the Minister for Women; I have already shown it yesterday: ‘Real men go to Karenz’. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] The fact that the income-dependent pension, the income-dependent child allowance, is a very important measure in order to achieve half-half in the family, which is a central point. Half-half in the family – wherever unpaid work is done, Mr. Stefan, the women are on the front line! Even if shared here, it would be good for us to be good for society. Even for the birth rate, it would have a good effect – this is also evident from your approaches that it is a concern to increase the birth rate, namely from 1.44 to over 1.6. Everywhere where the birth rate is higher than in Austria, the compatibility between the profession and the family is given. This is a very important, central point in these areas. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl.]] It is also very important to me, Mr Federal Minister, that the various standards be aligned. I too am aware that, of course, we need two-thirds of the majority to ensure that it is standards and standards that there is always a need for a shift of competence there, for example, through a uniform system. Childcare law, uniform youth welfare laws and so on. All this is still to be fought here – don't give up, Minister! I would like to give you another point: Don't forget that it was good to agree on the voluntary quota for supervisory councillors in the public sector! If we do this in the private sector too, if we support Commissioner Reding and our women's minister, it would be good for the economy and all of us to join in favour of a compulsory quota for supervisory councillors.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e42172	Next speaker: Mr Windholz. Five minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e42193	Mr President. Minister! High house! Through the reform of the budget, we now also have the impact targets in the budget. I have to correct myself here to the committee: There I have told you that these are quite impotent; after I have now come to know the objectives of other ministries, in particular those of the Ministry of the Interior, this seems to me in a slightly different light. The fact is, however, that the Minister of Economic Affairs basically writes out the figures. For this budget there is also the possibility of reserves – which should not be ignored – which are available at €221.6 million. At the objectives of the action, there is a formulation highlight, which I discovered twice in a row: “Both short-term external impulses as well as long-term trends require a high degree of adjustment.” Well, Minister, as a master achievement I would not call that! Well, well, you could say about that, too. The apprentices were also addressed. This seems to me to be an area in which one should really focus: on the objective of modernising vocational training, attracting teaching, further development of vocational education and training. I can only agree. But what do practice sometimes look like? I've been approached by a very skilled businessman from the real estate industry, he's also a house manager. He has also reported to the board, because there are the teaching profession real estate merchant/real estate buyer, but from his point of view there are too few apprentices. From his point of view, we say, the quality of training is also optimized; he has described it to me a little different. This skilled entrepreneur has thought that he has drawn up a position paper and has submitted it to the Chamber of Commerce. He has also guessed that there is much too little advertising for this profession. Then it comes: What's he gonna get in the answer? – In 2009 there were two apprentices from Lower Austria – he is a Lower Austrian entrepreneur – and in 2010 there were four test subjects, and in 2011/2012 the number of apprentices is equally manageable. And: The apprentices have also come through, so there is no need for action. I think that's the completely wrong way. You can really increase that! Here you can give young people a teaching profession, the economy needs it. I think this is a parade for listening much more to the entrepreneurs who want to promote the economy here. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] My next statement concerns tourism, of course also the teaching professions. It is a jubilation like the ÖVP, where I always remain a realist: We have tight budgets, we need consolidation, but the fact is that the ÖHT has been reduced by € 2 million. – If this already celebrates the ÖVP as a success because it is only 2 million!Unknown term type: "%s".? I would certainly insist on maximum freezing of the funds – as in the case of Austria’s advertising. Ladies and gentlemen! What are the economic forecasts? – After all, we have a difficult situation, especially in the automotive and construction sectors. Here may be some figures and facts: The US automaker Ford has already announced a savings programme for his European works. Volvo wants to close a work. Renault will reduce the number of employees. At Opel, Daimler and VW the production was throttled. The figures for new registrations are falling across Europe, of course also in Austria. This situation, of course, also burdens domestic suppliers. We have... – Here look, an intermediate call from the SPÖ! [[Abg. May. Schickhofer: After all, you realize this once! That's great that you analyze that...!]] [[Abg. May. Schickhofer:... that the pan-European market is totally relevant to us!]] [[Further calls.]] Well, that's a cheap call now, of course! Who is in the government, Mr. Colleague? – You are right: If the BZÖ were in the government, we would already be active now! [[Abg. May. Schickhofer: That's why we put the measures...!]] [[Further calls.]] He saw that, yes. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: (in the direction of Abg. May. Schickhofer) An intermediate call is short, Mr. Colleague, not a correferat! What in the Renner Institute...!]] I can only tell you that there are very difficult times on us. It will also be in the construction industry. Alpine is sleeping with foreign business on the edge of the ruins. The STRABAG must re-evaluate outstanding claims, for example in Poland, and for the first time issue a profit warning for the Group. It is also true in the steel industry that long-term planning can only be carried out under ever more difficult conditions – anything but positive signals for what is happening to us! Of course, you have to give answers. An investment premium was debated, they did not exist. But there is a lot else to do, and now I have the opportunity to address the remarks of the Minister, who also has our support for proposals. [[Abg. May. Gaßner: After all!]] ==References== He presented together with the Minister of Justice the return of evidence to energy suppliers. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Where is it, Minister?]] Well, that would be an act that would, of course, benefit Austrian citizens. Now I hear: A judicial committee is planned, taken from the agenda. – Mr colleague, where are the Austrian citizens now being supported? Red and black remove this from the agenda! It's not coming, it's shifted to the Sankt-Nimmerleins day, under the pretext that you still wanted to evaluate it. You don't give the Austrian citizens good service with your party! And then, instead of making calls, maybe you should take care of a rethink in your own ranks. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I believe it is long ago that this is being implemented in law and that the craftsmanship that unnecessarily burdens Austrian citizens.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e42325	Next speaker: Mr. Hörl. 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e42358	Mr President, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the Federal Minister! Col. Windwood, that's great what I just heard from you: They stress the importance of the European market for the automotive supplier industry. If You might say this to your party observer and perhaps to Mr Strache, because their skewer policy of shooting us goes against it. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. May. Schickhofer.]] You're perfectly right: 80 percent of our exports go to Germany – and your common interest is to close the borders as far as possible! So, Mr. Windholz, you have my full support: If you might want to train Seppi Bucher here, I'll be happy to support you. [[Abg. May. Stefan:... our exports go to Germany, that's why we need shelter against Germany! That's an argument I always like to hear!]] Mr. Minister! Mr. Export Minister! I would like to thank you for the fact that you are also in figures for our export. I see that in the case of ‘go-international’ no cuts are made, even in tourism relatively few cuts are made. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] Tourism is also one of the major export economies in our country, which we are so proud of, and here too you have shown the flag, Minister! In your ministry's saving needs of more than 10 percent, the small cuts you have made are also factually justified, and I stand for them. For example, if I take out the Austrian hotel loyalty hand: low reductions, but a large margin for liability, of € 500 million only used 160 million. Here I ask you, Mr Federal Minister, to support us that we can make the liability framework a little more flexible in terms of interest rates and also more attractive for home banks. These figures can also be assumed here: no cuts in the Austrian advertising. Here, however, I see the problem more in coordination with the LTOs and the large tourism associations. I would like to stress again and again that it is a matter of using the funds in the markets. You have contributed a lot to this with your initiative. As I have pointed out several times, the alliance of the Ten can only be the beginning, we must continue to work here. In tourism, therefore, a total of €50.5 million – still very acceptable in view of the high objectives of our budget consolidation, which we of course also need to support as a tourism and as an export economy. I think it's right that we do this. Tourism is an economic form that has gained in importance in the crisis, which has also helped to keep our results in Austria – an indirect and direct value added of 14.6 percent of GDP. Tourism is the economic form with the broadest prosperity development up to our remotest villages. Every sixth job in this country depends on tourism. Let us highlight the added value of winter tourism! [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Worm.]] I have just been sent pictures of the Hintertux glacier, Minister, Mrs Gisela Wurm, it's great there, snow, everything best. We have 5.6 billion € value added, 75 000 employees in tourism. If I look at the Austrian Bundesbahnen – 40,000 employees, no value added, no profit as in tourism – then we are absolutely right. All of this is done. Mr Federal Minister, I would also like to congratulate you on the initiative concerning the Marchfeld castles. They want to include them in the privatized society Schönbrunn. That alone is a great story that German Chancellor Schüssel has begun, where € 170 million of investments have now been made and nearly € 30 million of taxes are paid. Federal Minister! All in all: Keep going. Austrian tourism thanks you – all great.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e42426	Next speaker: Mrs Mühlberghuber. Four minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e42447	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I would like to say very briefly to Mrs Worm and the campaign: Genuine men don't go to Karenz!, come back. [[Abg. May. Worm: What?]] [[Call the SPÖ: Go to Karenz!]] So for us, all men are real. I don't know if in your ranks there are some fake and some real men, but with us all men are real. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But now we come to the area of family: €3.2 billion will be spent in 2013 on family support for about 1.7 million children and young people. Even for children living in the EU/EEA region whose parents work in Austria, family allowances must be paid without taking into account the actual cost of living abroad. Approximately 5,000 foreign family aid beneficiaries who do not reside in Austria have funds in three-digit millions. Federal Minister! The Austrian families do not understand the high payments that flow abroad, for example to Romania, to Poland, to Hungary, to Slovakia and so on. In addition, the Austrian families are being saved, the family allowance has not been adapted to inflation for over ten years, and so has the childcare allowance. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It would be useful to adapt payments from Austria at least to the level of the cost of living of the country concerned. An adjustment of family aid to actual cost of living would be socially justified and would, on the other hand, bring savings of more than €10 million a year. To this end, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e42538	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e42599	In order to make a corrective statement, the honourable Member has the power to do so. Worm reported in word. I would remind you of the relevant provisions of the Rules of Procedure. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e42624	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mrs Mühlberghuber has just said that I would have said in my speech: Real men don't go to Karenz. [[Abg. Mühlberghuber: I didn't say that!]] I'm actually correcting: ‘Real men go to Karenz’.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e42684	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Kuntzl. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e42705	Mrs. Colleague! I just wanted to add that as far as men are concerned, we are a little more selective, but still invite all men to participate in an important phase of their child's life. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In this sense, there are two very good campaigns. A campaign that my colleague Worm has already mentioned is that of our women's minister, the other is from the Vienna women's city councillor, namely the campaign "4 walls 4 hands". We very much hope that a change of consciousness will develop, in which there could actually only be winners, namely the fathers, the children, the mothers. [[Call the FPÖ:I didn't find a real man at the SPÖ!]] I would like to mention two things from the family chapter very positively. Mr. Federal Minister, you have just mentioned in your speech that, with the appropriate extension of the childcare facilities and the achievement of the Barcelona goal, you can imagine to think about setting up the long-range version of the child's allowance. I think this is a real perspective for many reasons. The development of childcare facilities is, of course, important, because, as you have said, they are important educational facilities for children. In fact, even today, women cannot really recommend going to the long-range, because, even if they still want it so much, they often have very great difficulties finding their way back into the profession. Key words Direct payment of family aid: I think that this is also a very important and right step and would be very pleased if we could do something further and it would soon be possible for family support to students, i.e. to young adults, to be paid directly because, in the current system of student support, family support is de facto an essential pillar of student funding and thus an important element for the financing of student living.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e42753	Next speaker: Mrs. Dr. Lichtenecker. 7 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e42781	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Minister! I think there are some starting points in the budget that are quite positive, such as the founders' offensive, to ensure the financing of young entrepreneurs. However, it should be mentioned on the funding landscape that it is long overdue to make administrative simplifications so that access to businesses is easier and thus more cost-effective. As a result, it has long been appropriate to bring together the funding jungle that we have, to make the support of countries, municipalities and the federal government more concentrated, and thus to make a better offer for entrepreneurs. On the one-person companies, micro-enterprises: Minister! Some interesting improvements have been made. Nevertheless, I believe that the major construction sites remain, and it also requires the full commitment to continue working, and that means nothing but reducing the minimum basis of contributions to health insurance, eliminating the self-retaining of doctors and also creating durable unemployment insurance models for one-person companies. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] In the context of the budget, I would like to come to an important topic in the field of one-person ventures and small and medium-sized enterprises, which we will have over the next few years and decades – yes, I think: Tens of years – will accompany massively, namely the topic of financing and lending. Mr Minister, for a few weeks now, a very well-known example in the media, which is certainly also familiar to you, is the example of the shoe workshop in the Waldviertel, which has chosen a financing model – do we no longer have a minister? Is he missing? – [[Abg. Marek: He's back there!]] [[President Dr. Graf: He's around the corner!]] Around the corner? – I hope that the Ums-Eck-Gehen will bring light into the dark of this financing model. [[Federal Minister Dr. Mitterlehner: I'm here!]] This financing model was chosen whether the fact that he had lost his own home bank and had not granted him credit. Finally, relatives, friends, customers have confidence in Heini Staudinger, in his team and in GEA and have granted him the corresponding loans. After years, the bureaucratic hammer comes. Bank transactions are certainly suspected, which is of course not the case from the company's point of view, from the customers' point of view. This problem, which we now have in concrete terms, is not only present at GEA, but we have this in various energy transition projects, in EZA projects and so on. That's what we've got across. The Board of Financial Markets Supervisors, Dr. Pribil, said in the “ZiB 2” that there are 20 to 40 cases per year in this area. Minister! I believe that it has long been time for you to work as Minister of Economic Affairs for Small and Medium-sized Enterprises, especially in structurally weak regions, in order to find innovative financing models with citizens' participation that are legally secure, favourable in the resolution and administratively simple. This is a central challenge now. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Oilies: And without banks!]] – The colleague adds: without involvement of the banks. This is administratively simple: direct resolution, from citizens to businesses and energy transition projects. To this end, there are also corresponding resolutions of the Upper Austrian and Lower Austrian Landing Days in order to remedy this very issue. Mr Minister, I come to research and development, and part of the resources is located with you. To be clear, as a Green Research Spokesman, I am very sorry that economic research has been reduced in your department. I believe that this is the wrong signal, because especially in times when the economy is weakening, it is necessary to proceed anticyclically and to increase the resources and strengthen the dynamics in the future areas of research, universities, innovation massively. Finally, Minister, an indirect reference to the budget: Last June, there was a joint and unanimous resolution on the Energy Efficiency Act in June, that it was necessary for it to be available by July of this year. Now we have almost half a year later, and we still have none. So it is long ago time to advance the energy transition with a good, well-founded energy efficiency law.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e42876	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Lettenbichler. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e42897	Mr President. Mr. Minister! High house! In recent days, it has already been pointed out – and quite rightly so – from this point of view, the good economic and employment figures in Austria. We have the lowest unemployment rates in Europe. Our economy and industry are developing more dynamicly compared to the rest of Europe, and the budget path we are running is right, important and creates trust. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Our Federal Government is setting up the right measures in economic policy and also with this budget, which we will decide today, to strengthen this good industrial and economic location. For example, we reform plant law, extend the threshold regulation, link a meaningful package for smaller and one-person companies and launch a young business offensive. All the more so it is to refuse – and again and again this reputation – to want to demand new burdens for the domestic economy. On the other hand, we speak vehemently. Look around in Europe, open your eyes! Let us look at France, which is Europe's second largest economy: What's going on there is a real pity game. There, the socialist government introduced a so-called reform package of companies and companies. For example, a special tax on property tax has been decided to introduce tax increases for top earners and large entrepreneurs, and the so-called social value added tax for the relief of companies that were originally to be introduced has been reduced again. [[Abg. May. Gäßner: After that!]] To this end, I can quote an excerpt from the editorial of the “Press” yesterday, where it reads: “France’s elites are once again trying to be the master builder of a bollwerk yesterday against the problems of today. The usual response to the biggest crisis since the great depression is tax up The fact that unemployment has been rising for a year and a half, the ever-increasing hole in the trade balance, the growing indebtedness and the rolling wave of union closures is not being eliminated by the introduction of a wealth tax is almost ignored." Ladies and gentlemen! I don't think there's anything to add to it. Since President Hollande, France has seen a dramatic increase in unemployment, and several large companies have already announced closures. At the end of October, the bosses of France's 98 largest companies therefore appealed to the left political leaders and demanded, among other things, a radical reduction in the wage tax to save competitiveness. In France, real deindustrialization is threatened with the loss of tens of thousands of jobs. [[Call at SPÖ:Do we now discuss the Austrian budget or the French budget?]] So that this does not happen to us in Austria, my colleague, I just say: Get away from new burdens for our industry, for our economy, whether in the tax field or in the tax field, but also in the field of environmental bureaucracy! Finally, with all these measures, we are weakening the competitiveness of the domestic economy. As a result, we are – and I am now looking at you, Mr President – endangering jobs. As you can't, you can see in France. Therefore: Let us please leave our fingers on it, and let us not make the same mistakes as in France! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e42950	Next speaker: Mrs Schenk. Four minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e42971	Mr President. Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! On the light and shadow sides of the budget, my colleague Ursula Haubner has already given a detailed position, as I mean. In my speech, I would like to focus on child care, the amount of earnings and family allowances. We know that there have been child care benefits for ten years; on 1st. It was introduced in January 2002. It was already a great success in its original form, a success model created by Jörg Haider – I would also like to mention that. It has now been improved and expanded, but in some areas it has also been complicated. We now have five models, five variants of this childcare allowance, and that doesn't make things any easier. The exchange rate also applies again: Quality before quantity. There has also been an evaluation of the five models. The most common variant was the long-term variant, and the other models have not all been evaluated. The administrative costs involved in these five models alone amount to € 17 million. The women's budget has an amount of €10 million. Maybe you can see this in relation: 17 million € Administrative costs for the five variants of the childcare allowance and 10 million € women's budget. We held a press conference yesterday – you will certainly have followed this up, Minister – in which we presented four main points. One point is to reduce the five variants to two, to a long-term variant most commonly used, and to a further, income-dependent short variant. I would now like to come to the limit of merit. We know that, and this is what Prof. Mazal said in the Committee, the limit of trust has no steering effect or direct influence on father participation. I do not know why you mentioned this in your speech today. I would also like to inform the ladies and gentlemen of the guide, the 21-page short guide on the limit of earnability. It is necessary to specify, inter alia, whether the referee is given a garage or food stamp. They're just a couple of scumbags I picked out. It's far too complicated. There must be a change which must be respectful, as we demand, of the abolition of the limit of merit, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The family allowance system has also been mentioned today. It currently consists of six elements. You yourself have recently said in an interview, Mr Minister, that the system is relatively complicated and unclear and you wanted to reduce these six elements to three. We also expressly welcome this because we see administrative simplification in it, and we cannot be against it. There is a great need for action in relation to the deductibility of child care costs. In an interview, Minister Heinisch-Hosek has recently said that the inconspicuous jungle must be reduced and radically cleaned in terms of free-and-responsible amounts. That's good and right, too. There is also unity, but the way is not quite clear how we should achieve it. I don't really agree on this even within the coalition. They also said that the € 130 million were not left but were only not used. Why have they not been used? – Because the system is far too complicated! This is a prime example of the need for real action in the field, simplification, and that urgently. You have also addressed the TOP Youth Ticket for Vienna, Lower Austria and Burgenland. We have taken note of this positively, and we have also agreed to it. We hope that further funding will be possible quickly in the other federal states as well. I would like to say to the Youth Protection Act: You're not directly responsible, that's right because country competence is. However, you are indirectly responsible, and I am still entitled to appeal to you, since mainly your princes, the black and also the red, are blocking the law on the protection of young people. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] So you can do something about it by calling on your country princes to be a little more reticent, so that we can finally get an Austrian, uniform law on the protection of young people. The compatibility of family and profession, the importance of the family, the importance of the family in society – that has already been addressed today – also that children are our future. I don't need to repeat all of this. There is still a great need for action in many areas. We have put in many applications for this. Many requests with improvement proposals were also submitted by other opposition parties during the week of budgetary consultations. I would now like to make a further request on the improvement of the exemption from care, which would be a relief and massive improvement, especially for multi-child families. Care days should not be granted per employee, but per child, as we demand. We also demand that the care exemption be possible for those parents who do not live in the same household. That would also be a discharge from the single parents. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] In this respect, I should like to make the following request concerning the improvement of the exemption from care: [[Quoted print version removed]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, we saw yesterday that it is quite possible to do something constructive. Mr Westenthaler has tabled a six-party motion which is voting today. All parties have agreed to this request, which concerns the day-to-day turn-hour. [[Abg. May. Gaßner: A six-party application?]] – Yes, it is a six-party request, Mr Gaßner. I would be pleased if this request made by me would also find the approval of all the political groups in the House today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e43056	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e43120	Next speaker: Mrs Schönpass. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e43141	Mr President. Minister! Estimated colleague Schenk! We also stand for the abolition of the limit of merit while at the same time reducing working time. We represent this from the SPÖ. “Families are the solid foundation of our society and are respected and supported by us in all’ their diverse forms.” – This is a part of the guide in the 2013 federal proposal, breakdown: family and youth. It should be noted positively that the federal government will also provide the countries with €15 million in 2013 for the extension of the childcare offer, especially for under three years of age. This provides an essential impetus for a modern family policy. In addition, the 2013 Budget Report also includes another family-political and budgetaryly pleasing forecast, namely that the family-to-family burden balance will again achieve surpluses in the coming years, with around €1.58 million in 2013. I think these surpluses would be a good investment in national and demand-oriented quality criteria. You would have been easier if you had the competence to move to the Federation, because then you would no longer have to get upset with the countries, Mr Minister. A study by the Johannes Kepler University of Linz confirms my view. In this, it says: “Kindertagsstätten allow the children experience they need for development (), but also the motorism and the musical skills. This includes experiences with other children, best every day for several hours. Multi-hour games can be played with other children every day the least families still offer their child. It sounds hard, but no less true: Even the best mother can't be a child replacement. However, this also makes it clear which high quality standards must be applied to day care centres.” On this occasion I thank all kindergarten teachers who are already doing excellent work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e43190	Next speaker: Mr Venier. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e43211	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! I have to say quite frankly to you that it makes no sense to discuss individual figures of the federal budget here if the basic direction is not the same. Ideally, the basic principle would be that we will receive a balanced budget in the short or medium term and achieve a reduction in debt in the medium and long term. This alone would benefit families in our country, and this would also benefit young people in our country much more. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Instead of pursuing a het campaign against people who have developed a certain standard of living in Austria, and with the constant call for new taxes to permanently damage Austria's location, we should rather focus on how we can distribute existing funds, the existing budget resources usefully, less the items planned for the key tasks of the state that would be there: internal and external security, education, the judicial system and the external representation. This would be the task of a sustainable policy. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Instead of spending more and more money on new promotions and social transfer payments, we should focus on reducing them. These purely consumer tasks and expenditure that we are doing have no equivalent value compared to an infrastructure measure in which we actually have an equivalent value. For example, we have the pension grant from the budget – a purely consumer issue with which we do not receive an equivalent. It is even worse if this part of the budget is getting bigger and using resources that we do not even have and therefore have to take up. That's unscrupulous in my eyes! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If we turn off the transfer payments and social charges, this would probably be the best investment for our children, our families, our young people. Instead of working towards a state bankruptcy, we should see that we can obtain a financial margin in the sense of the next generations. And instead of causing more and more young people in this country to be comfortable and also to think about demands by an overarching state of promulgation and welfare, it would be important to reduce precisely these transfers and these social benefits, thus re-promoting the responsibilities of their own citizens and young people. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] That would bring back creativity and innovation. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: That's embarrassing!]] We build up a care trap for young people in particular. In reality, however, it is the task of politics to create conditions for these young people who are skilled, no matter what their social origin, to have the opportunity to bring it to something like that in Korea, the USA or Australia, for example. [[Abg. Ablinger: Awesome!]] For example, the budget could be a positive steering instrument. Ladies and gentlemen! To give freedom, to open up options, this must be the goal of sustainable policy. Unfortunately, we are still far away from that.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e43291	Next speaker: Mr Einwallner. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e43312	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Mr Venier, if only the beginning of your speech had not been and the end! The middle part sounded pretty good from my point of view, if you already have to mention the opposition. [[Demonstrative applause at the FPÖ.]] [[Oho-Rufe at SPÖ.]] We know that the economic situation across Europe and internationally is not easy. Austria is very good in comparison with the whole. We owe this to our entrepreneurs and our employees, who are working hard to secure and create jobs. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This co-operation between entrepreneurs and workers guarantees high competitiveness, but the economic-invigorating measures in this budget are also responsible. Remember that the funding initiative for thermal renovation for the coming years will provide €500 million, that for the young entrepreneurs' offensive, decided by the Federal Government, GmbH will be provided new €60 million. These are very, very important measures. This extends to the promotion of corporate investment, to the consistent implementation of the tourism strategy – Mr. Hörl and Mr. Co. have already carried it out – up to the promotion of further business settlements. These are the measures that guarantee that we can keep our young people and the high level, but also ensure the quality of our teaching as a top education. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I am therefore pleased, Minister, that you have succeeded in providing for these important measures in this budget. The motto applies to me: In the past, invest instead of repair later. And that is guaranteed with this budget.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e43370	Next speaker: Mr Themessl. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e43391	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Values Advisors! Mr Federal Minister, you certainly know the saying: “Take a fist if you don’t have a finger!” If you look at your budget as Minister of Economic Affairs, you’d have to assume that you’re actually a “poor dog” with us. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But now I do not agree with economic competence, you have, I know. And I also know that you have the unbridled will to achieve something positive for the economy. [[Federal Minister Dr. Mitterlehner: Thank you!]] What do you want? However, you are already doing with this budget? Now I quote you from the current edition of the publication of the Industrial Association – which you know – an interview with you. You will answer the question: “Does Austria have a new economic programme?” – “Mitterlehner: “A new economic programme cannot afford Austria.” – And that in times of worsening – yes, yes, I have even more for you – economic data, of rising unemployment and, and, and. [[Federal Minister Dr. Mitterlehner: Read on!]] And you know that without investment, especially in more difficult times, it is not possible. Before I forget it, I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! If investment grants, if already economic programmes, when, if not exactly at a time when the economy is stagnating, if we are in danger of going into recession. We are, of course, obliged to secure and preserve jobs in Austria, not to say, perhaps to get more jobs and not to keep the number of unemployed going. Now you're looking at your budget, and you're gonna be bad. It is a collection of such antique historical budget approaches as cultural buildings and property management with €84 million, then institutionalized eich and surveying with €85 million. Then stay – thank God! – a little bit left for the important area of tourism. But then your €421 million is already exhausted. This brings us back to the problem that I have been addressing for years, namely that economic policy is no longer being made by the Minister for Economic Affairs and not by this Federal Government, but by the social partners. They are given what you have to do in front of ÖGB, the Chamber of Labour and the Chamber of Commerce. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] These are people who have not worked properly in the economy, in the real economy, who at all do not know what would be necessary now to revitalize the economy in order to re-initiate economic growth in order to secure jobs. But just they tell you what you have to do. You are to be sorry – I'm sorry that I'm just bringing it out – Mr. Federal Minister! [[hustle and renunciation]] It's bad. We had the discussion about apprenticeship training yesterday. Federal Minister! They are constantly beaten by the economy, because we are constantly in need of skilled workers. In Upper Austria and Vorarlberg alone, the shortage of skilled workers has already grown to over 100,000 people, rising! You are not the one who is responsible for ensuring that young people comply with a reasonable apprenticeship training, the dual apprenticeship training – you know, a demonstration project all over the world. This is not done, however, because it falls within the competence of the Minister of Labour. I have repeatedly stressed over the past four years that it was a mortal sin of this government that separated the Federal Ministry of Economic Affairs and Labour. That can't be separated! There are no jobs without a functioning economy. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And on the other hand, there is no functioning economy without good workers or employees. There's no such thing as that! And I'll tell you something about teaching: They promised in the summer of 2008 that they would create 5 000 additional occupational apprenticeships. Do you know what happened since that time? – Ten thousand occupational apprenticeships have been lost in the last four years. We have lost 5,000 teaching establishments, but we now have 10,000 young people in so-called ÜLAs, where a youth costs €17 000 in the year. All of this you promised at the time, and the very opposite has occurred because you – not you personally – are not yourself guilty, but your partner in the Ministry of Labour – put the completely wrong measures and provide 230 million € in budget resources for the so-called over-company training, which does not guarantee dual teaching at all. Everyone who sits inside here knows this and at least once worked a day in the normal economy. You know that! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And you know what I don't understand? They once or the previous government had an expert. His name was Egon Blum. He has been in apprenticeship training for decades, not as a theorist, as you are active from the desk, but in the middle of it. He has proved it, and they can read all the figures, all statistics, that this was a success model. Egon Blum also deals with the fact that the economy is constantly changing and that this also requires permanent adaptation and change of apprenticeship training. You don't. I just don't understand, Minister of State. As I said, I am excited about what you want with the few budget resources in economically difficult times. Then something to one of my previous speakers, Mr. Lettenbichler, it was, I think: You'll all come out – I think you've already been the 50th of the government parties – and say: Great, we are the best in Europe, we have the best numbers! and, and, and. [[Call the ÖVP:We are too!]] Except that you're tricking – you know that anyway –: How to explain Do you then feel that Austria has dropped to 21th place in the competition ranking of 18th place in 2011? [[Abg. Head: What is that? Is that the economic data or the surveys?]] Do you know where Austria was five years ago? – There we were in 11th place. To congratulations!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e43524	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e43585	Next speaker: Minister of State Dr. Mitterlehner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e43606	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Themessl, your emotional presentation has not entirely complied with the content, because this speech – you can read your speeches over the past few years – is held every year. They always measure this by the available budget resources. They're the way they are. The question is: What do you do with it? In this context, it has already been mentioned several times that Austria is not an island of the Blessed, but relatively we have developed very well. First, look at the growth! Other countries have a growth below zero; we will have 0.8 percent this year despite all the problems. This is the twelfth year in which we are better than the other countries. On the topic of youth unemployment and employment: We have record employment. We have the best situation in Europe in the youth employment that you criticise. They repeatedly address the question of teaching places: You have to recognize something else in the teaching position problem, and that's why I'm almost concerned because you're always quoting the flower bonus. The Blum-Bonus – for the hundredth time – was geared towards creating additional teaching places with promotions. Now we have exactly the opposite problem: You can't find enough apprentices. We have a teaching gap. In some federal states, for example now also in Upper Austria – which used to be the case in Salzburg in the tourism sector – one has an overhang at open teaching places. So the problem has been quantitatively wrong. You might want to answer that at the next speech! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Member of the European Parliament, I find it very difficult to assess the economic data – you can see it – but also the rankings. You always quote a ranking. Have you read the last of the World Economic Forum? From 19 we have taken a small step to 16 to stay in your diction. [[Abg. Themessl: We've been to 14!]] This is a tendency forward. That's what I see? - Positive! Now I would not necessarily like to follow up on what the past has done, but I ask these questions: What can we do, of course, with more modest means than before, to succeed in the future? How can we put the weight? Where do we not need to shorten in order to succeed in the future? Let me give you an example: What the Ministry of Economic Affairs is doing, we have put very much on innovation. Although we have a slight reduction in the 2013 budget, the reserves allow us to meet the budget path set by the Council, which is that we are expanding from € 110 million to € 115 million. This enables us to keep exactly the path at the F&E-Quote. Don't say it doesn't matter. Innovation – we have a study by Wifo – expresses the following: The companies that have less than 2 percent research and development rate have an increase of 2 percent of jobs per year; those that have more than 5 percent have 4 percent more jobs. You can see from this that it's right where we invest. Innovation creates jobs. Yesterday I was in Krems at a company that increased from 12 to 40 in three years. Do you know how high there – who are active in the medical field – is the research rate? – 14 percentage points! That's where the future lies! That's where we're investing! Second point: We have no reduction as regards the thermal renovation. I think that's perfectly right. In the meantime, the construction industry has also sprang up. We had a relatively sluggish use, because the summer actually went better than many feared, only winter is not as good as hoped. That is why we will have to put in place other measures in the area, and this will be applied together. We are pleased to have a total of €100 million available next year. Thirdly, we have no restriction on Austria's advertising. That's where most say: What is it to be able to maintain the funds? I find this particularly positive in times like this, because we are also focusing on domestic advertising, and tourism contributes to domestic consumption, particularly positive development. I don't think I need to explain that anymore. The non-existent colleague Hörl has already informed you of the many times here. Fourth point – which applies to the ÖHT –: We also have a small reduction at the ÖHT. However, by extending the liability for ERP credits, we can more than equalise this reduction and will be able to finance increasing investments in tourism. It has also been referred to in the budget for the Internationalisation Plan, Mr Cot. – Mr Themessl, I am sorry to have to quote you so many times, but you have put it very well, but unfortunately negative. – The social partners work hand in hand – pleased. ‘go-international’ has helped us very much on the way, not only to export within Europe, but also to other markets. We now have a decline in Europe's dependence, but we are successful in other markets. Of course we will continue this programme. I didn't hear it from you, but I think it's particularly important. Internationalisation will help us to be competitive even in the future. With this I also come to the apprentices: As far as the apprentices are concerned, we already have the situation that we do not spend less in total. Together with what our colleague, Mr Hundstorfer, has in the budget, we have €330 million. We have not restricted basic funding. This still amounts to € 120 million. [[Call at the FPÖ:And where does quality assurance remain?]] Quality-related support is € 40 million. That is why the accusation – which came from someone else – is that we would shorten, not; it will only be oriented and handled differently in terms of quality. Today the proportion of women has been raised several times. I say to our ministry: We have fulfilled this 25 percent quota for each of the eight institutions we provide. We have a single institution, that is the union where this is not the case, because the Supervisory Board has just been ordered before – but also with an additional Supervisory Board – and on the next occasion it will be fulfilled there. Finally, as far as the part of the measure is concerned, I should like to point out that, of course, we are also facing a trend with the Young Entrepreneurship Plan. What trend is that? – Yes, in times of crisis, when everyone is sorry, one will not necessarily want to start a business. Therefore, with the Young Entrepreneurship Fund, if the bank loans are more difficult to reach, there is, of course, an opportunity to re-emerge just as the Business Angels do. Mrs Lichtenecker! Many have probably received the emails from Mr Staudinger, and many have sympathy for Mr Staudinger. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Right!]] – Rightly, that’s absolutely all right; he’s really a skilled businessman. But don't even believe, if you're looking at legitimate problems with banks, problems in Greece or elsewhere, that this can't be justified in constructing some kind of Wild West, or a "wild forest district", according to the motto: [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Where is the Wild West?]] I'll do what I want. Now I call you exactly the middle path: Of course, it would also be possible to reach a legal solution with a private savings model, with participation models. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: It's on the banks!]] But if someone goes here and says, no, no, that may cost money and a cooperative model I do not want to realize, and then deal with the principle question – yes, ladies and gentlemen, if everyone does what he wants with the subjective claim, we derive it from the crisis!, then you no longer have the rule of law, but then you have a naked arbitrariness. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: The banks do what they want!]] [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Who is that arbitrary? The banks!]] Is that what you want? - Then suggest it! I think your line is more heading in the other direction, you want to cover everything, don't?, cover rental prices and cover other cover. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] You mentioned something else: the efficiency law. Others may also be able to bring it. I would like to tell you the following: The EU, and we have been waiting for it, has adopted its directive on efficiency in September. On the basis of this directive, we have also developed this draft law. There are still a few questions to be answered. If you make a CHP promotion – which is desirable – then the money has to come somewhere. We will not get it from the budget, so the question will be whether it comes out of the system. We shall still have to clarify this question. Ladies and gentlemen! All in all, if you look at what economic development is, I think Austria is quite well placed. We have not cut the budget evenly, but have focused on the main priorities. I am therefore very confident that we will be successful next year.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e43768	Next speaker: Mr Lipitsch. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e43789	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr Venier, I have your speech as not very remarkable, if not even perceived as a great ugliness. Here, people who receive social benefits, especially at the family debate, where we discuss what families get, defamation and say that there is no return there, I feel as naughtiness. You have also referred to the pension grant. I would like to say: Mr Venier is still very young, but he should consider who built this republic, who worked for this Republic. These people today have a pension with which they can live today. I think we must fully acknowledge that. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Hornek.]] Now back to the family area: We have already discussed the apprentice and student free rides this week. As I said, this youth ticket is something that is very dear to my heart. I do not think, Mr Minister, that there is anything in the current budget that should come only in the autumn of 2013/2014, but it should be the goal that those who enjoy training should not be burdened with the rides on the families. This is my request to you to extend it accordingly when negotiating with the federal states. They have also announced the conversion of the FLAF. There will be a surplus for the first time in the coming year. You said we had to cut down the high debt mountain once. Yeah, I think that's right. But we should think about how the FLAF is fed when it is rebuilt, because there is the main burden on the workers. We know from the history of how this came about, namely by a wage ban. But all groups take this into account. I believe that it is important that, when this is reformed, we also create a corresponding compensation. In recent years, Federal Minister, much has happened in the family sector, but we still have a lot to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e43845	Mr Lipitsch, you know that we do not use certain terms by common accord here and that we also call for an order. They did this not only once, namely, the term “freak” in the direction of Mr Venier and his speech. [[Abg. May. Gaßner: “Frequentness ” can be no unword!]] We all have a free mandate, so we appreciate it that way. You even said that's a big freak, and then you repeated it again. For the multiple use of this word I give you a call for order. I would ask you to make your speech different in the future. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Gaßner: Can we have the list of “Frequentness ” in it?]] The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Haider. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e43905	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Before I may end up with the time, I will make the following request at the beginning: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is not to be seen why § 71 of the Federal Budget Act of the Republic of Austria states that the State must have its accounts with a bank owned by an American hedge fund. The current regulation comes from a time when the PSK was still in the sole possession of the Republic and no one could imagine at that time that this was ever changing. Experience from the economy shows that regular calls for tender from time to time are quite good. This does not mean that the Republic should constantly change bank accounts. This would be counterproductive only because of the administrative costs, but a new invitation to tender at certain intervals certainly creates competition among the institutes. But now to the budget, ladies and gentlemen: As a FPÖ tourist speaker and as the chairman of the Tourism Committee, it is really very, very difficult for me to find something positive on this budget. My colleague, Mr Hörl, tourist spokesperson of the ÖVP, has not dared to say anything about tourism. [[Call the FPÖ:Ignorant!]] He referred to the Minister of Economic Affairs as the Minister of Exports in order only to avoid tourism. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Strache: He has nothing to say!]] Ladies and gentlemen, the tourism and leisure industry, this sector, which is so important for Austria, with 630 000 jobs, 126 million stays, directly and indirectly contributed 14.5 percent to GDP in the previous year, every fifth full-time job. [[Abg. Hörl: I already said that! That was my intellectual property!]] – You said the sixth, that’s not quite right, it’s even every fifth. Tourism is the economic sector with the greatest increase in prosperity, saving the current account each year. And as a thank you for that, there is nothing but a burden and that every year, ladies and gentlemen, on the new one! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I only recall the deterioration of the last few years in the application rules, in the cash movement regulation, in addition to the introduction of the ticket tax, the AMS manipulation fee, which is really contrary to the economy, the abolition of energy cost compensation, the additional wage increases, the depreciation periods are not even looked at for years, let alone adjusted, VAT. – All of this, Mr Federal Minister, is issues where you are sparse and where there has been only deterioration for the hard working people in tourism, for employers and also for workers. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Now, in the new budget, the budget for the Austrian hotel and tourism bank will also be reduced by € 2 million and the reduction of the budget for Austria's advertising by the non-debt of inflation. This, Minister of Economic Affairs, is really nothing you could be proud of. A budget that is already small will also be enormously cut down. As you conduct the budget negotiations with your party friend Fekter, I don't dare to imagine that.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e44010	The application has been properly filed and is under negotiation. [[Verbatim report of proceedings, see p. 611.]] Next speaker: Mr. Singer. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e44037	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I am very pleased – and the Federal Minister has already mentioned it – that support for thermal renovation will be available again in 2013. Thank you very much. You know, 50 million € come from the economic resort and from the Ministry of Life. A brief look at the figures of this year: By October, around 12 200 projects were funded with a funding volume of around €43.5 million. In total, this was an investment volume of €490 million. That is, salopp said that funding can still be collected in 2012. Ladies and gentlemen! The Rehabilitation Check has become a very important instrument in many respects. I am thinking of the standard in Austrian housing, which will be secured in the long term. I am thinking of the orders given to small and medium-sized enterprises. I am thinking of securing jobs, of the value added that remains in the country. I am thinking of the revival of urban and urban cores, and I am also thinking of the incentive to save energy. Ladies and gentlemen! This promotion action is an important element in implementing the energy strategy in Austria as best as possible. A debate is currently taking place on the housing market on a proposal by the Deputy Mayor Maria Vassilakou of the Vienna Greens to introduce rent price limits. In other words, I come to the attitude which our Federal Minister has already mentioned. I am clear to you that these are compulsory interventions in free contracts that are proposed. For me, this is unconstitutional and therefore strictly unacceptable. Ladies and gentlemen! Quite clearly – and I think we all agree –: Living has to be keepable. But not only the purchase price and the rents are cost factors, but of course also the operating costs. And there it is already very pious when, in Vienna, the red-green city government, and thus also Mrs Vassila, cold, the operating costs were driven up by massive increases in fees and therefore the housing was expensive and now calls for a rent price limit. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP as well as with the representatives of the FPÖ.]] You all know, rent price limits slow down investments. But we need exactly the opposite. We don't need a shortage in the housing market, we need additional apartments. We also need thermal renovation in order to reduce operating costs and we need modern-day apartments and a new building that is suitable for needs. I am thinking in particular of compaction, for example, of increases in urban areas, but also of increased revitalisation in urban and urban centres. There too, and this has already been shown in the past, thermal renovation is an important measure. A functioning market is not only price-regulating, it also strengthens the labour market. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to say that I am pleased that the Bau-Holz trade union, according to an issue in the creation of additional dwellings and in the implementation of the thermal renovation, also sees the right way to make living in the future more manageable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e44098	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Höbart. Second word. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e44120	Mr President. Federal Minister! You just said: second word. And why? – For the first time the topic of youth has been dealt with, now the topic of economics. Mr Minister, you have just made a point on our proposal, but in the direction of Blum-Bonus, you have raised an objection that there is a job overhang at the moment. [[Federal Minister Dr. Mitterlehner: In some federal states!]] – In some federal states. That's your thesis. Now, of course, we ask ourselves why 10 000 young people are still parked in over-company training centres. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig.]] So I am lacking any logic, Mr Minister of Economic Affairs, when you speak of a teaching post overhang, why at least a large part of these young people cannot be used in these courses. That's just so mentioned on the verge. Mr. Minister of Economic Affairs, you mentioned a ranking earlier. I will now read to you again a headline of the last week’s “profile”, just as I did yesterday to Federal Minister Schmied in the field of education: At half-mast our Republic is, that is fact, and especially in the economic and educational sphere we are slipping more and more clearly and the arrows are clearly pointing down. – So that’s the ‘profile’. You don't see it like that, and there's nothing to suggest. A few years ago, Germany looked quite interested over the borders. There we Austrians have shown the Germans practically where the Bartl brings the most. Today, all economic indicators clearly show that our big brother has overtaken us again. You have to take note of this. Perhaps we can learn a lot from these strategies that our German neighbor is driving. That's what you have to say here, it's just like that. That was different ten years ago, you're right, you've been very happy to mention it. Now it's just the other way around. In our opinion, there is certainly a reason to see what Mr Bernhard Themessl said that ultimately the resorts work and business are separate. It doesn't make any sense to separate them either. The fact that one finally separates these two departments has only the only background that the Minister of Labour of the Social Democratic Environment, from the Chamber of Workers, has to come out of the trade union environment and, on the other hand, to lead the economic resort from an economic chamberer. That's always the same game as the dolls have then few you in hand, that's what you have to say clearly. And, of course, there is no really innovative thing to happen in this republic, and you have to see it clearly. And last but not least, one has to say that this is due to this functional gap, which has widened in Austria since the beginning of the Second Republic, and this functional gap unfortunately still has the threads in this Republic. Mr Minister, put up a little more courage to invest and implement in future points! I would now like to make a few points. We believe that it is important to introduce centrally controlled funding for forward-looking companies and projects and to reduce the use of casting cans. We must focus on securing headquarters here in Austria, no, not only securing, but also expanding. This is, of course, about tax aspects, about well-trained and trained employees. It would also be important for the development, which I have already said today, of technology parks. It is also important to finally increase public funding for equity capital to set up young companies. This is certainly a point where you should invest wisely. And, Minister of Economic Affairs, one point is also important to me: Finally, make the banks easier to make capital available to small and medium-sized enterprises in particular! There is currently a credit terminal. There is certainly a great need for follow-up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e44175	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Matznetter. 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e44197	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr President, you have given Mr Lipitsch a call for an order because of the expression 'freak'. I do not want to comment on this, but for us it was very, very important to hear the position taken by Mr Venier. We will select this from the Stenographical Protocol, because this is revealing for the policy that FPÖ is making in this House. Yesterday, the Minister of Social Affairs was attacked that the increase in pensions was extremely low, and said that it was a community towards the pensioners. Today, Mr Venier makes himself and explains that all of this needs to be reduced in reality. This reveals which position is taken in truth. And then some of your group are coming out here and raining on it if We call for the recovery of incomes, of millionaire taxes. That would be anti-economic. The opposite is the case. If we are already billing, I would like to say the following: Mr Lettenbichler, I would like to give you a small recommendation on France-Bashing. I still remember, six, seven years ago, it was here on this pult about the red-green government in Germany, which wrong policy is being pursued there. Today we look at how Germany is among the best-forming in Europe from the reform policy of the time under red-green. The government is only in office for a few months in France. As far as the first quarter is concerned, which is now entering the new form of government, the comment of all economic researchers is amazing. While all the Roman countries are in recession, France is not amazed at the recession, it must not be forgotten! If 58 multimillionaires say we don't want to pay any more taxes, it hurts the economic location, then you believe that. France is able, for example, to intervene in Peugeot at the right moment before something happens. I hope that we will also have the reserves and the structures when it comes to a management operation, and I will say so at this point. So far, we have an excellent policy in the country. Mr Federal Minister, I would like to congratulate you, as it were, always on a limited basis. In your case, however, there are two special features, first of all a very good cooperation with the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs of Hundstorfer, and this cooperation also enables one to show together the successes here, starting with employment, especially in the field of youth employment. This proves that we are on the right track in the area of economic policy. All of your initiatives in the field of young entrepreneurs promotion, GmbH light, which you have just launched at government level, are in the right way to send the right signals: social security for one-person companies and micro-enterprises, health care for these, doubling the weekly allowance for mothers who are self-employed. This also encourages women to be self-employed. That's a good measure. And you will prove to us that this country will continue to be on the top of the job situation. In spite of all the opposition's unmistakable calls: We have not heard any other proposals for a better policy here, even from Mr Themessl, who forgets a few things about Mr Blum. The success of Mr Blum's model is that in the metal industry in Vorarlberg there is an over-company training. If you hold back your speeches here, I would like to point out that the two ministers have fought youth unemployment best for all the ministers in Europe, especially in the field of apprentices. We have no such thing. That is why this is a good policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e44245	Next speaker: Mrs. Dr. Winter. 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e44266	Mr President. Minister! High house! Let me, Mr Matznetter, just repeat what you said to my colleague, Mr Venier. Mr Venier is a very young colleague, and he is concerned about whether he and his young people whom he represents are later once a pension will be received. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] He also did not attack the pensioners, because it was precisely us who were very criticised that the pensioners had been granted only 1.8 percent instead of 2.8 percent as an increase. And: We are still convinced that the Blum bonus is the far better solution, and we do not let that happen because there is also the relevant data on it. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr Minister, I would also like to replicate your remarks. You said you were very proud that you achieved or almost reached 25 percent of the gender target. Your target number five is also the gender. I would like to say that I believe that there are a lot of men who feel disadvantaged, and I too feel disadvantaged. For it used to be that a woman could not be well enough trained and she was still not promoted, and today it is like this: The worse she is trained, the better she is promoted. - And we totally disagree with that. This is not the principle that we want to bring women into those positions they belong to. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In the past weeks and this week, I must say, there has been a lot of talk in these sacred halls about the final budget 2013 to be decided today. Millions of words have gone through the halls here, and we have left behind a huge, deep carbon footprint. Is this footprint also sustainable? If I look at the billions fixed and positioned by Mrs Fekter, I say there is no sustainability of our speeches. And I would really like to appeal to all our Members here, to all of us together and ask: Is not there any reason in our behaviour that our importance in the population is so low? Unfortunately, since my time has already advanced very far, I can only say one thing: We criticise this budget, because it is conceptual and a sign of inexperience, powerlessness and courage. Who are you hurting? – You are harming the future, you are damaging the youth; for what are you producing? – They produce a so-called NINJA generation, a generation with no income, no jobs and no assets. And that is exactly what we want to prevent, ladies and gentlemen, and that is exactly what we are defending against. I've been looking for a little excuse for you, because you've always tried to protect the rulers, too. I found a quote from Sir William Pitt, House of Lords. He says – and this is a quote that your Federal Chancellor Faymann is likely to be very familiar with –: “It is something behind the throne that is greater than the king himself.”
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e44333	The next speaker was Mr Steindl. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e44354	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! My friend Christoph Matznetter isn't in the hall right now, but one thing has already been said: Under the red-green government of Germany, there has been the highest unemployment. Thank God the Sarkozy government in France has been so cautious and has created the corresponding reserves, so that the current President can take appropriate measures with a view to boosting the economy. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But how you do it is obviously wrong. Today, we have heard again and again, especially from the opposition parties, that the budget must be consolidated by the expenditure side. At the same time, for example, from Mr Themessl today or from others, we hear that they are motivating about the fact that, for example, in the economic resort, we have savings in costs of 5%, very efficiently, because we are simply trying to consolidate the budgets through the expenditure side. However, in the event of an efficient and prudent activity, as the Minister has just done in the past, one can be even there, in order to be able to put in place economic support measures. The budget of the Economic Area contains a number of measures that will continue to revive the economy. I refer only to the thermal renovation which has been mentioned many times today and which is really a great success in terms of our construction industry, but also of our citizens. But also the Internationalisation Plan is a very important part, which does not cost much. This is so that our Minister of Economic Affairs and Economic Delegations is also on the move in the countries to maintain contacts there, and together with the foreign trade industry, an organization of the Chamber of Commerce, always brings very excellent success home. Tourism, promotion of young entrepreneurs, all these things and measures have already been addressed. Research and development are an essential part. There is no reduction in expenditure. They're being further expanded. We know that two thirds of our growth is indirectly linked to innovation and quality improvement. I believe that this is a very good way to continue supporting the economy and continue to provide the best employment situation in Austria. The data speak a very clear language. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e44399	Next speaker: Mrs Silhavy. 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e44421	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! First of all, a suggestion to all of us, to the political groups of this House: Indeed, budgetary reform has completely changed the structure of the budget, namely through the objectives of impact, measures and factors of success. Perhaps we should consider together, today is already the third day of this budget debate, and in the future also the budget debate of this budgetary reform is to be adapted and structured slightly differently. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Thank you. Federal Minister! In the detailed brochure 40.02.01 Economic promotion can be found as Objective 3 of tourism, I am very pleased. However, I believe that we also need to become a little more precise in terms of objectives and, above all, in terms of key figures. To take an example: ‘Implementation of the tourism strategy through impulse and image projects and project-related support’. We have a strategy relevance of at least 50 percent of the projects funded. This is actually the only characteristic that can be seen as a measure in these goals. However, the quality of this effect orientation means that comprehensible success indicators are also associated with it. This is an essential element of parliamentary work. Now I already know that if you take key figures exactly, then there is a certain danger that key figures are not necessarily achieved, we all know that the economy is not the same, but that there are significant fluctuations. But the path where it should go is nevertheless measurable key numbers. I would also like to mention one point: one critical point: In the Tourism Action Plan, a number of points have been taken to ensure that the workplace is attracted to tourism and also training. I have found that tourism does not play a role in corporate labour market promotion, something I already lack. I would also like to make a reply to a previous speaker, I think it was Mrs Winter, who spoke against the quota: Mrs Winter, quota is precisely a result of quality, because only with equal qualifications can quota be achieved at all. That is what you should say to calm down, and you should give it to men as an incentive, because then they too can better measure their performance in the future. I think quota is a good recipe, a success recipe because it requires quality and qualification.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e44469	Next speaker: Mr Obernosterer. 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e44490	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Thematic tourism: The fact is, the tourism budget has been reduced by € 2 million. But if you look into the depths, you see where this money has been cut short and what has happened there. For example, the budget of the ÖHT has been reduced by 2 million, but the funding system has also been converted. There is this pyramid funding, and the first figures show that more farms can now be supported than before, since the funding with a minimum investment area is covered by the countries and the higher subsidies, as I said, are covered by the federal government. In addition, as the Federal Minister has already said, the liability has also been extended. Many were also criticized for not extending the budget for Austria's advertising. - We know the budget: The budget has remained the same. We also know, however, that the new intensive cooperation of Austria's advertising with the federal states is much more coordinated and that much more markets can be covered and much more action is being taken with the same means. In the budget, not only should you look at the figures alone, but you should look at the budget, which remains below the line: Has it become less or has it become more? In the tourism sector and in this tourism budget, it is so that although the funds have been reduced to a minimum, there is still an added effect for businesses. I do not need to explain the Austrian tourism industry and its figures here today: It is a success story, which was also shown in 2008. In this crisis year tourism was actually one of the stability factors of the Austrian economy. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mr Federal Minister, as I said: Thank you for this wise decision!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e44539	The next speaker was Mr Pilz. If desired, 10 minutes of speaking time will be set. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e44560	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister Mitterlehner, you have most recently said very clearly in the “Oberösterreichische Nachrichten”: In their opinion, the purchase of 15 Eurofighters by the Federal Ministry of State Defense is not a clean business. – I say quite openly to you: I'm perfectly of your opinion, you convinced me. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Mayerhofer.]] We are, I remember, sitting together in the Eurofighter Investigation Committee – I, as a Member of the Greens, you as a Member of the Austrian People's Party – and I remember you asking a number of questions to the former Minister of Finance Grasser, for example, which may ask him not only in Vienna today. And it would have been better for me if you and not the current Minister of Finance had been the leader of the political groups – but you can't choose everything. Now you are faced with a greater task than at the time in the investigation committee, namely to clarify – not only on behalf of the prosecutor's office, but also as the responsible minister of the department – what has really happened around the counter-actions. And I remind you of the following: The perhaps most important result of the investigation committee was a booking line in the financial act via Euro Business Development GmbH in Vienna, this company, which has been commissioned by EADS to deal with the so-called counter-actions. Since we had the financial act come, we cleared a trust, saw, behind it, fifty-fifty two Vienna arms dealers hide, and then there was a booking line – and that was perhaps the most valuable result of the investigation committee – from Vector Aerospace to EBD: 120 000 €. And all of us – that is, that part of the Committee of Inquiry, to which I also call you, who wanted to clarify the case of Eurofighter, asked us a question at the time: Who's Vector Aerospace? EBD we knew, but who's Vector Aerospace? – However, we were not allowed to load the decisive persons – something similar – because a majority of the government decided to terminate the investigation committee. - That's nothing new. We have continued research in the Green Club and have found out about very long and difficult research at Dover Street 31 in London Vector Aerospace: a letterbox company that, after our research, we have found and studied all the balance sheets and all the documents – € 87 million. And we only found one thing: In the Annual Reports on this company stands inside, it has been established exclusively to carry out the counter-businesses of EADS Germany with the Republic of Austria via Eurofighter. And five pages further back, under the heading “Employees”: This company has no employees. And that was an exciting point: How can a company at Dover Street 31 in London carry out counter-businesses of € 87 million without a single employee? Then we sent a question to the Minister for Economic Affairs and asked him: Do you know the company Vector Aerospace?, because the platform counter-businesses and the Ministry of Economics had to confirm each individual counter-business with stamp and signature. And the true answer of the Minister of Economic Affairs, if I remember correctly, was that already you, Mr Mitterlehner, the true answer of the Minister of Economic Affairs: This company is completely unknown. The company Centro Consult, the next mailbox, is also unknown. And even all the other letter boxes are unknown, only do these obviously with Eurofighter money enormous revenues and don't have any employees. So, at least in the letterbox sector, the Eurofighter programme was not a major job success. That's how much you can hold on to it. We then continued research and gave it to the Public Prosecutor's Office in Vienna. The public prosecutor's office in Vienna has started investigations on this subject. We then found that all these letter boxes were founded by one and the same person: Gianfranco Lande, an Italian citizen. Who was that? – We have found out through industry inquiries: a mailbox specialist, who is also employed by others. And then I – and that was the second coincidence after this booking line – get a call from a New York journalist who tells me that he just wanted to tell me that Gianfranco Lande was arrested for a pitched investment fraud in Rome. I then packed all my Eurofighter documents and went to the prosecutor's office in Rome, discussed the case with him – I had a country confession before, in which he declared that the money came to 100 percent of EADS Germany; we didn't know that until then – and gave him the whole material. This made it clear to the Roman prosecutor what it was all about, and then he commissioned house searches with our Vienna material, which we have searched. And these house searches were carried out by the Guardia di Finanza last year in Rome at the company Alenia Aermacchi, which is one of the four owners of Eurofighter GmbH. There are all lubrication contracts found – all! As the Spielberg invoice has been found, the Lakeside account has been found, everything has been found in this context. And there has been some very important indications – that will concern us in the next few days – about a very strange activity of the then Carinthian head of state Dr. Jörg Haider, who was perhaps involved in this business as an Allerster in a very specific way. That is why I am not doing this today, because I am talking about counter-businesses, but we will be able to clarify the role of Haider in the next few days. [[Abg. May. Widmann: Put the evidence on the table!]] And then what happened? – Then we have come up with everything there is called “counter business”, or almost everything – there are a few positive exceptions, but they are in two-digit millions – they are dizzy business! Dirty business! And then I picked up the files again and looked at the counter-businesses: They're adventurous! That, Mr Federal Minister, is the question I would like to address to you now and must: Will you ensure that these so-called counter-businesses, where every official should have been examined, with some sort of material care, that the fraud business is another? My personal suspicion is that the problem was not your officials, but the problem was the internal rules for certifying counter-businesses. If I understood this correctly, the officials had only the task of checking: Is there the company, has the right one signed in the company and does it fit temporarily? – But the content of the counter-businesses has not been examined, and that is the point. And that's why there's almost nothing but swindler business and a huge counter-business fraud – at least the suspicion of it – in billions of height. And every lost tax euro due to dizziness is a damage to the Republic and is a damage to the budget. That is why we are interested in finding out all of this. – That's why a final suggestion. The Minister of Defence is currently refusing to do the only reasonable thing, namely to ensure that the financial procuratorship as a private party in the interests of the Republic joins all criminal proceedings. That is why I ask you, Minister of Economic Affairs: If the Minister of Defense does not, you will! You too have the possibility! And I ask you because I know you are facing this business and many others around it with the greatest skepticism. I ask you to: Do so, and report to Parliament as soon as possible what your investigations have done on counter-businesses! – This too can bring us a significant step closer to the resolution of the contract. Due to the material I now know, I assume that we can resolve the Eurofighter Treaty by March or April 2013 at the latest, get all the money back and leave the clump back to Germany as far as it is still capable of flying. For the most part, I fear, we will have to transport the Austrian Bundesbahnen, but that certainly falls into another department. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e44628	Now, Mr. Federal Minister, Dr. Mitterlehner, is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e44649	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Pilz has asked a number of questions. I have heard that you have discussed the subject in here anyway, so I have no problem with presenting my position – what these counter-businesses are about to do. I say quite frankly to you: I have already assessed the other part, the basic business, but I would like to say a few things. First of all, I would like to say why we were at all involved and why we have even commented: not because the colleague asked Pilz, but because various media – and not only Austrian, but also “Der Spiegel”, the “Economics Week” – have raised written questions to us with the following background. Thus, with all the history you know in part, Eurofighter may have paid over a complex bond of companies for the official representation of counter-reactions that actually did not exist. Now I tell you from my responsibility as Minister of Economic Affairs that I fully shoulder my responsibility regardless of the attitude. That is to say, the counter-businesses are examined in detail and in addition, that is, in the plain text, there is a platform of experts who not only examines whether they have been processed, whether they have been signed, whether they have been paid, but they are also questioned on the basis of the counter-business contract. Technological and other orientations are also included. - That's the one level. Secondly, economic fidelity also checks the other part, namely whether it has its correctness in terms of numbers, from the background of the Treaty and elsewhere. And now I'm telling you the following: From my point of view, this is a process that is perfectly transparent, and after the sum of counter-actions has now been reached de facto, we will do one thing – because on the other hand, there are also questions on the part of the prosecutor –: When it comes to an overall assessment, we will wait for these questions to be raised, as the public prosecutor decides. I have been able to understand during the emergency last week, as a Member has said, a pre-examination or a judicial investigation is not yet a pre-judgment or even a conviction. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen: We will wait for this development and, on the second hand, we will not grant any relief to the consortium which has introduced the counter-businesses, unless this part has been examined accordingly. – And beyond that, I have nothing to say. This is a serious process. Any company that has filed business with us can also rely on us not to publish any documents. I can also say that as far as the company Magna, which has now been quoted in the FORMAT, is concerned: This happened months ago, but we did not come to the public – that would have been enough opportunity. This also applies to the other companies. That is why, in this part of the entire process, a very concrete, serious procedure is announced by us, which was also observed before. That's why: If there is an error in this context, an assignment would be necessary, then I cannot fully understand it. And the other thing you can easily evaluate yourself, you don't need a lot of other needs for that. In this sense, my attitude is: Let's wait for this! The second point, because you might ask: Well, why does the point of impurity even come about? – Ladies and gentlemen, we are also asked about Lakeside: Has this matter been settled with you? – We then have to answer: No, we had nothing to do with this. Then I read in the newspapers, also with the corresponding facsimile representations, that in this context obviously a foundation has been established – in the order of € 4 or € 5 million – and at least the managing director of the Landesholding says that the whole of the money is still available, it has not been consumed. So the case, it could have been used for other purposes, has not occurred at all and the accusation is not understandable! Ladies and gentlemen, you know a donor somewhere today, a client who in 2006 points out € 4 million and after a few years finds out: No, actually, nothing went in the direction of research and technology, but the whole money is still in the account? – I don't think so! In itself, the money doesn't snow in that way! Therefore: If I find something strange beyond what has gone beyond our ministry – that is my personal opinion and has only to do with my duties – then you must form your own opinion. But what is going on with us in the ministry is complete and concretely comprehensible and will be so at the end. [[President Mag. Prammer is taking over the presidency again.]] We do not give discharge if this point has not occurred. And we're going to go through all the cases – not just sample-like – once again for screening, and then we're going to show that.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e44718	Mr Katzian. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e44740	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I say inadequately to the counter-businesses, because this is not my topic, I would suggest that you also look at whether these have actually been additional and not business that has already been partially started anyway, because at the time – as always – I was on my way to businesses and, of course, I also talked to the works councils there and heard: So, counter-businesses, please?- Oh, my God! That's what we would have done! That was already in the pipeline. – So you have to look at these things, I think, well. I wanted to speak about the energy budget, and I would like to say in the telegram style, Mr. Federal Minister, that: On the one hand, I believe that we will achieve a very low level again in the coming year after a modest intermediate height in the development of district heating and remote colds. We have considered an annual funding requirement of €60 million in the decision to promote infrastructure at the time; we will have €15 million next year, and therefore it will probably take some time to complete the pending projects. I very much hope that we will take a big step forward in the field of energy efficiency law next week. We adopted a joint resolution here in the House in July 2011. We have now adopted the directive within the framework of the European Union – even since the summer. In this directive, combined heat and power is one of the core technologies, and I also expect to see a proposal for combined heat and power as an essential part of district heating. I have already understood the reference to the budget, but it is true that the CHP funding has not already been taken out of the budget, but over the counting point fee. And I think and hope very much that we will find a way that fits all those involved. In my opinion, we urgently need this nationally uniform energy efficiency law, and we also need the additional €20 million already discussed on several occasions for district heating and remote cooling. As I said, I very much hope that we will succeed in the next few days and weeks, as a step forward, and I would like to conclude by saying just one more sentence on the debate that has taken place here before. I think it is good if we discuss very controversially and also very hard in the matter – that is living democracy – but what has shaken me a little, are statements such as “exhaustive social and welfare state” when Mr Themessl tells us that the social partners are supposed to be talking about the houses, and when there is talk of “functionary gap”. At the choice of words, you should also pay a little attention to how to deal with each other. I think there is a fundamental consensus in the Second Republic for the social state, including for the role of the social partners, and I would very much like this to be basic social consensus is also respected by all parties in the House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e44794	Mr Jury is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e44815	Madam President. Mr. Minister! High house! This basic consensus of the social partners is already good and right, but I would also recommend that the social partners take away the party political flaws so that we can also experience and discuss the real problems that the Austrian economy has of course. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Let's take a look at the tourism sector: Of course, the status quo of nights does not look quite as negative as that is partly presented. But where we have a big problem, and this has not been dealt with properly in the past, Minister, that is the summer burden of Austrian tourism. And over the last 20 years, German citizens have fallen by 50 percent. That means that there is a need for action in this respect. There is a need for action, particularly in the structural area, in the quality assurance of tourism and in-house accommodation. That's why I don't understand how to cut the funds for the ÖHT. On the European economic policy, I would just like to say once again that we are completely on the way to the wood, the wrong way. Today, the “Small Newspaper” is entitled: “Athens are looking for thousands of tax refugees”, Minister. And here I would ask you to use your weight at European level, your economic competence, so that we will not have to make our tax money earned madly in Austria available to Greek citizens for all eternity, but can strengthen our own economy. [[Federal Minister Dr. Mitterlehner: But not in Austria, right?]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We have enough problems in our area with the farmers, with the small traders and with the small merchant teams. [[Abg. May. Kogler: The Union wants that! Austria is blocking that!]] - Yes, yes, Mr Kogler, you'll be on it later. [[Abg. May. Kogler: The government is one of the perpetrators, not the victims!]] You're right, too. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Victim aid for Austria instead of culprit protection for the government!]] I would like to say: The eyes will only rise when the farmer drives out the last piece of cattle to the barn door, when the last worker leaves the workbench and when the last small merchant locks his business. Then both Austrians and politicians will face up! But then it will be too late! Therefore, it is urgently necessary to change this disorderly course of the European economy so that the Austrian population is at the heart of our political activity, because of course the red-and-white-red heart should beat first. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] European integration is important, but our heart is beating red-and-white!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e44911	Mrs Marek is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e44943	Madam President. Federal Minister! I am glad that we live in a stable, strong Austria and not in liberal Austria, in which many things are simply ill-treated and badly made! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] On family policy, ladies and gentlemen. Childcare money is one of the very strong, central pillars of Austrian family policy and with maximum freedom of choice a real success story. In 2013, there will be €1.1 billion for this, which is about 20 million more than was estimated last year. Positive is also the increasing use of income dependent child care and the massive increase in father participation. The Federal Minister also referred to it: on average, about 17 percent of fathers, on the one hand, and 31 percent on the other. This is a real success and a really great result. I welcome the campaign of the Minister for Women. There is also the need to promote awareness, because the fathers also need to develop even more awareness of it. Whether it's necessary to operate with fake numbers, I might doubt that. 5 per cent, says the Minister of Women – that is wrong; the Federal Minister has said it. Ladies and gentlemen! Just a short while to the figures of the liberals. I am already curious about how much the cost of the motions for resolutions which will be put in place during the budget debate will be as a whole. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kitzmüller.]] Again and again, Mrs Colleague, it is criticised that the deficit is too high that the costs are too high, but in total it is probably again Zigbillion euros that the liberals have brought in here. [[call to the FPÖ.]] Especially in the family area, Zigbillions Euro is more required. Mr Höbart asked us to give the money to the families and not to distribute it to all the countries. [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: Right! That's a good idea!]] Mr Höbart, I can relativize this a little: 78 million were estimated for the bilateral EZA next year, 10 million, says Ms. Mühlberghuber, family aid to EU and EEA area citizens, according to your request – only the annual valorisation of the family aid would cost 80 million next year with an increase of 2.5 percent, and then 162 million in 2014. [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: That's not worth your families, is it? How much do you send to Greece?]] Childcare allowance-Valorization: 2013: 20 million, 2014: 40.5 million €. So it's good when you know what you're talking about, and when you put the dimensions in the right light, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e45009	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Mulder. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e45031	Ladies and gentlemen! As a SPÖ building speaker, I would like to say something to the BIG very briefly. It was very surprising for us that – I also asked in the Committee on Budgets – the ARE was founded in August 2012 as a 100% subsidiary of the BIG. I was very pleased with the reply of our Minister when he said that It is mainly concerned with the rental and administration of the office, housing and office buildings and the development areas. But now there is a second question for me, namely: There is a 100 percent ARE subsidiary, the BIG E&V, which is responsible for project development and purchase and sale. And for me, the question arises whether the marketable properties and at what prices are sold because the properties, which are in themselves very low at the ARE, are sold. Another question also arises after the service sector of the BIG can no longer automatically manage its own objects of the subsidiary, whether this service sector cannot be more under pressure in the future. I would like to make one point about my colleague, Mr Singer. We have or I have discussed the MRG yesterday also in the competent judicial committee. I do not want to say anything about this, but only about the operating costs you have raised. Let's see how much the operating costs have increased: They rose by exactly 2 per cent, which corresponds to the general price, namely from €1.64 to €1.67 per square meter per month. The main focus of operating costs, i.e. a quarter of operating costs, is insurance of 26 percent. As regards the fees for water and waste, which are a transit post, this is different in the districts of Vienna. There is an operating cost mirror that can be viewed on the Internet. It's different, it's between 27 cents and 34 cents – depending on the district – per square meter and month. So I think these are not really the price drivers for the high rents that have been spoken of lately. Just a very short comment on thermal renovation – the Minister has already said that – which is gladly extended until 2016; this is really a success story. One point that is important to me is the promotion of multi-storey housing, because there is certainly also demand in the private sector. They have also promised us that the funding conditions will be discussed and re-examined. I think that this is important not only for environmental policy, but also in the economic field, a very essential measure, because it provides growth-enhancing impetus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e45082	Mrs Hellererer is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e45103	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The good news about the budget family and youth has already been said by the Federal Minister: There is no reduction in the family area. Expenditure on the family and youth sectors is rising to €6.57 billion in 2013. That's about €160.8 million more for families than it was in 2012. The focus is on childcare: With the Article-15a agreement on the extension of childcare, politics is also, and above all, based on the reality of life of the families. This offensive will create around 5,000 new care places per year, especially for under three years in 2013. This will increase the care rate for under three years from 19 to 28 percent by the end of 2014. Austria is thus approaching the EU's Barcelona target, which is 33 percent. For the three- to six-year-olds, the Barcelona target is already overcrowded, where we are 93.4 percent. Investments in quantity show success, now it is increasingly also about quality. The Federal Minister of Education is an important concern to develop the kindergartens through high standards to the important educational institutions they are already part of today. What's new? – New investments are being made in extending the opening hours. The promotion of cross-community cooperation is also new. New funding is also provided for day-parents, training courses and care offers. The investment programme for the extension of the childcare of Federal Minister Mitterlehner is an essential engine for the compatibility of family and profession. I would also like to see a lot of success in implementing family aid. My thanks also for the weekly allowance adjustment for self-employed women. The families are not saved! This is a statement that we have heard several times today, but we cannot say it often enough, ladies and gentlemen, because spending on families is the best investment in the future. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein]]
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e45149	Next speaker: Mr Wenninger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e45170	Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! I would like to comment briefly on the development objectives of economic promotion, particularly in the field of energy consumption and the increase in the share of renewable energy sources, on environmental policy. My colleague, Mr Becher, has already referred to the promotion of thermal rehabilitation. After the economic situation has left a third of the funding this year – the Minister has formulated it literally as a “sleep” resource – and the next year will again be provided with €100 million for thermal renovation, I would like to encourage it once again to include multi-story housing in the criteria and, on the other hand, to consider whether cities and communities could also be included, because there is a very high need for renovation in the area of public buildings and thus would not only have an ecological effect – greenhouse gas reduction – but also regional jobs could be created. The second point I would like to address, in which we will need the support of you, Minister, over the next few months, is the implementation of the objectives of the anti-atomic summit. As you know, Chancellor Werner Faymann has invited three summits together with ministers, environmental organisations and the economy – with the aim of making Austria completely free of nuclear power imports by 2015. In this respect, there is still a need for legislation on electricity labelling, nuclear power certificate and nuclear power-free seal. In order to achieve our goal, to be credible and not only to refrain from producing nuclear power, but also from importing nuclear power into Austria, I am looking for this matter in this context. Implementation of the legislative period together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e45213	Mrs Fürntrath-Moretti is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e45234	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! I very much welcome the fact that we have more than €6.5 billion for families in 2013 – despite the necessary consolidation measures. This means a lot more money for the families because families are important to us! The essential aspects have already been mentioned. I am particularly pleased about the increase in weekly payments. There was really an injustice. So far, entrepreneurs, self-employed women and farmers received €26.97 per day. This amount is now being increased, and injustice is being eliminated, because the female workers so far received an average of €41. Mr. Minister! For me a good budget, a good budget for the families – I thank you for your commitment!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e45264	Now comes Mr Mag. Kuzdas. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e45286	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It is no secret that, due to global turbulence, the Austrian economy is in a particularly difficult situation, facing a great challenge. In the future, it will be important to set growth impulses, improve the economic location, strengthen and ensure recovery. Especially a small open economy, such as Austria, is very sensitive to the changes in the global market, especially because 99.6 percent of Austrian companies are SMEs, which are very sensitive. In effect Objective 1 in the economy subdivided, the demand for business start-ups is particularly important. A package of measures under the heading ‘Impulses for Economic, Growth and Prosperity’ has therefore been decided within the framework of the last government clause in order to achieve this objective. A Young Entrepreneur's offensive with a Founder's Fund and a Business Angel Fund. The Founder's Fund will then provide the necessary capital if bank loans are not sufficiently granted. 15 million in the first year and 10 million in the next years, thus a total of 65 million €. The Business Angel Fund, in cooperation with the European Investment Fund and private investors, so-called Business Angels, invests 15 million in young, creative companies annually, brings know-how and provides networks to facilitate the start-up phase. The economic package also contains important reforms concerning the GmbH, the “GmbH light”. The share capital to be paid is reduced to 10 000, half must be paid in cash. The minimum royalties are reduced to €500 and the founding ad can be missed. This reduces entry barriers to self-employment, and an increase in the number of GmbHs is expected. This Laxenburger package also decided to facilitate the operation of plant law and to extend the threshold value regulation for the award of public contracts so that municipalities can quickly give money to the economy, award contracts. Finally, the Economic Package also adopted measures to improve the situation of the EPCs. In total, ladies and gentlemen, it is a necessary and proper package of measures to secure Austria's economic location. It is not up to the level of the budget – Mr Themessl is unfortunately not here – it is about taking the right measures, and that is what the Federal Government has done.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e45337	Now comes Mr. Ing. Gartlehner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e45358	Madam President. Estimated Minister of State! Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that we can be quite satisfied with the economic policy of our Ministry of Economic Affairs and the Minister. I would like to focus on research and economic promotion in particular today. Mr. Federal Minister, we are in the field of research, research activities in your department in the plan. You have already mentioned today that the budget cut will be covered, so to speak, by additions from the reserves and that the Council's research development plan can also be observed in your section. I think we have very good top officials in the research area in your house. I would like to stress this very competent people, and I would also like to say in this context that in recent weeks some people from the R&D scene have come to me and asked me to also articulate that the position of the Minister of Finance and its Secretary of State in Brussels, in the budget negotiations for the next few years, will reduce research expenditure and not cut agricultural expenditure, will find no friends in Brussels, and will find little understanding. Second point: AWS. The AWS is an important institution and very successful, I must say. The failures are 2 per cent, and it can also be said that 80 per cent of them are insured. So this is really a successful story. Of course, due to the requirements for new programmes – there has also been staff change – new content orientations will come. There's also a request: The Ministry of Finance is always a very restrictive partner because of the fear of failures. I do not think it is justified here, and there people in the AWS need our support in order to be able to act more offensively. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e45395	Next speaker: Mrs Hakel. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e45418	Madam President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, We have already heard a lot about growth impulses, economic location, investment and the like. Yesterday at the Culture chapter, we were told that a total of 20 million were made available to the Austrian film industry in 2010 to 2012 as part of the “Film Location Austria” funding model. Two questions, Mr Minister, where the answers are still pending, are whether these funds have already been exhausted and what funds are planned for 2013. Maybe you could answer that briefly. And then I have one more request: Perhaps you could talk to your Styrian colleague, the business councillor Buchmann, about what options and funding models there are when it comes to strengthening the film location of Styria, because, unfortunately, there is nothing going on until now. Maybe you could talk to him about it. However, I would also like to talk today about a group of entrepreneurs who are already a very large number, namely just over 300 000, who have not yet received much attention. These are the one-person companies. It is gratifying, and I really want to stress that last week the Federal Government presented a package for self-employed people. That is a good approach, once a first step in the right direction. But it is necessary to make some further corrections. I would just like to make a few points. On the point of sick leave: In my opinion, the 43 days are too late. I would suggest that the sickness benefit should be paid as early as the fourth day. 26,97 € is far too little, there would be an income-dependent calculation good. SMEs up to 25 employees, I think this number is too large, could be limited to five employees. Even in the area of social security or pension insurance, the longer period for repayment only removes the problem, but does not solve any problems. It is important to consider whether the calculation of the contributions may be completely reorganised. In the field of maternity protection, I find it good that the weekly fee is now increased from €27 to €50 and you are still insured during the mother protection, but no more needs to pay contributions. I would like to talk about a point that we should perhaps look at a little closer in the coming months, which is the creative quarters. In particular, creative entrepreneurs are an important engine for a smart economy and a central factor that Austria achieves the goals of the 2020 strategy. The more important it is to take the needs of this sector seriously and to support them. Creative entrepreneurs are constantly looking for suitable spaces that are based on their working reality. On the other hand, the urban administration and the real estate economy also have a high interest in the positive effects that creative quarters assume. The attractiveness of the neighborhoods increases, and positive effects for the arrants and creatives can be generated. Such creative quarters can then not only be found in Linz, where the tobacco factory Linz already exists, or in Vienna, but perhaps in the Styrian Zirbenland or the Ennstal. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I am convinced, Minister, that You are the right contact person for this topic, and I am looking forward to constructive cooperation.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e45482	Next speaker: Mr Riepl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e45504	Madam President. Federal Minister! Three and a half hours we've been discussing your place of business, the budget. I think there were very good approaches. It has become a bit clearer for one person or another, where the focus lies, and one of the priorities – I think you have said that too – is in the compatibility of work and family. I would like to make a few more comments. However, I do not want to deal with pre-school childcare or afternoon care in the context, but I would simply say that even more and more flexible working hours are being called in the economy itself, but on the other hand also workers can expect flexible working hours and a flexible employer in terms of family obligations. In many plants it works dazzlingly. There is an understanding of management when women or men have certain family obligations and therefore have to make their working life more flexible. But there are still many farms where there is a lack of understanding – family friendly operation is the keyword. You have, I believe, set some accents in the past. I am reminded by a woman who once told me that she is working in a drugstore chain, that she is supposed to train apprentices, to make the day bill, the colleague is sick, she is standing alone in the business for twelve hours, that is quite normal, and if she does not reach the sales goal, then she is threatened, she should look for something else. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] So there are still these moving attempts, and I can only say finally to this chapter from our side, from the sides of the Social Democrats: I think it is good to support you when it comes to putting the compatibility of work and family even more in the foreground of your work and ensuring that a better working environment is created for workers in our Republic. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e45547	There are no more words available to me. The discussions on these topics are thus completed. [[15:29:25]] UG 42: Agriculture, forestry and water management [[15:29:26]] UG 43: Environment
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e45577	We now come to the negotiations of the UG 42: Agriculture, forestry and water management, and UG 43: Environment. A joint debate is taking place on this matter. The first is Mr Riemer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e45607	Madam President. High house! [[The speaker presents a book entitled “On Bauer – defend yourself!” in front of the speaker’s desk.]] The issue of agriculture is quite a beautiful one. If I were today from the Farmers' Federation, I would actually say thank all the diligent farmers. I can't do that. As a liberal, I can only say that I apologise to all farmers for this budget. But the Minister of Agriculture, who of course has my deep respect, can't do anything else – and he can do that – because, please, to question 1 billion euros with the key from Brussels – yes, I have seen it, but you can do it to him. [[Call: Where is he? He's not there at all.]] [[Calls and calls between Green MEPs and FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: You talk to who is not present!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e45675	As you wish, honourable Member. I have just let the Minister of State have an understanding. Apparently he's in the house anyway. But I'd like to interrupt those two minutes until he's here. The sitting was suspended.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e45710	I'll start the interrupted session again. The Minister for Agriculture is now present. Mr Riemer has the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e45737	Once again my personal appreciation, but with 1 billion € in the back you want to drive from Brussels, the 179 million that the Federal Chancellor is supposed to save are actually few. I've been looking at this, a great balance. We have something to say over the past 15 years: at the time 240 000 businesses, today there are 176 000 – a great balance sheet, because you can't criticise in principle. That is, we have a farm or farm mortality of 12 pieces per day – a great performance! If I look at these key goals, I have to say: Deserved of all honour! I'm just taking one point out. There is nothing wrong with these guiding goals. There it says: “We are developing innovative concepts for vital rural regions to increase employment and value added and implement them in the partnership dialogue.” – Well, that really does not look good in practice at minus 51 million in the budget. There you can already see: What are the partnership relationships? I'm just taking the AMA controls as an example. I have looked at this in the South Styria because of the criticism of Mr Pirklhuber, which looks very miserable. It says inside that they are embarrassing that people do not, in principle, engage in partnership, but rather work at the expense of the farmers. The next point is that of the objectives of action. If we look at the objectives of action, then I am missing the visionary proposals, because what about the field of auxiliary workers? 55 percent of farmers are by-catch farmers, and after Mr. Gaßner and Mr. Auer, whom I appreciate very much, met and, as you can see, worked together, achieved great uniform values and everything within the meaning of our farmers, I must say quite frankly: Thank you. That looks pretty good. [[Abg. May. Gaßner: Have you ever looked at what came out?]] That is why it is also true that tomorrow, in the Council of State Farmers, the Federal Farmers' Association of Styria will most likely take place, of course, there, the 47 000 members represented. That's not what we do. We say this is a great story, but the peasantry in the Styria sees it a lot different, and there are already threats of withdrawal from the farmers' federal organizations. Please, welcome, come to the liberal farmers, look at us and we help and support you considerably differently! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] To the ad hoc farmers. No one asked: Where can you speculate? Please, if SPÖ and ÖVP are already meeting, I think: Let's do something about the chamber housing. Why do the utility farmers have to pay double chamber envelopes? Someone could say that in this crisis period, we're helping them. If the 1 000 € has, that's 50 €, which is in principle 600 € a year – only with this income. There you could really continue to work together in the interests of the farmers. The next story is of course the: I point to this book that our black brothers like to read it. [[The speaker points to the book before him]] In fact, they have said: We say that this budget is basically not a way out of the crisis for our rural population, but the question is whether we can afford farmers at all. That's what it looks like right now. – Please, that must not even be a topic! In this book there is a good quote: True farmers survived almost all the crises, even the Thirty Years War and the last World War. And I ask: Do they also survive this red-black government? Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e45789	Mr Eßl is speaking next. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e45829	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Economics, consolidation of the federal budget and the establishment of employment policy also apply to the agricultural budget. To the goal that we achieve a zero deficit in 2016, yes, we also confess to that, but if we want a comprehensive management, if we want farming family farms instead of agricultural industries, if we want food safety, if we want food security and sovereignty, if we want a habitat with quality of life and an economic area with quality of life, we also need to take public resources to pay the farmers their public service. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] These public services have already been the subject of transport today, and Mr Haberzettl has said that this is a matter of social security. The Commission's proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, – Yes, I say, it is also a social policy measure in the agricultural sector. I have now also looked at this sub-division 42, where there is a substantial sum in total of almost €2.1 billion, and it is not only about where the funds are going, but also about where they come from. I have taken out the two main measures, market regulation and rural development. With regard to market regulation measures, €778 million comes from the European Union and €7 million from the federal government. In rural development, € 540 million comes from the EU and € 230 million from the federal government. That means, in total, €1.55 billion comes from the federal government. There are also, of course, measures in agriculture and forestry, protection against natural hazards, wildlife and avalanche farming, protection of the water economy, which are financed nationally, but these figures, which I mentioned earlier, I believe, must already move us to think and act together, as we say that the money from Brussels is important. We have available €4 billion for the current period in rural development – bowl has negotiated this – and we also need the same sum for the next period. I know Mr. Berlakovich is fighting for it. I would also like to thank the Chancellor, who has made a clear commitment to fighting for it. The farmers also expect a result that is in line with that, and we must all together reject this proposal, which is currently on the table by Van Rompuy. [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. Nice pass.]] By the way, we need not be ashamed of the means. The comparison with Switzerland, for example, states: Switzerland has a total of €2,8375 billion per year for farmers, 58 000 farms, i.e. €49 000 per farm, and I believe that this money should also be presented as a target for farmers in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e45892	Mr Pirklhuber spoke next. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e45913	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! My previous speaker, Mr Eßl, rightly presented the high proportion of Community funds, namely EU funds under the agricultural budget. We must not forget that the budget, i.e. almost € 2 billion, actually comes from EU funds to more than 50 percent. This is always quite a thing, we say, underexposed side of the agricultural budget, because in Europe only this area is so high. We Greens wish for more common areas: social policy, financial policy in part, including tax policy. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Schickhofer.]] This would also be different if we were to contribute to greater harmonisation. That is why I warn against these considerations of renationalising agricultural policy. That's not a solution. - That's a point. [[It is in favour of Greens and ÖVP, as well as SPÖ Members.]] In this respect, I must point out that, in addition to these basic questions of agricultural policy, of course, the questions that really are being made nationally, namely: how is the administration - this is the agricultural market Austria -, how is the ministry set up, how does the Minister make public work, how does he finance his homepage, how does he bring the right information to farmers?, real core issues of their own implementation. These are tasks which, of course, are also covered by national funds in the budget. I have to say, Minister of State, that you have shown us a lot of things in recent months. This is true here, thank God, very intense discussion has been made. And the suspicion of corruption is not just in space, but there are hard facts that will give us up some more nuts. It also shows how you answer questions about the budget, written questions, which aim exactly in that direction that have already been discussed. I will have to ask you a question here again because I feel that you either did not understand it or do not want to answer it. And this question was: What is the amount of funding for agricultural market reports by the Agro-Media Verlagsgesellschaft mbH for the Ministry's websites in the budget year 2013? You remember. These were substantial amounts. You remember, Minister? Everyone shook the head. How is this possible, as much money for market reports that are available anyway? And what did you answer? It is interesting what the Minister would answer. What does he say? He says: A annual programme will be drawn up on the basis of the focus plan for the 2013 section. Depending on the subject, content and target group, various measures will be planned and completed during the year. - Quote. So he answered this question with incredible “precision. ” – No connection, Minister! There is no connection between the answer and the question. And that's exemplary. [[Congratulation with the Greens as well as with representatives of the FPÖ.]] I say to you that this is exemplary of how you are doing throughout the agricultural policy. In this way one cannot work wisely, so one cannot operate environmental policy for the Austrian farmers or for the Austrian society. That's not how it can be done. And now we're coming to From Rompuy: This is the square of the circle, where, from my point of view, the ÖVP really behaves so embarrassingly, because it totally disregards one: I can put myself in a corner and yell and suffocate and say: Awful, the Rompuy proposal, he's killing our farmers! – You did that in a press release. Well, I can also understand this with full concern – we have made our own press release on it – which would be the effect for Austrian agriculture. But the perfide about it is that you are sitting in the Council of Ministers and not me or anyone else from the Greens. [[Abg. Hornek: That's a luck!]] At the same time, as a net payer country, you have decided in the Council of Ministers that the budget at European level will save €100 billion – your party colleague Spindelegger is ahead of all. It is about saving EU funds, and at the same time do you want to get as much money as you have for rural development?- Oh, my God! Yeah, what's this milkmaid bill? That's where my colleague Bartenstein smiles. You have rightly said this today also critically that this is a rather difficult trapezoid. – This is impossible, ladies and gentlemen! I cannot call for sufficient environmental resources in the context of rural development and claim to fight for it, and in the Council of Ministers I agree with the radical reduction in the European budget. This is a counterproductive position, and thus you show that you have not understood at all how European policy works today. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich: But he understood!]] Only I would have understood, says the Minister. – Well, that’s his opinion, I wouldn’t judge it that way. But one thing I at least understood, that it is not without discussions. And I must, honestly, not to you, but also to colleagues from the government groups in Parliament, that they have not enabled us to discuss sufficiently or at all once this year in the Committee on Agriculture, on the actual proposals made by the Minister for the first pillar or the second pillar in the agricultural policy. No expert from the ministry was presented to us or made available at all to discuss these questions – not since January. Don't say anything else, Minister. Don't say anything else! That is precisely the truth. Everyone knows. You have personally printed some “Ghields ” again and again, but we have not received any precise analysis of how we sometimes have them Yes, I also need to ask? [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich: What is the meaning of “Ghafeln ”? I've informed you normally!]] [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich: What is the meaning of “Ghafeln ”?]] [[The speaker turns the microphone on the government bank towards the Federal Minister.]] [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich: What are you saying?]] [[Cheerfulness and condolences with Greens and BZÖ.]] There's the microphone. Tell me what you have to say! You're welcome. I would like to listen to you, because you did not say anything in the committee that would have been just kind of relevant. Tell us! Please! I'd like to give you two minutes, I'll give you the two minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e46048	Ladies and gentlemen, the Rules of Procedure are against this. You know that. [[New general hustle and bustle.]] You are speaking – and, of course, the Federal Minister can speak later. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e46073	I wanted to make this a little more lively. The Minister might have to say something ad hoc. But, well, I'm very excited about his speech. But now on the matter: If the Federal Chancellor – and this pleased me, I also applauded – will now be working for mountain farmers and also for organic farming in Austria at the end of November as part of the negotiations, I also say that the embassy has finally arrived at the Federal Chancellor. [[Abg. May. Gässner: This one has long arrived at the Federal Chancellor!]] –May have been here for a long time, says the colleague. But the tragedy is, the Minister of Agriculture has ordered a bio-introduction stop since 2009. Mr. Gaßner, you know that. Since 2009, no farming in Austria has been able to re-enter organic farming. [[Abg. Ing. Schultes: Not at all! Why are you lying?]] That's it! I'm not lying at all. If you lie to me, please come out and correct me. Since 2009, there has been an entry stop for new farms in organic farming. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the FPÖ.]] You know that exactly as President of the Chamber, colleague Schultes. And if someone's lying here, that's you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e46123	So, gentlemen! Both have the word “lying. ” Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e46139	Thank you, Madam President. Nevertheless, I refer to a written answer to the questions in the context of the budget consultation, where to read, since when there are no new bio resources. I can also make this document available to my colleague, Schultes. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Finally, to see, Mr Federal Minister, that we are very constructive, I would like to refer to our motion for a resolution of 5. July 2012 – which has been introduced, lies in the Committee, and I hope that it will be discussed once again – where we have made our demands on every aspect of this agricultural reform, both the first pillar and the second pillar. In particular, we have called for the Commission and the Council and Parliament to increase these funds by redeployment to €100 billion. This is possible within the agricultural budget, by transferring from the first to the second pillar, and clearly not by this disaster reduction programme that Van Rompuy has presented. And the Council is responsible for this programme, which must also be said. Now there is a chance, and we will fight Greens for the European Parliament to put in place, in the codecision, exactly what measures it calls for, that is to say, sufficient allocation of environmental support, sufficient resources for the development of rural areas. And there you are. That is why it is a sad game that you are performing here, a mourning dance that you are performing if you just stand here and lament, instead of making alliances with those regions and those countries in Europe that are for this expansion of rural development, such as all the German federal states. Why didn't you create alliances? We'll do it. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e46181	Next speaker: Mr Schopf. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e46202	Madam President. Minister! My dear! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to take part in this debate with two subjects: the first in the field of agricultural schools and the second in the Austrian Federal Forests. To the agricultural schools: There has already been a discussion, especially in the Committee, on the remuneration schemes in this area, in particular on the different supplements and award schemes. I think it would be necessary to hold the discussion even today, to discuss the issue of efficiency in general and, in this context, to consider whether it would be more reasonable to include the field of agricultural schools in the regular school system. Mr Minister, it would be important for us to discuss this issue in one of the next committees. It is generally gratifying that we have an increase in the budget in this area. Education is important. Investment in education is of major importance, not just the Increase from 2011 to 2012 because there is an increase of at least 2 percent in this area in 2013. Ladies and gentlemen! On the second topic, on the area of the Austrian Federal Forest: Here too, there has already been a discussion in the Committee, in particular a discussion on the rumors that always rule over the sale of different properties or larger properties, or on whether the Republic, and here as the owners of the ministers, will again demand a special dividend from the Austrian Federal Forests. And I say here, also on behalf of the entire staff, of all the colleagues in the Federal Forests, that we are glad that you, Mr Federal Minister, have very clearly positioned yourself in the last committee. You have clearly said in the Committee that no special dividends are required by the Federal Forests, and you have also clearly said that no real estate or property will be sold. And that's right and that's all right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e46245	Mr Huber is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e46266	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Federal Minister! Today’s press headlines: ‘Agricultural policy: Fall back in the 1980s!" This is absolutely correct in the case of the promotions, if this Rompuy proposal or the Commission's proposal are to be drawn up. Only today do we have a different situation. In 1980 the products produced by the farmer were at least 100 percent more expensive than today. 1980 got a farmer for the litre milk 7 Schilling, for the kilogram of grain 4 Schilling, and from that we are far away. But what is the state of the EIA agricultural policy when reading its own agricultural media? For example, the former EU Commissioner is now being criticized by the Lower Austrian Agricultural Council Pernkopf, later he was also head of the Eco-Social Forum, because Mr Fischler took over the opinion of the BZÖ and said: Cereals belong to the plate, belongs to agriculture and not to the tank. This is where Mr Pernkopf, who is also President of the Eco-Social Forum today, goes, by the way – there seems to be too little income – and complains that biofuels account for only 3 per cent and that this does not cost the food. I have to support Mr Franz Fischler very much and give him the right, because this price driver, which is now taking place with us since all these bioethanol plants have been in operation in Germany, has never been in place. Food has been massively expensive. And above all, what is a very serious problem, Mr. Federal Minister – you can already call here: That's not true! – is that farmers who keep animals today have to buy the cereals that feed, that these farms cannot redirect the massively increased prices to the product. On the other hand, you can take a brief look, Mr. Federal Minister! You've done good politics. They have made the AMA a state in the state. Since 2008, they have not managed to solve the alm digitization at last – but not to the disfavor of the farmers, but to the benefit of the farmers: Because the farmers can't do that! You have been in pension for a long time, Minister, and the farmers will still be paying back. And they won't forget it to you! But good, “Politics Berlakovich”, I do not want to say now, comparable to North Korea, but, Minister of State, everything I have told you for the last three years has occurred. Today we have the situation, Mr Federal Minister – and these are facts, those are figures from Statistics Austria – that in the last 15 years ÖVP agricultural policy must close 70 000 farms in Austria. Above all, it is small and smallest agricultural structures, precisely those farmers that we urgently need to produce healthy food, food without chemistry. But you were concerned about it, and this has been your policy to ruin these farms existentally and to promote the large agricultural industries so that you can sell quite a lot of chemicals and so that you have a good grip on these large farms with the AMA so that you have them right on the kandare. Federal Minister! Adenauer once said: You can change politics every day. – I’m looking for you in peace and without polemics: Let's stop making policy for large industrial enterprises! Let's stop that we still have businesses that get millions of promotions! Federal Minister! Let's move! Take up our requests, because people have paid enough, and nobody understands that today Raiffeisen still gets €3 million funding. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] No one understands that there are farms that get hundreds of thousands of euros in subsidies. And what is the consequence of your policy? – A bleeding of the rural area. The consequences and dangers that now threaten, what is ahead of us now, are an end to tourism. - Who will take care of the pastures? If such a Van Rompuy proposal, which I predicted to you three years ago, occurs, then thousands of businesses will die again and will have to lock up. They have taken the milk quota, where the peasantry has preached for years that this is the farmer's equity. You broke up this equity. Mr. Federal Minister, 14 days ago, Mr. State Secretary in Tyrol announced a great deal in the media that there would be no bonus reductions in the regional programme. – And now we know that there will certainly be 30 percent bonus cuts. Federal Minister! There you get very serious difficulties in East Tyrol, in weaker rural areas where there are still very, very many main occupations. But you only dispute, continue to represent raiffeisen, continue to represent the large businesses – and laugh. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Jakob Auer.]] Mr. Farmer's Bundesobmann would have to be ashamed. And for the Minutes – Madam President, I can also get a call for an order –: This has not been deserved by farmers who work 365 days a year and are then harassed by a Mr President of the Federal Republic of Germany! The ÖPUL programme, which can really be referred to as the core of the Austrian agricultural policy. Mr Federal Minister, look at the Court of Auditors report! What did you do? Balance once! You could have adapted the OPUL programme in Brussels every year. - Nothing! You've totally failed! And now stand and just lament and defend the old structures, that's too little. You can't forget one thing either. The colleague Bartenstein stood here this morning and praised the Van Rompuy proposal to heaven. – Yes, what kind of policy do you have? For our farmers, this is the biggest disaster ever to come. Mr. Federal Minister, let us stick to the principle of Adenauer, please: Now, let's move in, we'll change the layer right away! Let us make maximum limits on the promotions and see that we can keep the smaller farms in the main acquisition with a base amount – like fifty requests from me. Otherwise, Mr. Federal Minister The miners have a base amount, he says. [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich: They have a base amount, the miners!]] Mr Federal Minister, then accept my request! It is true, but we must look at the fact that the large businesses that receive hundreds of thousands of funding are being re-transmitted in order to preserve the existence of smaller businesses. The colleague has previously spoken of the Federal Forests. Federal Minister! Now we know that the Federal Forest, which is managed under your responsibility and in Russia, in which Ukraine has caused millions of damage, does not bring money back into the budget. Wouldn't it be reasonable to think that there are parts of that, selling forests of it to the adjacent farms? And one thing, Minister of State, I'm going to give you for the forthcoming Council negotiations: If you do not go here now and massively reduce our contribution in Brussels so that we can have the means to promote small agriculture nationally, then, Mr Federal Minister, there are damage to Austria that cannot be dealt with. Then Mr. Hörl will scream when in the Zillertal all the pastures are grown when tourism begins to suffer. Again: You've managed to have thousands of businesses closed in the last few years. Let's save these farms! For this reason, I now make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] No one understands that Poland, that various other countries are always carrying out their demands and that Austria is only kneeling and bubbling with the aim of a centralist European government in Brussels. Federal Minister! We've been watching today, but I'm looking for you now, without polemics, really in concern given the distress of the many thousands of small businesses that just feel betrayed by you: Think about it and finally make a policy with the brain and with the heart and with the mind of the house!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e46334	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e46389	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Schools. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e46410	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Estimated Minister of State! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen in the House! We are holding the debate on agriculture and the debate on the environment as a day-by-day point, so you are allowing me to comment on the environmental issues now. As Mr Pirklhuber has just returned, I would like to give him an answer in the field of organic farming. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Please!]] Of course, the number of organic farmers has increased by new colleagues in 2009, 2010, 2011 and 2012, and the size of the organic farming area has also increased. If you claim that there is a stop for organic farmers, ask the organic farmers who have come in again. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: No, a stop of the funding!]] That's it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr Pirklhuber goes to the Bureau to register again.]] – He roars and roars and roars, and there is nothing going on anyway. Ladies and gentlemen, now on the subject of the environment – unfortunately the red light already shines, my speaking time is set to only 2 minutes –: The issue of climate protection is important for us, and green jobs are important. When we look at the situation in water construction, we know that we have to use money there to work out consequences due to climate damage and at the same time to take care of it. The budget shows a change in this respect. There will be less money for water construction in the future, instead of 77 million, only 61 million, and there will be more money at the same time, because a special dosage will provide an additional 25 million to remedy the consequences of climate damage. That is, the reality shows us that prevention alone is no longer sufficient. We have to expect the damage, so serious is climate change. Another issue I wanted to address is the forthcoming change to the Waste Management Act. It's about green jobs, it's about managing our resources optimally. It is about ensuring that we have as little waste as possible, to avoid waste, to reuse, to recycle, to use it naturally and to remove the rest in order. If we keep this chain when we do it properly, we naturally save CO2, we create work, but it also moves a lot of money. And because of the recent evidence that the communities are among the payers, even though they are not provided as payers in the system, we need a certain amount of discussion on this issue, which needs to be addressed in the near future. I would like to point out that environmental policy is a very comprehensive policy and is involved in every situation of life. It is therefore also very sensitive to take action and work very well. People are affected by this, our future is affected, and every step is important and necessary. – That is why, Minister of State, thank you for the budget, for this presentation, and continue to be a success!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e46475	Mr Pirklhuber spoke on an actual correction. You are aware of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e46500	Madam President. Mr Schultes called me a liar from the bank and found it necessary to teach me. That's why I'm going to quote from the request...
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e46518	Mr President, first of all you have to reflect what exactly you want to criticize and actually correct. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e46538	Mr Schultes claimed that I was talking about a stop in organic farming. I have actually said that there is a funding stop and referred to the request response number 151, in which it is said that only in 2007, 2008 and 2009 new contracts for biomeasures could be established. [[Abg. Ing. Schultes: No, you didn't say! Let's ask for the Stenographical Protocol.]] – This is the answer of the Minister's question. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e46589	Mr Hagen has now come to the fore. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e46611	Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! Mr. Federal Minister, on the Alm, there’s ka Sind’, it’s said in a song and, I believe, in a proverb. But in the valley, when I look at the agricultural budget, there is a great sin. In the chapter on agriculture and forestry, there is a minimum of € 51.1 million, and if you see the problem that has already been raised today with the support from Brussels, which is vital for our farmers, especially in rural areas, in mountainous areas, on the alpine pastures, and if you look at how you just swallow and take everything here, then, I must say, I understand this wave of exit, which is announced in the Styria. Federal Minister! Steiric savings package, new tax regime at the federal level for the farmers in general, and if you use the support of the miners who really keep our landscape very beautiful so that tourism can also live well, then something goes wrong in this state of Austria, and for that, Mr. Federal Minister, you bear the responsibility very well! [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] I would also like to address the problematic situation of dairy farmers. If the farmer has to sell milk or dairy products below the cost of production, he cannot survive. That's all in the wrong direction. Here too, Mr Minister, you would be responsible for this, too. – At €0.89 there is milk, the price goes up to €1.09 depending on the product you choose. [[Abg. Eßl: What do they get for milk? What does the milk cost?]] I'm going to buy myself, you can believe this. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Huber.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In the environmental field, a dramatic minus can also be seen. What I can say positively is that the funding for thermal renovation will continue in 2013. I think that's reasonable. In particular, I would like to address a special area – as it is also about the environment – namely the nuclear exodus in Germany. It would be very important to me, Mr Minister, that you not only feel positive about Germany, that the nuclear exodus is there, or that it is actually decided, but it would be important for you to look around Austria. There are problems in Temel­n, Slovenia has major problems with nuclear power plants, and also in Switzerland nuclear power plants are being rebuilt, whose operating life is extended. That is why there are great resistances in my home country, Vorarlberg, and we need your support, Minister! I'd be glad if you could stand by us. It must be assumed, of course, that the electricity will become more expensive if these nuclear power plants no longer exist, so it is about our hydroelectric power plants being given the opportunity to expand. Here you are again faced with the problem – you are the Environment Ministers – that you have to act very strongly against this form of energy – that is, the Greens are acting against it, I do not know what you are doing, but I hope you will support these power plants. Since these hydroelectric power plants are largely owned by countries and most of these countries are governed by black country heads, I would like you to also align them with the fact that no rags are being used in the electricity prices, because I think the Austrians have already been punished enough, they must already purchase numerous increases, including in the electricity price, in the energy price. I think we can work together to find good solutions with a reasonable policy that really benefits citizens. You'll be sure of our support.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e46665	Now Mr. Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e46687	Madam President. High house! My remarks refer to the chapter on agriculture and forestry, water management. This budget is the continuation of the consolidation path. The Ministry of Life also contributes to the renovation of the state budget. At the same time, it has been possible to cover the main agricultural programmes financially. It was very hard to negotiate with the Minister of Finance, but I thank Maria Fekter for the joint success of financing the programmes while at the same time creating opportunities for investment and generating growth. Agriculture and forestry is undoubtedly the backbone in the economic and social sense of rural areas. The objective is clear: that we have a wide-ranging agricultural agriculture, that we have a agriculture that covers a wide variety of functions. All those who complain about structural change deny the facts. Yes, it is true that agricultural holdings will stop, that is true, but yet our agricultural policy succeeds in maintaining a rural family structure. Just look at the numbers in comparison! Agricultural area per holding: In Austria, a farm has about 19.3 hectares of agricultural land; in Germany 45 hectares, two and a half times as much; in the Czech Republic 89 hectares, four and a half times as much. Number of dairy cows per holding: Milk cows per animal husband in Austria 10.5 pieces; in Germany 40 pieces, three and a half times as much; in the Czech Republic 74 pieces; in Cyprus 94 pieces; in Denmark 100 pieces. These are x-fold size structures. Pig holdings per animal owner: 71 pigs in Austria; 340 in Germany; 1 340 in the Netherlands; 1 900 in Denmark. Do you see the size differences? It succeeds in farming family farms – no matter what you say, look at the Statis- [[Intrusion of the Abg. Huber.]] Check this out, then you'll see! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] They make themselves here and say something. Look Turn on the numbers and don't tell fairy tales here! These are the figures of Statistics Austria, and they show that despite extreme market conditions, we are able to maintain farmed family farms in the alpine area and thus ensure the multifunctionality of the domestic agriculture and forestry by producing high-quality foods that are manageable. In a preface it has been mentioned: A few decades ago, people spent 50 percent of their income on food, today it is about 12 percent. This means that people have to spend less money on food, because agriculture is powerful and produces high-quality, low-quality, low-quality foods. But at the same time – and they do so – farmers have to provide environmental services and maintain the landscape. Tourism in Austria is being conjured over and over again. If the farmers were not to maintain the landscape not only on the mountain but also on the flat land, tourism would not have these prospects. Farmers are also responsible for rural settlement and the conservation of rural infrastructure, as well as for protection measures. Protective forest conservation means protection against natural hazards. The continued management of extremes is also a contribution to this. That is to say, the credo of the Austrian agricultural policy is to preserve farmers in their multifunctionality. We can finance the programmes we have set up for this. That was always the big pressure. There are two major areas: on the one hand, direct payments for farmers. That's the safety net. If prices are very different, rise once and then fall again, are marked by high volatility, there are direct payments as a safety net. We can finance that. The second area covers rural development. We also make available the means to trigger every euro from Brussels. Although we have saved rural development, we can very well finance the programmes through reserves. This means that we have organic farming and that rural development through the environmental and mining programme contributes to the production of high-quality foods, the maintenance of the countryside, and the eco-lohning of farmers for environmental services. That's right and that's possible for society. Through the Leader programme, rural sectors work together with agriculture, trade, trade and industry and thus achieve a job effect. The WIFO has examined this and also confirms the positive effects. Mother cow and dairy cow premiums are also anchored, and AIK investment is also provided. Agricultural education – financed. Another point that can also be found in this chapter is the protection against natural hazards. The top goal is to make Austria a lot safer. People are to be protected from avalanches, from walls, from floods, and they are also to be protected from possessions and property. What people do Over time, do not suddenly disappear through a flood. That is why we have set up additional resources to the regular means of protecting against natural hazards due to the disasters of this year in Styria, in East Tyrol, but also now in Carinthia. In other words, there is much more means of protecting against natural hazards than was the case in the past. And then we act. We create about 1 900 projects each year as part of flood protection. In the last four years, 8,000 projects have been implemented in Austria. This means adding value to the economy in rural areas, jobs and making Austria safer and protecting Austria. And we're continuing this program. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] For a given reason, because you have addressed this and it is definitely up-to-date: We are now entering the crucial phase in the common agricultural policy, but the multiannual financial framework of the European Union budget is still in place. We have developed an Austrian position in the Federal Government, which is: The priorities of our negotiations are first of all rural development and second of the Austrian rebate. Rural development is the heart of the Austrian agricultural policy, which we have already mentioned. We are being praised for our environmental and mining programme throughout Europe. There has been a proposal from the European Commission on the budget, according to which all sectors receive more money, only the agricultural sector loses 10 percent, as the only area. We have said that further cuts in the agricultural sector cannot be accepted, because we can no longer continue these programmes. You can still conjure organic farming if we don't have the money for it, then we can't give the organic farmers any perspective. That is why we need the financial resources. EU Council President Van Rompuy has done something that we consider totally unacceptable, namely: There are further cuts in the budget, and rural development will be reduced once again. This means 30 percent less funding in rural development for Austria. This is fatal for the farmers. Then we are not talking about a farmer's death, but about leaving the farms on a large scale – and this must now be said before the negotiations – and rural areas are suffering, because rural development includes the projects of village renewal, nature conservation projects, species conservation projects, projects for biodiversity, from the Kaiser Adler to the wild cat, the trap protection project, projects to promote tourism, the small industry and the leader programme, and goes all the way to rural culture. Just think of the Klimt Centre on the Attersee – built from rural development resources. It has always been the approach of this rural development: that farmers benefit from it, but that the whole rural area remains vital. That is why we say: Proposal unacceptable! This is also the position of the Austrian Federal Government. We do not understand that in our ministries we save on administration and the European Union increases the funds by 10 percent and does not save anything there. As a net payer, Austria can therefore very well demand that the European Union save on such things. We need a sustainable Europe, which the EU itself says, and to reduce sustainability and, at the same time, the funding for rural areas, which is the completely wrong way. We need a perspective towards ecologizing agriculture in Europe. This is the way Austria is going, and we will continue to do so. That's what we're working for. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e46815	The next item is Mrs Schönpass. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e46836	Madam President. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) The 2013 budget for agriculture and forestry is in the light of the continuation of the consolidation measures for the federal budget. The agriculture and forestry sector comprises three major global budgets with a disbursement volume of approximately €2 billion. The three pillars of the mining programme, the environmental programme and the investment offensive are to be supplemented by a regional offensive for small and medium-sized enterprises throughout the rural area and to strengthen the communities. Interesting is the development of reserves in recent years. There is no saving pressure here. Since 2009, deposits have increased by 220 percent. The amount of reserves thus amounts to more than 10 percent of the total budget estimated for this chapter and is €236.5 million at the end of 2011. These funds will, according to you, Mr Minister, be mainly needed in order not to leave any money in Brussels. That is gratifying, but I ask you, Minister, that the transfers from the past no longer take place. I'm sure you'll tell us all the time. In addition, in the CAP reform, I see quite a chance, namely the chance that the funding will be distributed more fairly and even more so than the entire population of rural areas and not primarily the large farms, say: the industry.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e46870	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Hofer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e46891	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Now I am not a farmer and therefore probably not called to speak on this subject. But I would like to say something that I notice and perhaps many other people also notice: Would it not have been time to go back a step further and consider whether this dependence on agriculture on support in recent decades was really the right step? [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In the end, the farmer will no longer receive a fair price for his good products and will then be made dependent on politics through the funding policy. This is a development that we have not only in Austria, but all over the world. It would be nice to put this development back on reasonable track at some point, so that the farmer actually receives a fair price for what he produces. [[Abg. May. Schickhofer: How do you want to do this? That's an exciting question!]] How do you want to do that? There is no cost-effectiveness in this area. I think it deserves others very well in the field of food production. If you look at what the farmer gets, it's often very, very thin. The off-off sales work because this intermediate area is disabled here. I think we are very distorted by subsidies and subsidized means of transport. When I think about how cheap the Kiwi is offered in domestic supermarket chains and that at the same time good domestic apples are depleting on the meadows, you can see that a distorting subsidy policy is often well meant, but probably brings with it a wrong steering effect. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The home environment – and this is my real topic – is in a good condition from my point of view. We have a high water quality, clean air, we also have healthy soils in most areas. We have a very, very high environmental awareness in the population. We are, for example, – I believe, not world champions, but European champions in the collection of waste and in the waste race. And some time ago – and I noticed this during the preparation of the debate – we also offered an eco-premium for old vehicles; It was called “srapping premium” unloving. You know that old vehicles emit much, much more pollutants than modern vehicles do. A vehicle in the 1970s, for example, has emitted a hundred times more pollutants than a new vehicle does. I would be interested – and perhaps this question may be answered by you, Mr. Federal Minister, or also by experts from your home –: What is actually the balance of this measure? We have used financial resources. 1 500 € you have received a scrapping premium – 750 € of which have been paid by the public authorities, the remaining 750 € from the car dealer, from those companies that scrap these vehicles, and then a substantial part from the importer. So has this actually been expected for the environment? - This question is open to me. Perhaps there is someone who can answer this question. Because only then could one decide whether such an action is really useful and could perhaps even be repeated. How much CO2, NOx, fine dust could we save? – Fine dust, for example, because new diesel vehicles can use very different filter technologies. What is still striking is that, even in connection with this scrapping premium, very many vehicles disappear in Austria. Some 280 000 old vehicles are attacked in Austria each year, which should be scrapped. Only 80 000 of these are actually scrapped. And many of the remaining 200,000 countries in Africa, many in former Eastern Bloc States, and we are losing valuable raw materials because 85 percent of raw materials or old materials can be reused by a car. I believe that we really need to ensure that these raw materials continue to be available to us. I give everyone a cheap vehicle, but I think it makes little sense to transport scrapped vehicles to Africa. They're in use there for some time, but there's no working waste treatment there, and then these vehicles are going there. What I would also like to stress is that from my point of view – and perhaps many see it differently – we have to make a change in the Federal Ministry Act, perhaps in the next legislative period. It was also so in our older party programmes that agriculture and the environment have always been dealt with in a chapter. But I think the development shows us that today energy and the environment are much closer to each other and it would be useful to link these two major areas together in a new Federal Ministerial Act, because it cannot be said that a minister responsible for the environment is not at all responsible for the eco electricity law and, in reality, has no way of influencing the design of this eco electricity law from the first hand. At the end, Minister of State, another request from me. As part of the promotion of rehabilitation, we are left with some money this year. We're not going to be able to use everything. It is quite different when it comes to promoting investment in photovoltaics. There it is that this money has been exhausted within a few minutes. For me, this is a sign that funding in this area is actually too high that it is being promoted too high per kilowatt peak. It would be more helpful for everyone to go down here with the promotion and with less funding amounts per kilowatt peak to promote more plants. This helps more people in this country who want photovoltaics on the roof, and it also helps the domestic economy that can bring more plants than before to the man and the woman. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e46942	Mr Grillitsch has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e46963	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Hofer, I have the same wish as you, namely that farmers receive the prizes they need in order to be able to manage their farms in the future. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Doppler.]] Unfortunately, this has not been a reality in recent years, because the world market level has developed through WTO negotiations in such a way that it was necessary to develop these programmes in order to maintain exactly this rural structure in Austria, which everyone wants – this comprehensible, transparent structure in which you know who is producing as where, and in which we are not talking about industrialized agriculture, but about this comprehensible eco-social agriculture, if you want it, and that is what we want to secure for the future. That is why it is also important for the rural families who want to do so. In fact, it would be the greatest motivation to get what they need for the product. But it was important to break it off with programs. And now it is very important that we have this national budget. Thank you, Federal Minister, for having succeeded in hard negotiations with the Minister for Finance. It will be extremely important for us not only to talk about what we are going to do for the farmers, but also that the Federal Chancellor should follow his words as well, when it comes to rejecting Mr Van Rompuy's proposal accordingly. And Austria has to reject it, because it cannot be a possible 30 percent reduction for the mining industry, for the organic farmers and for rural areas with its many projects as a whole. That would be unbearable for Austria! This would be unbearable for farmers, but also for consumers! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Gaßner.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I have a request, Mr Gaßner. I am very glad that this agreement on the issue of unit values has finally been reached. But I also say quite openly: We don't always use the farmers as a political gameball! This will be necessary so that farmers can continue to do what they want in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e47023	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Brunner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e47045	Madam President. Minister for Agriculture! Ladies and gentlemen, seers and seers! I will now devote myself to the environmental budget. It is a very, very small budget, but I think the bigger and the more urgent the need for discussion on this issue is. I confess – and this is nice – that we have a very good environmental situation in Austria. Yes, we have a high environmental awareness in Austria. But we also have environmental problems, specifically in Austria, as regards, for example, the air quality, but also especially where our global responsibility is, for example, climate protection. Austria is EU climate protection light. It has also been mentioned in recent days about various crises and how well Austria did not lie. But a crisis – and I believe that is the essential thing that we also need to prepare for – is climate change. Climate change and resource scarcity are among the greatest challenges of our century. That's what we need to face. Austria is not as good, either in international comparison or in EU comparison. Austria is climate protection light! And what does this government do? – It reduces the environmental budget by more than a third! The environmental budget is cut by more than a third compared with the last few years! It is obvious that this has nothing to do with sustainable policy. In my opinion, it is clear that no one in this government really has a great interest in environmental policy. We don't have an Environment Ministry, we don't have our own Environment Minister, we don't have an environmental policy, and we hardly have an environmental budget that could make real environmental policy. I've already mentioned it, Austria is a climate protection lock. We should have saved minus 13 percent of our CO2 emissions. In fact, we're plus 9 percent. This is embarrassing internationally and, as has been said, does not at all meet the responsibility we have in this area. Austria and environmental policy. A number of ÖVP Environment Ministers have concentrated mainly on buying us free from international obligations. That is why millions of taxpayers have been used in recent years to buy CO2 certificates. Nothing else has been done to exempt itself from obligations, and no measures have been taken in Austria. At the end of this year, the Kyoto period is running out, so the obligation to buy free is no longer necessary. And what happens in the budget? What are you doing? They do not at all give up on these means. The environmental problem has always been that the entire environmental budget was blocked by this purchasing programme for CO2 certificates, money that we could have used much better for environmental protection measures, for the expansion of renewable energy in Austria. Now, at the end of the Kyoto period, this money would be free – and you will miss it! I do not at all believe that this money should not be left in the environmental budget, in order to be able to at last benefit from the possibility of active environmental policy in Austria. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This is about €350 million, which we could and should use very well in Austria for environmental protection measures. I think we need a new start in Austrian environmental policy, and now with the end of the Kyoto period, you will have the opportunity to redesign climate policy, environmental policy in Austria and, with the budget, which would now be free to make real environmental protection measures in Austria. But you're not doing anything! [[Abg. Rädler: By the way, the budget is more!]] The only thing you do is buy yourself free, and if we don't have to do that any more, then we lean back and continue as before. But using this money to actively do something, it doesn't happen. What is further, however, is that the environmental programmes, the support programmes we have, as well as the climate and energy funds, such as domestic environmental support, are also cut short. These two programmes will be reduced by €50 million, and this will also have a concrete impact on the commitment framework in these two programmes. Minister, I don't understand. In the course of the budgetary negotiations, I asked you a question concerning the fiscal effects of these funding programmes, and you wrote here among other things: In addition to accounting for a significant job impact of more than 20 000 in 2011 for environmental promotion in the country including the Rehabilitation Plan, it also results in fiscal net effects exceeding the cost of funding several times. The Wifo has also confirmed: Every euro that the State invests in these funding programmes, each funding euro returns six times to the government budget. And I ask you: Who of you would not make an investment where you invest a euro and get six euros back? The Minister for Finance and the Minister for the Environment rejects such an investment! I think that if you already care about the environment, you should at least continue these measures in the financial interests of the Republic. Or maybe you can explain this answer even more to me why you do not take such a measure. As I said, you do not have 350 million € by reducing these funding programmes, which bring us forward to the environment and which are more than expected for the state. Tell us why you're not! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I have found a target in your budget, which I believe you will achieve; I think it is a bit strange. You are constantly talking about green jobs, green jobs, but as a success indicator, you have a target of minus 7 300 jobs in your budget. – Yes, with this budget I believe you will achieve the minus, but I think it’s a bit strange if you advertise for green jobs, but then formulate as a goal that you really want less. I also find it strange that you switch ads, cut the budget as long as there are still thousands of people who are trying to promote photovoltaics year after year, but are always rejected. As said, this budget shows that zero environmental policy is made by you that zero will is available to really shape. I am in favour of a restart, a complete recast of Austrian environmental policy, and we urgently need an independent, strong and committed Ministry of the Environment. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e47096	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Schickhofer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e47120	Mr. Federal Minister! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! We Socialists and Socialists are working together with you, also with the French President Hollande, to ensure that farmers and rural development continue to be well equipped with resources. [[Oh-Rufe at ÖVP and FPÖ]] But I would nevertheless like to lead to a fair argument, and I believe that it needs it, also replicating on Mr Bartenstein. If we want more impetus for growth and employment at European level, if we want more funding for research and innovation at European level, more commitment to regional development and at the same time leave rural development as before, we need a higher budget at European level. I am absolutely with you that we must do everything we can to make the Brussels bureaucracy more efficient, which is a first goal. However, we will not be able to invest much more in research, innovation and employment and to have a lot of resources available for rural areas. That is why, I believe, we need one, and we have already achieved much, namely the overall financial transaction tax for the European Union as a new source of revenue. It is only in this way that we can create stronger incentives for employment, maintain rural funds and at the same time do not have to make higher contributions to the European Union. But this primary revenue on the financial transaction tax needs it, otherwise our argumentation is illogical. And we need a fairer distribution, more fairer distribution effects on income and wealth in the resources available. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e47163	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Widmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e47184	Madam President. High house! This speech by Mr Schickhofer from SPÖ was really significant now. It follows directly from the speech by Mr Pirklhuber of the Greens. So the united left in Europe has now explained to us how local policy works, research policy, regional policy: In addition, it is a matter for the Commission and the Council of Ministers to take a decision on this matter into account. These are the facts, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ and of the Greens! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] It won't work like that! On the contrary, we must ensure that more remains in Austria again, then we can invest more here too. That's the right way, dear colleague Schickhofer of the SPÖ. But now to the environmental budget. – Mr Minister, I suspect that you have a single post that has really increased: This is the settlement water economy, there is €6 million more. That's good, that's important. But if you don't, the budget's gonna rip you out. You have a third less in the budget than last year. They've lost about 1 billion 350 million. You currently stand at 658 million with your budget, which is a third less. I wonder how you can achieve your objectives, the essential things that are there in the environmental field: Reduce greenhouse gases and make Austria energy self-sufficient, want to be rich. It simply won't work with these means, it can't work. And the funds are gone because the Kyoto period has run out or run out. You save 202 million. The flexible reserve of 92.5 million, which also serves to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, is also gone. And then you'll save already. They save at the KLI.EN, at the Climate and Energy Fund, on projects here in Austria, 24.3 million. You save on the UFI, on environmental promotion in the country, 25.1 million, and you save 7.2 million € in sustainable nature and environmental protection. So you save wherever we need the money here in the region – in the sense of the SPÖ, that's what you always say. They speak quite well, but the question is how to implement it. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] There is a lack of money, and I would call on the government to make the money available, because otherwise the objective of reducing greenhouse gases and expanding renewable energy will not be achieved. Then the word “energy autarchy” really remains only a keyword in the government program, but will never be filled with life. They are also talking about strengthening the Green Jobs. We have looked at this once – already in committee, you know, Mr Minister – which is what these Green jobs are, how they are defined. It's a IHS study on the table that tells us: These are also sellers who sell organic products – which is basically nothing bad – and these are people who work in the waste management sector who work in the energy sector – even worse. But are these the green jobs we want? – High-quality Green jobs, where new environmental technologies, energy technologies really create highly-doped jobs, are only 6 percent available, according to this IHS study. So we have to go in this direction, and there we are also on another important issue, the thermal reorganisation – I know this concerns the Minister of Economic Affairs, but you are also involved – I think: Once we've cleared the pot half this year, the model can't be quite right; then you have to ask yourself: If you need to re-adjust in the promotion, you increasingly rely on energy contracting and thus support that people have almost no cost at all, or do you really have to apply for it professionally, without having your counterfeit on the poster? – That would be the right way, but nothing seems to happen either. That's just saying you can't do anything, the money won't be picked up – but that, Minister, is not an active environmental policy as we want it to be. The same applies to district heating and cold pipelines. This is an important topic for creating decentralised units to expand the heat and cooling line. For this there is a law that provides up to €60 million per year. However, in 2013 only € 15.5 million is foreseen. And you know exactly that there are very great potentials that the economy wants to do so, but the funding rates, as they are currently, do not count on the economy. [[Interference of Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich.]] . I know that this is not your budget, but you could feel responsible for it in the sense of overall environmental protection and take appropriate initiatives in the government, because you sit with my colleague Mitterlehner in the government, he is, I think, also a member of your party – so a phone call could suffice to put something on your feet. Photovoltaics has been addressed: What is it for a photovoltaic plant promotion for small plants over the KLI.EN, which was used sometime in April at 13 minutes after midnight? Either the funding rates are too high, as has already been said, then you can correct them down. However, I believe that tens of thousands of people in Austria would make photovoltaics if there was a little incentive, but it is not present. Another important issue – and it will never be discussed at all – is the construction of electricity grids in Austria. We want renewable energy, we build the wind farms – Parndorfer Platte – the hydropower, we have pumped storage power plants in the mountains, in the Tauern, everywhere, but what we do not have is the power line there. If you know that in a few years the electricity produced in Lower Austria, in the Burgenland – Parndorfer Platte – already exceeds the triple of what you can consume in the region, then you will have to extract this wind current, then you will also need power lines for it. And you'll have to do that with the people there. One must tell the truth, be honest and say: Dear friends, if we want renewable energy, we also need strong power lines. [[Abg. May. Brunner: first of all know what you really need!]] This is also a topic in Salzburg, you know. There I expect to be informed by the government, what is planned here, and also a study of which networks we need, an information to the public, because then we can also make some progress with the citizens. The topic of energy research is broken in many areas, but there are delicate approaches. For example, an interesting project has been funded by KLI.EN under the leadership of the Ochsner heat pumps, a very good project, you will know. This is about using waste water – and we have this all over Austria: small, medium-sized, larger treatment plants that have a huge potential for heat. This study shows that in Austria it is realistic to supply 12 percent of households with waste water plants. That's a huge potential, but it's almost nothing. This project, together with the BOKU, with the Energy Agency and also with Wienstrom, is actually an example. What I'd expect now – and there are other countries like Switzerland, Germany, or other countries in Scandinavia much further – is that one is now starting to implement it professionally; that one makes a potential analysis where the sense is where there is heat potential in wastewater and where, in addition to that, a larger heat consumer or cooling customer – one can do both with it – is, and that once puts on its feet. Mr. Minister, do this! Make You have a potential analysis for Austria to find out where you can use this great potential accordingly! That would be a good approach, I think. Finally, a sentence on nuclear policy: I am really excited, Minister, how you will move forward nuclear policy now. You have a five-party application in your back, you can take legal steps, you can make political pressure, you can ask for information, you can talk anywhere – but please do something at last! The time of the papers must be over. I promise you today: We will be the lawyer of the affected people, and in no more than three months I will ask for the first time what you have already implemented.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e47258	The President of the Council is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e47279	Madam President. Federal Minister! Our rural agriculture is the basis for quality food, well-kept cultural landscape, large-scale settlement and quality of life in our beautiful home. There will be great benefits for society, and sufficient compensation will have to be made available in the future. Joint action at national and international level will be needed. Due to the geographical situation, many family farms in Austria have production disadvantages over agriculture in other countries. Let us think, for example, of the many mountain areas and the less favoured regions. In the future, it will also be necessary to establish a framework for farmers' families to manage their operations. This applies equally to full-time, part-time and part-time enterprises. It is also about non-agricultural jobs at reasonable distance. Many of the co-employed farmers are commuters, so I am clearly speaking out for improvements at the Pendler Pauschale. The ÖAAB has developed a very good forward-looking model for this. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Goods are the lifeline of rural areas. Those who have no modern access leave permanently. This goes far beyond the agricultural area. The Federal Government, the Länder and the European Union are taking a lot of money to develop rural areas, for example under the LEADER programme, which supports development in all areas, not only in agriculture. Personally, I am the chairman of the LEADER region of Strudengau, and I can only say for the 24 Upper Austrian LEADER regions that these funds and these funds, in addition to agriculture, are used mainly for projects in areas such as energy, tourism, education, culture, the environment and social matters. The agricultural budget also includes protection against natural hazards. The employees in the Wildbach and avalanche plantation, in the forestry service and in protective water construction do excellent work. Forest and forestry are a key income factor for rural families. We need a realistic look forward in agriculture and forestry. The political debate is often very static and with a look back. For the benefit of our homeland, farmers in our country are much further in their action, namely forwards, towards the future. The budget and the agricultural policy defined by the Federal Government support them as much as possible.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e47320	Next speaker: Mr Doppler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e47341	Madam President. Minister! High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Finance Framework Act 2013 to 2016, Federal Finance Act 2013 – the new budget is now based on a guidance and impact targets. The budget for agriculture, forestry and water management is as follows: secure sustainable production and produce high-quality food. - So far, so good. With regard to the objectives of action, ladies and gentlemen, it says: “Strengthening the protection of the population and habitats from the natural hazards of floods, avalanches, walls, rock strike and slope slips.” This is a beautiful coat for a budget structure, just what does it look like in reality, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen? – In reality, it doesn't look so rosy. The Minister of Finance has told us in her budget speech that expenditure on agriculture, forestry and water management will fall slightly in 2013 compared to 2012 and will amount to around €2.1 billion. This means that the agricultural sector is financing rural areas in a sustainable way and ensuring the comprehensive supply of local products to the population. I'm asking you, my dear friends. Ladies and gentlemen: How can this be done if up to twelve farmers cease daily, especially mining farms, no longer produce accordingly and can no longer guarantee protection? It looks even more sad for our farmers on the part of our Nobel Peace Prizewinner EU. If what these reigns lead in the shields is to be implemented – not only in terms of our water but also in terms of compensation payments – then up to 70,000 farmers are in danger of 50 percent of our farms being locked up – and that cannot be the objective of Austria, ladies and gentlemen! [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Jakob Auer.]] This is not supported by us liberals. We say to our farmers: We are proud of you! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e47399	Mrs Binder-Maier is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e47427	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Rural area, rural development – provided for in the 2013 budget, €770 million are EU funds and also federal funds. I think this sum can be seen. Despite all this, the damocles sword floats over this sum. We hear ongoing reports from the EU that the funds are being reduced. Mr Federal Minister, there will be a great deal of effort to avert this and ensure that rural areas continue to receive the support they need, the financial resources they need. On the objectives of action, ladies and gentlemen: Objective 4 states that the strengthening of equal opportunities between women and men needs particular consideration. What is the rural area, ladies and gentlemen? – The rural area comprises the whole of the people living in the countryside, the diversity of the regions and, of course, the rural farms, the agricultural areas, production areas and the open habitats. In a magazine on rural development, I read the following paragraph: “The farmers will make the future of Austrian agriculture and rural areas decisive. Not only because their innovative strength ( ) is indispensable, but because they know that the quality of life for the () enterprises and for rural areas’ is an important factor. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gartelgruber.]] Yes, ladies and gentlemen, it is important that gender barriers are reduced! I point to a great project from the Pongau and Lungau with four different modules: Mentoring in order to accompany women, motivation training to inspire active women in rural areas, the digital world and – as well as political work must be fun and joy – the “tchander cabaret”, an exciting production. The aim of this programme is to identify new perspectives and to make equality visible as a need for democracy policy and of course. And I also refer to a meeting of the Mining Institute next year. The title of a lecture is: They (the women) know that they have to go to the world – how women create diversity in the countryside. Let us work for women, and let us go a little further in rural areas!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e47492	Mr Linder is next spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e47513	Madam President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! There are two issues that affect me and which I would like to address to you today, Minister. One is an environmental issue: the old-age recovery contributions. They have told us in the Committee that the old-age recovery contributions are included in the proper budget for rehabilitation. Mr Minister, for me it is already clear why we are almost being harassed as operators of landfills in associations with the most massive controls. – To get money for the state! For example, it is in the community, in the association, as an operator of a large landfill that one has tried to raise the paths used when pouring, when building a garbage dump, so that one can drive in with the garbage truck as the amount due to old loads. We had to pay more than € 2 million at the time. Through real tough struggle, with defenses, with advice, we have been able to defend ourselves there. Something about which mayors complain about me over and over again is the fact that for recycling materials used in road construction, for which there are no opinions, old-age recovery contributions are also collected. These are normal asphalt break materials today. I believe, Minister, that it cannot be possible for the communities – and, in the course of the course, on the waste dumps – to be burdened by the citizens, just so that we can clean up the budget. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Checks are important, but they should be done with measure and aim and not go in the direction of trying to criminalise everything and ask the communities to check out. The second issue is protection of water. They have said very proudly today, for what has been shortened in the field of water protection, we have set up an emergency pot. On the one hand, you are very proud – this has also become known due to a request: If the damage exceeds € 250 000, 50 percent of the federal government and 40 percent take over the countries; that is, the injured person needs only 10 percent to pay. On the other hand, these €25 million are not estimated in the emergency pot, but come from the Ministry of Finance. I believe, Minister, that it can't be that we cut down funds on the one hand – and the communities feel it outside. I say it again and again: We built a stream. At the first dam, we have received 65 percent of funding from the federal government and now only more than 50 percent. That's 15 percent for a 1.4 million € project. It can't be that one withdraws here, leans back, and says: We still have the disaster fund we are dealing with. Now, for us in the communities, the expensive construction sections, the remote sections that cost a lot of money, and I think that the federal government has the same obligation to pay, to finance and not simply to reduce the contributions. You say we still have money for equal numbers of projects, only you hide that you give less. You should take a loan to an ÖVP colleague who has spoken here today, to Mr Einwallner, who said: We stand for earlier investments instead of later repairs. – I believe that we should do so; we should allocate sufficient funds with appropriate funding for the water protection projects in order to protect the citizens, and not say afterwards: Well, if you're done, you'll get a little more money from me.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e47553	Mr Hornek is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e47574	Madam President. Highly esteemed Minister of State! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! This budget debate on the environment gives rise to an overall view of environmental issues over the last few years, to decades, where we originally stood, where we stand today and what opportunities there are. Dear ladies and gentlemen! We had to collect many experiences. I can only recall one of my previous speakers who referred to the old-age recovery measures, the Mitterendorfer Senke, where we Austrians had to invest a lot of money in order to solve these problems again. And these experiences – in the wastewater sector, in the field of waste burning and similar areas – are very valuable experiences, and we can be proud of what we have achieved together. The values that we can offer in this context as regards the preservation of our fundamental livelihoods are exemplary and can make us proud together. However, I should also like to take the opportunity to point out that there has also been support from the political competitors – the Freedom Party and the BZÖ – in relation to the insulation initiative, which is a very valuable initiative. This close-up to environmental issues is highly necessary because there is an external view. Other countries are very interested in our technologies and the green jobs we have to offer in this context. Allow me to mention some examples where Austria is extremely successful at international level: The Austrian EVN/AVN is active in the environment for 20 million people worldwide, has several plants in Moscow with hundreds of millions of investments and imposing values when it comes to the disposal of waste water to provide water. The international company EVN/AVN also supplies cities such as Istanbul, Zagreb and this in enormous dimensions. These are examples where there is recognition from the outside for our technology, which we can be proud of together. And I ask for this shoulder closure because in the future it is also about selling these products, and that is only credible if everyone can stand on these issues.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e47619	Now Mr. Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e47641	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! I can comment on the environmental chapter of the 2013 budget. Mr Linder, it is true that we have fixed the rates of support for flood protection measures, which bear federal, regional and local authorities. I told you earlier that over the last four years, we have implemented 8 000 projects throughout Austria. On the contrary, the communities are very interested in the fact that we are implementing flood protection measures, including in the context of the Wildbach and avalanche cultivation – and we are doing so. To what you have not correctly described here: Due to the disaster in Sankt Lorenzo in Styria, we have activated additional funds, negotiated from the financial unit for the budget of the Ministry of Life with which we are helping the communities. If, as in the Styria, a case occurs that a community has an extreme flood event and then cannot fix the damage, we will meet the communities! – They represent it as if it were the other way round. [[President Neugebauer is taking over again.]] At the federal level, we agreed that there is additional funding for emergency measures. Sankt Lorenzen in Styria has suffered enormous damage, and there is an urgent need to take action to avoid even greater damage. And there we agreed that there are higher rates of support for the communities. We have actually done what you call for in your criticism: We have set higher funding rates to provide more favourable funding opportunities for communities with extreme damage over €250 000, not only in Styria, but throughout Austria. It was important to me that we help the communities and, above all, help the people there on site. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] By the way, this will not only be the case in the coming year 2013, we will also have additional funds this year and also for the next years until 2016 to help directly through emergency measures and, of course, to implement the normal expansion programme in flood protection. Ladies and gentlemen! Domestic environmental support is the most important instrument we have in the field of promoting environmental protection and climate protection. Here we finance measures such as in the area of renewable energy expansion, energy saving measures, the Environmental measures, but also measures to reduce the use of resources, such as less energy, less raw materials, less water, in order to still have an economic success. Austria is the first country in the European Union to have a resource efficiency action plan – in German: [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Brunner]] We are working here together with the economy, with the social partners, as we are still competitive for our economy, by managing resources efficiently and achieving a maximum. One of the most important measures in the context of environmental promotion will also be thermal renovation in 2013, one of the most important measures for climate protection, which will also save people money. Rehabilitation of housing brings long-term energy savings. These programmes have been running successfully for years. Today it is so that they are not used so strongly, but we are continuing these programmes next year, we are not reducing anything because it is important to maintain and expand these recovery rates. €100 million brings €700 million in investment, 10,000 jobs are secured and newly created, and at least 4 million tonnes of CO2 are saved. In addition to environmental effects, there are also positive aspects of employment policy. The theme of Green Jobs is also a focus in 2013. We consistently implement the Master Plan Green Jobs, we currently have 210 000 people in this area. And by 2020, it is 100 000 workers that we can create here, for example in the whole area of building management, thermal renovation, as well as in the expansion of renewable energies towards energy self-sufficient Austria, to eco-logistization of transport, to eco-offering in tourism – to read everything in the Master Plan Green Jobs. And because a discussion on the topic of Green Jobs always arises: Green jobs are not only university professors, but also employees who provide services to the environment. I turn to the fact that this is how it is done: Well, that's one who's gonna clean up the shit. – Yes, a person who cleans up the trash also provides eco-services! This is a hard work, and it is important that these people do it. It is about giving a motivation that this person also gets the recognition that he delivers an important environmental performance – just like a university professor or a technician. We need this motivation in the environmental field so that we can bring together and reconcile ecology and economics, i.e. the environment and the economy. That is why we are continuing to work on this issue. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Sustainable nature and environmental protection is about maintaining and expanding the resources for the Austrian national parks, implementing activities of the climate and energy strategy and providing information on environmental technology. We have the export initiative environmental technology, we are top-ranking in waste management, in water supply, wastewater disposal, and we use this technology not only in Austria, but also sell it very successfully abroad, creating green jobs through exports of Austrian environmental technology. Yes, and Austria is a model country in many areas in nature and environmental protection. We're a bioworld champion. Organic agriculture: No land has as much organic farming as we do. This is what we want to ensure in rural development. And it is also in nature conservation. We have set biodiversity targets in Nagoya in Japan. There is the goal that worldwide 17 percent of the earth's surface under nature This is the first time that the Commission has been able to give We are much further ahead in Austria, with us 27 percent of the land area is protected in some form, whether it be a national park – three percent of the area – as landscape protected areas, nature reserves or “Natura 2000” areas. We have a high value here, to which agriculture and forestry also contributes through the environmental programme, and we are proud of that. This is why the discussion on the EU budget's multiannual financial framework plays an important role here, since it not only affects farmers, but – I have mentioned this earlier – nature conservation is also very likely because of the funding of key nature conservation measures from rural development. Think of species conservation projects! I mentioned this, I emphasize it again: Kaiseradler, the projects to suspend the beard vulture, up to the wild cat project, the large-scale project, the cross-border – Lower Austria, Burgenland, Slovakia, Hungary – works. We have success in nature conservation there, also in biodiversity protection. We also support projects of nature parks and national parks from rural development. We are implementing the EU Nature Conservation Directive, the Fauna-Flora-Habitat Directive. LIFE projects, major nature conservation projects, are financed through rural development. I am saying this because it is clear what is at stake when the EU budget is being negotiated next week. This is about farmers' money, but it is very likely that it is also about ecology and the preservation of the rural environment. And that is why we are so much in favour of this 30 percent reduction by Van Rompuy, because then we can't continue this course – that must be clear to everyone – because then we have to raise the funds nationally, and this is a difficult undertaking in the face of the tight cash registers. Therefore, Austria must be self-confident. We have a common line in the Federal Government, and we will also use it – at the head of the Federal Chancellors – in these negotiations. To the Climate and Energy Fund: The Climate and Energy Fund is also funded. We have had to make savings there, but we can compensate for this by means of reserves, so that the funds are available. As far as the expansion of renewable energy is concerned, the photovoltaic support action is constantly being discussed. One thing has to be said quite openly: It's true, people are looking for, and the money is quickly forgiven. But: When it comes to implementation, it turns out that many people withdraw their applications and then do not build them at all. The installers rightly complain. We have already expanded the directives so that people have to make an offer, and, and, in order to ensure that they really are implemented, many, unfortunately, withdraw many of these requests. We are there in conversation with the Innung, also with the Photovoltaic Organization, in order to shape the conditions in such a way that then really is built and implemented because we all have an interest in it. The same is true of electric mobility and also of the climate and energy model regions. Here I place great emphasis on the partnership with the communities. Throughout Austria, we now have over 80 regions with around 880 municipalities working on energy autarchy across all party borders. This is something that is important in view of rising energy prices: generating energy in its own country, making it more independent from abroad and providing safe energy for people in Austria. In conclusion: Yes, the environmental budget is reduced, that is true, but it was always clear that if the Kyoto period expires in 2012, the programmes such as JI/CDM and flexible reserve will no longer be taught. That's quite clear. These programmes have always been criticized by some in the opposition, and they are now – it says since years fixed – set to zero because they are no longer addressed. The trade in certificates is now being held at the European level and is no longer to be financed nationally. Therefore, these budget positions are lost and are no longer in this budget. In conclusion: We finance programmes in the areas of urban water management, waste disposal and water management. We'll need more money in the future. That is why we have also been conducting a study on the size of the need for renovation and the need for expansion in sewerage and water supply in the communities. And when the study is complete, we will enter into negotiations to put up the financial resources here too. In this sense: Let us continue to work on an Austria where environmental protection and climate protection are a priority! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e47765	The next speaker is Mr Jannach. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e47786	Mr President. Federal Minister! I'll be back on the subject of agriculture. Two points which I would like to raise. First of all, I would like to ask the Members of the Federal Government who have taken the floor here, Mr Prince, Mr Grillitsch, but also to you, Mr Federal Minister: In which world, please, do you live? Today I was in doubt whether the “Alice in Wonderland” is or the never found Atlantis. I will show you the section from today’s “Small Newspaper” – I also brought you the paper. This is today’s “Small Newspaper” – no doubt not a party organ of the FPÖ – which titles: [[The speaker keeps a newspaper page up to date]] ‘Bauernbundlers are threatened with a wave of exits’. – And you’re here to the speaker’s desk and say: Everything's palette, everything's fine! We take care of rural areas! No one needs to worry! – So that’s an unfrozenness that I’ve never had at all. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The threat of the veto is also particularly interesting. Vice chancellor Spindelegger says we're gonna put in a veto. You too, Mr Federal Minister, have threatened with a veto when rural development is cut short. – I expect the Minister of Agriculture to do so. But now I am reading to you what is also in today’s “Small Newspaper”, what your own Commissioner, Johannes Hahn, in Brussels, says about the veto threat that the ÖVP has issued here: ‘EU budget: ==References====External links== – I quote: “In Brussels this was at least ‘not a violent meteorite impact’.” – Citing. And everyone who knows John Hahn knows that he is a very polite person. In reality, he has guided you with this: Slightly! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Wheeler: Go! - Order call!]] But now we are coming to the budget, because that is the item on the agenda we are talking about. Sacrifice, honesty and transparency – these are the requirements of the budget as well. But all of this does not apply to the agricultural budget at all. Mr Minister, you mentioned the LEADER programme, and Mr Prinz mentioned the LEADER programme today, but you did not say that there is a devastating Court of Auditors report on the LEADER programme. There was a mismanagement, there was no control, no sustainable review of the target-orientedness of the funds – pure waste of money! [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich: That's not true!]] Here you have to take care of order. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich: That's not true!]] Then please read the LEADER report. I can also make this available to you. We're going to treat him in plenary. The second Court of Auditors report on the Ministry, known as the corruption investigation committee, was discussed: €4 million for a homepage, which is expected to cost up to €400 000, and €30 million for personal consecration in the ads in recent years. 30 million € for public work only! And now comes the third Court of Auditors report on the public health programme that you so massively praise. Here, too, there is a strong criticism of the sensibleness of some measures, the irrevolvability of the application and of the control activity. In fact, I wonder how you, as a minister, can sit here quietly if, within half a year, there are three devastating Court of Auditors reports about your ministry. [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich: Because they are not destructive! They're just trying to figure out negative things!]] The Court of Auditors not only confirms a financial inability, but also a technical one. In the context of this technical inability found in the three Court of Auditors reports, I would also like to point out that it is also a scandal in the case of the alm feeding area, as is the case with the farmers. We've already treated this x-time. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I urge you to finally ensure cleanliness and proper handling of the farmers here and finally stop these shocks that happen at the alm feeding surface over the AMA. Transparency in the budget: We have looked at the budget, we have also discussed it in the Committee. And the budget looks like the corruption investigation committee didn't even exist. Nothing is listed in detail. Public relations: 3 million € – about, a little less – but no detailed list. Furthermore, there is no information on how much the Ministry of Farmers News, which belongs to the ÖVP Farmers' Association, is going to shoot. There is no list of how much is shot directly to the peasantry, no list of how much the eco-social forum, which has not yet brought anything to the farmers. And then there is the biggest post called “work performance by third parties. ” In “work performances by third parties”, with millions of amounts, everything is hidden, which can probably only be imagined – from consulting contracts to grants to all possible associations. Here we demand transparency! [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich: You have adopted the guidelines for the budget!]] We cannot accept this budget in this way. [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich: You have decided the guidelines that the budget so!]] – Like Mr Pirklhuber, should I move the microphone even closer to you so that you can speak? [[Abg. Steibl: So, can you talk at eye level and not so heretic?- Oh, my God!]] Let's get to the basics. . You must come at your doorstep before you shudder about the European Union and the cuts. That's the most important thing. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grillitic.]] Dear colleague Grillitsch! I would like to point out once again that a savings package has been decided with your vote: € 50 million by removing the agricultural diesel; Increase in social security contributions: € 85 million additional burden; Increase in levies for agricultural contributions: 10 million € of the burden; Real estate tax: 200 million € a year for agriculture. – Be on your own doorstep! Then you do not need to resort to Brussels and to propose to Brussels that you have less money. The re-evaluation of the unit values is also a point. So you have created a massive burden for the local farmers. And I have to show you this again – your own people, my dear colleague Grillitsch, from Styria –: Farmers' Associations want to leave the Farmers' Federation! - It's in the paper today. That's not a criticism that comes from us, it's from your own people! That must give you some thought, please. So take care of it here! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We expect that before our own doorstep, the budget will be saved, in the administration that is bloated up to the point where the recommendations from the Court of Auditors report will no longer be implemented, so that money will not disappear into dark channels in the ministry, in the AMA, but also in the agricultural chambers, but will come to those who really need it, namely to the farmers.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e47954	Next speaker: Mr Sacher. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e47975	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Federal Chancellor Faymann here in the House reaffirmed his commitment to further support for rural areas and made it clear to us that we are working beyond agriculture and agriculture for all people in rural areas. We have people in rural areas in the heart. In Austria, rural areas are of particular importance, and so far the funding has been paid, on the one hand by the EU and on the other hand by co-financing, on the other. Nearly €4 billion were used by Austrian side during this period. It is precisely these funds that strengthen rural areas and enable many projects. I can say that as a forest-fourther, how much we have benefited from these subsidies in this disadvantaged region. However, it should be noted that the Court of Auditors has just pointed out that Austria is using funds far beyond its commitments – almost a quarter more than we were actually committed to the EU. And there the contributions of the municipalities in these 85 LEADER regions are not yet included. However, given the high reserves accumulated in the agricultural budget, this is an important point, ladies and gentlemen. The Court of Auditors not only complains of the level, but above all doubts the efficiency of the use of resources. On this point I would like to stress: First and foremost We in the rural area must be concerned with the creation of additional jobs. This must be the main objective of the support policy. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I would like to give you a concrete example from my region, the forest district. There, an IT entrepreneur, a software entrepreneur, has turned to us and reported that he has created jobs, but, unfortunately, because of a truly strong capacity for broadband, he is now forced to move these jobs to Vienna, because he can no longer serve his international client's lack of sufficient capacity in broadband. That is why, Mr Federal Minister, we want these funds to be used for such support measures – I think we have already talked about them in the Committee, and I may ask you to work in this way too – in order to create new, modern, future-oriented jobs in rural areas.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e48026	Next speaker: Mr Rädler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e48048	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr Auer, it would be tempting to go into your seats now that the axis between Holland and him has been addressed. [[da Abg. May. Josef Auer on the square of Abg. May. Prammer sits]] I spent three days with my colleague Cap in Paris, since it was not possible to build this axis. But the Neoclubobmann did it. So really great! I should like to congratulate the SPÖ on this. But now to the environmental budget. € 658 million in the environmental sector, which can be invested next year, show that many environmental policy segments can make forward-looking policies, although many of them have already been criticized. It has not been said that support programmes have expired and are therefore also a minus, that can be admitted, but in the end those important measures that are future investment can be taught. I'm just thinking about thermal renovation. This concerns the communities concerned with the construction industry. 10 000 jobs can thus be secured. And that with 100 million € funding volume. 800 million € for investment and an increase in the budget by 23 percent – that's something! I would also like to focus briefly on the situation of the municipalities – the speaking time is very limited. The 334 million €, which are taught in the water industry, bring a lot to the communities for renovations. Although we have 98 percent expansion in this area, we have a network of forty years old and older, which, of course, can now be renewed with the municipalities, and the investments made here help us in the local area, but also the construction industry in the rural regions. We have investments that make up about €1,000 per head to get up-to-date technology here. I would like to thank you very much for the fact that this measure is increasingly being made available from the environmental budget on the part of the Federal Government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e48091	Next speaker: Mrs Königsberger-Ludwig. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e48114	Mr President. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I am pleased that today, throughout the debate on agriculture, there is a clear commitment by all political groups, I think, to strengthen rural areas. It is also nice that there is a clear commitment to small-structured agriculture. The Minister said clearly in his speech on Tuesday that we do not want an agricultural industry. There the Minister certainly also has the support of SPÖ, because we do not want an agricultural industry either. However, if you look at the development in Austria, you can see that the development is also heading in the direction of farmers saying goodbye to small farms and increasing farms. I think you have to see that you don't completely lose sight of that, otherwise every lip confession is just a lip confession and not really lived politics. If you take these two points seriously, you have to deal with two things from our point of view: On the one hand, this is a change in the funding landscape. It is also important to create more distribution justice in the agricultural policy, away from the area and towards the promotion of labour force, and it is also necessary – it is nice that this has been addressed more often today – to give a commitment that the rural area is more than agricultural support. There are programmes in this area, the LEADER programmes, there is also a clear objective, which is also set out in the budget, and I also think this is very positive, Mr Minister, but there is also a clear responsibility to implement this objective, and this responsibility, Mr Minister, lies with you. On the one hand, it is important to implement this objective in Austria and, on the other hand, to ensure that this objective can actually be implemented in Brussels; of course, with the support of all parties, but the responsibility lies with you. I think it is also an opportunity to develop the new LEADER period to see the rural area as a whole – Mr. Prince has already mentioned it; there are many policy areas that are called there – but I am also in favour of more transparency in the preparation of concepts, programmes, and there must also be more participation of as many stakeholders as possible. Only then can it be implemented that the rural area is actually what it is, namely habitat for more than 50 percent of Austrians.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e48152	Next speaker: Mr Mayer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e48173	Mr President. Estimated Minister of State! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) The framework conditions for our farmers are not quite simple in comparison to other professional groups. On the one hand, we face an increased risk of weather, on the other hand, we know about the volatile markets that make up the farmers' success, but also political decisions at the federal and European level, of course, affect the success of agriculture. It is all the more remarkable that in the past young farmers have been able to invest in agriculture. We have had a successful programme here, and in the second pillar of the common agricultural policy we have good investment support, and this has resulted in young farmers and farmers being able to make a living. Unfortunately, we must find that these resources have just run out in the current period and can't be done here. If you know that there has been a lot of value added in rural areas – 23 000 € have been invested in the regional economy per farm – this is a very, very important factor. All the more so, during a new funding period, we must again focus on investment support for farmers. But it is also important to note that in the 2013 budget for agriculture the volume of € 130 million for agricultural investment loans can be continued. That's a drop on the hot stone. Among other things, I would also like to say that the funds for training our agricultural schools, our secondary schools and universities are once again at the best possible level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e48215	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Gaßner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e48237	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Almost every contribution to the debate has been made to rural areas and rural areas have to be supported. If you look more closely at the budget, you can also see the objective of action 2 – I was very pleased, Minister of State: “Sustainable development of a vital rural area with the same development opportunities for women and men.” – Wonderful! And then it says: Why this goal? – The rural area is for many people in Austria a world of life, economics and work. It's impeccable! It's right that this is finally seen. However, I am somewhat skeptical, Mr Federal Minister, if I look at the budget more closely, because the budget has been reduced by €37.5 million compared to the previous year, and of these 37.5 million, 35.2 million are appropriations for rural development. I hope that this Spagat will succeed so that this effect target 2 can actually be met. And then comes this terrible statement from Van Rompuy, that here in the field of agriculture is again enormously shortened, and everyone is now looking excitedly at how this development continues, how the Austrian representatives will negotiate. That's what Veto's gonna do and I know what I'm talking about. All mean: The Federal Chancellor! – Of course, our Chancellor has clearly and clearly stated to him what rural development is, what rural areas mean to him, what the miners are worth to him by the organic farmers. That's what our Federal Chancellor stands for. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But, Mr. Federal Minister, I already have a question. You have been negotiating the common agricultural policy for over a year now and everything possible around it with your high-ranking officials. This year, have you not been able to convince Van Rompuy how important this money is for our rural farmers, for our rural area as a whole? Austria is something different from northern Germany or other countries. I am already asking whether there is still a lot of persuasion to be done before we threaten with Veto. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e48279	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Windy. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e48301	Mr President. Federal Minister! The agricultural budget is on the agenda, and I now explicitly want to devote myself to the public sector. This is – not everyone knows that – the Austrian programme for environmentally sound agriculture. A total of € 770 million is earmarked for rural development, and half of it is reserved for public transport. ÖPUL – a smooth success story in Europe. Even EU Agriculture Commissioner Dacian Cioloş has made it an example, as an example, and we have managed to implement this inclusive approach. In the meantime, 90 percent of domestic agricultural areas are integrated into this programme. In total, there are 29 different measures for farmers, which they can choose from a pool. It has already been spoken of today about the sensuality of public opinion and questioning it. That's inexplicable to me. On the basis of my experience, I would like to explain to you how this bridge between producing agriculture and environmental performance works. On the basis of the greening, I would like to explain this to you. First of all, for soil protection. By feeding the plant residues, the rainworm, the soil life is fed. Humus levels rise to 3 to 4 percent in the maximum and optimal range, and the fertility of the soils is increased. Secondly, The protection of species is promoted. Through the conscious cultivation of flowering cultures, of Phacelia, of mustard, of buckwheat, there are bees and also corresponding asses and shelters for the wild up to the late autumn. Thirdly, Climate protection. The additional cultivation of plants binds additional CO2 and produces oxygen. By the way – perhaps you don't know – the sugar beet produces 16 million liters of oxygen a year and thus the fourfold of the forest. It's just by the way. Fourthly, resource protection. By growing the plants, nutrients are prevented and groundwater protected. Fifth: Erosion protection. The rooting of the plants will stop wind erosion and water drainage. And last but not least: Promote biodiversity through the cultivation of additional plants and the enrichment of the fruit sequence. I would like to say that this does not result in organic farming, but rather in a normal conventional operation. And for these plants too, one must break the lance, because these normal, conventional plants also produce on the highest standard, farms that we need from the quantities, especially in view of the food price debate, companies that produce durable food on the highest standard. It's indispensable for our country. Finally, ladies and gentlemen: If you want these benefits to continue, you must also take care of the money, the absolute deadline of €3.8 billion for rural development for the next period, which is also chordd. Therefore, once again the appeal to our Federal Chancellor: Fight like a lion for this money, so that Austria can continue to benefit farmers who benefit from the environment, so that the Austrian landscape can continue to remain so green, so that farmers can continue to create this green day after day, day after day! For I think with this achievement that the farmers show here, they are anyway the true greens in this country.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e48348	Next speaker: Mr Wenninger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e48369	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! These hymns of praise from the ÖVP on German Chancellor Werner Faymann and their enormous expectation remind me as a contemporary interested person a little of the era Bruno Kreisky, which was an era in which the farmers benefited most politically. Somehow there are reminiscences. But I can assure you that we have full confidence that the Federal Chancellor will continue to work actively for rural development, especially with the support of our coalition partner. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Federal Minister! I would like to comment on a few climate-related budget approaches. We have environmental support in Germany and abroad with around 121 million € and the climate and energy funds with 60 million €. Now the Greens have not been unwarrantedly complained that, after the Kyoto period has expired, the budget for climate certificates will no longer be available. With regard to the forthcoming UN Climate Change Conference in Doha, Austria and the European Union have an obligation to provide global climate targets and to ensure their financing in order to bring the other industrialised countries and developing countries into line. The EU target, 30 percent greenhouse gas reduction by 2020 compared to 2009, is an objective that is not excessive, but ambitious and feasible. My specific question, Mr Minister – we have already tried to discuss this in committee – is: We have a few surpluses in recent years from the flexible reserve. In fact, the certificates were cheaper than those feared by the opposition, and economic development contributed to this. For example, some €250 million from the budgeted area of the flexible reserve remain. Now I know that no one likes to have money left, but as environmental spokesperson of the SPÖ, I would like to point out that the funds left out of the climate area will be used in the future in the climate, and not in other channels, in other expenditures of your resort. Therefore, the proposal that the remaining resources from the flexible reserve should actually be used for domestic climate-related projects, but also for climate-related projects that can be expected at the ODA rate, for example in developing countries. For a dedicated climate policy, you have a strong ally in us, and I wish all of us that the UN Climate Change Conference in Doha will succeed despite the low expectations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e48417	Next speaker: Mr Jakob Auer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e48442	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, Estimated group of visitors and fan club of colleague Gahr from Wattens in Tyrol! Welcome to the Agriculture chapter! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to thank the Federal Minister for a very dedicated budget which was possible as part of the reorganisation efforts. This also takes into account the importance of agriculture. It is possible to ensure the necessary co-financing, it is also clearly regulated that agriculture is an important factor. This is a matter of respect and recognition. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Agricultural production is more than just the production of food, feed and energy, it is also a crucial issue for tourism. If agriculture cannot operate to this extent, the face of the country also loses attractiveness, and we should stick to that. I was very excited, ladies and gentlemen, and, of course, Mr Jannach was not able to get away from his old litany. I didn’t know he was such a believing person, he obviously believes everything in the “Small Newspaper”. But what would he do if he didn’t have the “Small Newspaper ”? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Jannach, keeping a newspaper section in height.]] As Mr Jannach once again tried to adapt the Minister of the Federal Republic of Germany, because the Minister of State has made a number of ads: Mr Jannach, who is that? – Your party colleague from Upper Austria, who is here large and clearly advertised in the municipal newspaper! [[The speaker keeps a newspaper up to date.]] What is the other thing but, in turn, paid by the country of Upper Austria, to put itself in the picture? Ladies and gentlemen, you have time to take care of your own order! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] I understand that Mr Huber has complained of earlier times today, because today's young farmers don't believe your caste, namely the livestock dealers, everything. There is a clear understanding of this. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the ÖVP.]] There was more possible in the past. The times are over, because today there are facts and not the beautiful words about things that usually do not happen. Ladies and gentlemen! It is always thought that the rural area is only the support perspective for the rural population, but I have a nice list here, which is all financed in the rural area. [[The speaker keeps a brochure up to date.]] In the second place, the speaker for nature conservation Upper Austria will be found, which will cover almost € 1 million from the rural budget. In the sixth place is a farm, of course a organic plant, with just over 540 000 €. And then, Mr Huber, there are some livestock dealers who have a political relationship with Mr Huber. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Huber.]] In this sense, ladies and gentlemen, you would have work enough to look for yourself instead of adapting a successful Federal Minister. But obviously it's like this: He's too successful for you, and that's why you have to throw dirt all the time. Be careful that not too much dirt sticks to you!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e48542	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Oh, no, no, - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e48565	Mr President. Estimated Minister for the Environment! According to my name colleague Jakob The Joseph Auer now opens – keyword: Nutrient. I'll try and get the emotions down a little. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] Mrs Brunner, I am not of your opinion in criticism of the reduction in the budget. The Minister has already made this clear in the Committee with several arguments. I can't follow you there. You don't have to bring that here anymore. They are the chairman of the committee and know very well the explanations. I am very sure that I am in another point of your opinion. Mr Gaßner referred to the objectives of effect here, one very specific point. An effective goal is “sustainable use of resources and secondary raw materials”. And here I am very sure you think, Mr Brunner, that there is still a lot to do in this regard. That is why I appeal to you, Minister: Although the Austrians are industrious in collecting old materials, they are rather slow in the prevention of waste. Without a multiway, you throw more away, you could say! There would still be incentives to create. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Brunner.]] It is very important that we create incentives and that we also advertise accordingly. This is also necessary, Minister, whether you want or not. In Vienna alone, the conversion of PET bottles, of 1.5 litres of mineral water bottles, could save an oil supply of 5 million litres. So you can see that there's a lot possible. Mr Windisch, you have only spoken about greenery in connection with the rural regions. I would like to add: What would an apple tree be if it were just green? He needs a flower, too. He needs a fruit, too. And there's something like that red with it. It is often the same with the implementations: The black half of the empire, when it comes to the affected, then – not only in nature, that is, in politics – you need the reds very well! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I am, Mr Jakob Auer, just a small parliamentarian, so I have a limited, that is, flat-rate speaking time, and therefore I can no longer contribute to the speeches. Perhaps you will allow me, however, to congratulate a colleague of ours, Mrs Andrea Gessl-Ranftl, who is having a birthday today, and then perhaps I have applause from everyone – in the sense: for her. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e48631	Next speaker: Mr Plessl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e48652	Mr President. Estimated Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! At the beginning of its term of office, this Federal Government was faced with a difficult exceptional situation, with the biggest economic crisis since 1930. In order to prevent the threat of unemployment, economic activity has been developed and implemented. In international comparison, these measures have now been confirmed, as it has been shown that we have the lowest unemployment in the EU comparison. In addition to these investments, it is of course also important to look to the future. The stabilisation package we have now agreed with the Federal Government provides for that no further debt will be made from 2016 onwards. It is therefore the right step for the future, including for our young people. Ladies and gentlemen! Economic data show that GDP has decreased by 0.1 percent in the third quarter. In his appearance yesterday in the ORF at “ECO”, Mr Muchitsch showed that construction measures must be implemented because unemployment will increase more there. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The government clause has already set ambitions in this area, but I would like to briefly outline two additional possibilities: The first possibility concerns the settlement of water management. There is a need for support for local authorities. Next year, 2013, €6.28 million is planned in the budget. It would be good to remember in the area of settlement water management that one-time amounts should be made available to the communities to intensify this. Currently there are only one-time amounts below € 100 000, everything else is shot at annual rates. However, interfinancing is also necessary for many municipalities. The second possibility concerns systematic thermal renovation. We have currently planned €100 million for this, only 52 million have been collected. In addition to households and the economy, the possibility was offered to include the multi-storey housing and public buildings. Because here it would be very important to set further accents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e48698	Next speaker: Deputy Duster. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e48719	Mr President. Estimated Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Values listeners! I would like to take two points, after almost everything has already been said. On what my colleague Mr Plessl just said: I also see it as extremely positive and reasonable that we continue the thermal rehabilitation offensive. After you, Mr Minister, have already been mentioned that not all the funds have been collected this year, I would like to suggest that we also extend this action to the cities and communities, because we all have in our municipalities schools, municipal houses, offices, kindergartens, kindergartens and so on, which would be thermally rehabilitating. That would certainly help us. We would certainly like to use this money so that we can renovate our objects as well. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] A second point mentioned by many of my mayors here concerns the infrastructure in rural areas. I have to mention it again: Water supply, wastewater treatment and also the protection of water buildings are simply a problem for the municipalities. Every percentage point to be reduced in support is a problem for us communities. We confess that we have all this to do. Above all, the reorganisation of the lines will cost us a lot of money in the future, and we also need the support of the federal and state governments. I know everybody has no money, so we have to see how we do this together. But I'm thinking, We should take the concerns in rural areas, the rural population seriously for this important infrastructure and not just giving lip commitment from us.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e48764	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Steßl-Mühlbacher. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e48786	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! My colleague said before that a lot of things have already been mentioned, but I think that: It's just not everybody's. In order to avoid this, I would like to take a brief look at the budget. We have a global budget of around €658 million for general environmental policy and for the waste and settlement industry. If you study the budget more precisely and you also look at what reserves can be made through the new budget law – we remember, ladies and gentlemen: through the new budgetary law we face the “November fever” and the “December fever”; it can be created by every single ministry – you will find in the UG 43 a reserve formation of around €520.4 million. In this context, I would be interested in what happens to these reserves, Minister, how you want to use the money for active environmental and climate protection, which objectives you pursue with this set-aside formation, and in particular what future issues you will pursue in the field of environment, innovation and technology, because it is important that we also increase the overall renewable energy to achieve sustainability and efficiency.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e48816	There are no more words available. The topics are therefore dealt with. [[17:48:44]] Heading 5 (Cash and interest rates) [[17:48:49]] UG 15: Financial management UG 16: Public charges UG 23: Pensions UG 44: Financial compensation UG 45: Federal assets UG 46: Financial stability UG 51: Cash account UG 58: financing, exchange-rate contracts and Text of the Federal Finance Act and other parts of Appendix I, including Appendices II to IV
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e48898	We are now entering the negotiations on heading 5 (cash and interest rates) with its breakdowns. A joint debate is taking place on this matter. The first honourable Member to speak is Mr Podgorschek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e48926	Mr President. No one's sitting on the government bench, but it doesn't matter. I'll still have my opinion. kundtun. It has already been said in a number of speeches that we have fallen somewhat back in the ranking, especially in tax policy, in recent years. If you want to know which institution has found out: This is the International Institute for Management Development from Lausanne. Austria is from 56th to 59th. Place dropped back. But we also have a decline in location ranking. We were still on the 11th in 2007. ==References== Place, and now, 2012, we're on the 21st. It's all right. This seems to be a symptom for the whole inefficiency of that, one can say, once great coalition. A symptom of this is also the shift of the power relations from the federal government to the countries in recent years. While the countries between 2007 and 2013 could increase their tax share from €7 billion to over €14 billion, the Federal Government's share has become less and less and therefore also the power ratios. That basically means: The heads of state move through the country and can be held at various openings, starting from circulation, accordingly, but they do not bear the responsibility for the money that needs to be taken in. It is therefore already questionable whether the Heads of State should also be responsible for some form of taxation. Finally, they pass this pressure on to the communities, and then the communities are responsible for social areas – I am thinking only of my federal state – for kindergartens, hospital costs, fire brigade, sports facilities, local transport. For all of this, the communities should bear the responsibility. This leads to a pressure for cooperation and mergers. And then, if the communities want to do so, they are also punished in the case of cooperations by having to pay VAT on the provision of services. In order to enable voluntary cooperation of the municipalities at all, they must be further promoted. In my view, obstacles should be removed as far as possible. I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I think that would bring about an increase in efficiency. Especially in Upper Austria, the representatives of the local government lament that they are insignificantly disadvantaged. I have a second motion for a resolution. This will be my colleague Mag. Haider and me brought in. This application is as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This budget is marked by a lack of courage to change, by mutual blockade and by fear of change. Both on the expenditure side and on the revenue side, this budget is an expression of chronic indifference, which has welded red and black together into an inedible unit size.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e49032	Both motions for resolutions have been properly tabled and are under negotiation. The two applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e49154	Next speaker: Mr Schultes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e49176	Mr President. Estimated Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In our Republic, the central question is whether it works or not when the individual levels and organizations work together. Today we have already discussed a lot about Austria and the EU and our financial contributions, but from our federal budget we also need to organise the finances of the countries and communities. When we look at this, we see that in recent years we have burdened countries and communities with many additional tasks. It is therefore understandable that the question has been asked over and over again: Can this also be covered financially? You can really say: This budget, which we are now presenting for 2013, will take due account of the interests of the countries and will also allow the communities to fulfil their tasks. Cooperation works in such a way that the great division makes the Republic, the countries make regional adjustment, and directly for citizens the mayors in the communities provide the services that are necessary. This year alone, the increase in transfers to countries and communities will be 5.8 percent. That's a decent amount. Countries' incomes have also increased: from €12.4 billion in 2009, when we decided on this budget system, to €14.544 billion in 2013. That means a lot more room for play. Breaked down to Lower Austria: We have been able to transfer €2.2 billion to the municipalities in 2009. In 2013, there will be €2.7 billion. This is much more room for the mayors, much more scope for citizens' benefits. I am very happy to say that the countries are working well in the example of Lower Austria. Then: Lower Austria has taken the hospitals into the country, and since the hospitals have been managed by the country, brought together in the Landeskliniken-Holding, the subsidy of the carriers has fallen from € 200 million to € 122 million from 2007 to 2011. – Great performance, you can say, because the tax money on site is sufficiently well worked. It's made more of the euro. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] A total that we might also be interested in is: How much do countries and municipalities get? For beyond the financial balance there are yes additional grants, such as € 93 million for childcare or € 200 million for the care fund in the coming year. In total, the €28.6 billion will be given to the countries and communities. Lower Austria will receive € 5.1 billion. It's never been that much. It has probably never been so good and so effective for citizens with the money. The Republic works. The administrative reform also. In Lower Austria at least we already have the new civil service law and take many steps to better use the money. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e49237	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Kogler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e49258	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Minister! I would just like to address a few aspects that have been selected. Actually, we should put the chapters we are negotiating at the beginning of the debate, but because of the atmosphere here, I am not going to go into everything, but perhaps to the subgroup 46 and perhaps also to the financial compensation. But in general: Yes, you can hear it, it's not all bad in our state, it also works a lot or much – you like it even better – quite well. But I don't want to stop for too long. We still have the virulent banking problem in this whole phase of the budgetary perspective, from 2013 to 2016, or now for the 2013 budget. I add the keyword: Problem banks. Mr Rossmann will then address financial stability even more in detail, but I will now say something about the processes that will soon reach us here in the house. This has to do with a report from the Court of Auditors on the so-called banking package, but then, more precisely, with regard to the emergency of local credit. This is obviously underestimated here in the house. That is totally underestimated! It will not be done with the fact that we are dealing with this like any Court of Auditors report, where we are simply talking about the summary of reports for one or two hours in the presence of a member of the government, but hardly with any witnesses, and the President of the Court of Auditors speaks twice. No, I'm sure not! Our findings are in the 2013 budget – we are talking about the budget – that we will have accumulated net losses of €6 billion until then. Net! That is what the non-problem banks pay back on liability fees and also on interest on participation capital. 6 billion we don't see anymore! Or does anyone want to come here now – then perhaps you, Mrs. Minister? – and to call us that we get back money from the hypo that we still have something from the municipal credit? – And with the banks we must be happy if we somehow get this over the rounds. But should all of this have been like that? – Your claim, by the way, above all that of your predecessors, reads: Yes! All right, but then let's look at that. It can't be that we're doing six-billion holes in two hours in the house. No, no, no, I mean, 3 billion per hour, that's not g'sund! That's a lot of what we've done in the last committee of inquiry – a lot! Now it may be true that it was quite difficult, the days and nights of decision-making, of decision-making. But there are also those who claim otherwise, including the Court of Auditors. He may be mistaken, that has already happened, but it cannot be so that we take a unanimous decision here – and now we are putting it together – not with the municipal credit, because that was an audit of our own drive, as I think, but with the bank package, with the implementation of the bank package, which was still unanimously decided. That's what we have to listen to all the time. We are also in favour, but we are already talking about implementation. That's our control assignment. Now we have not enforced in the laws, in the packages, because it really went every hour and every night – we have not enforced it and yet agreed – that the Court of Auditors is involved in control from the outset. That was different in Germany. Then, due to other negotiating circumstances – I do not want to carry out this more closely – I may reach sensitive zones again – here in the house, not some discharger, but a real audit order to the Court of Auditors, but then it is unanimous, because everyone has also seen it. Now there is the result, now these objections are present; now, I believe, we have to follow this up. But everything that seems to be happening is a huge dive of the ÖVP – the ÖVP Group – which now has nothing to do with the government; it is not here, the Member of Parliament, Gahr, as the leader of the political groups – and that will not happen! I say we will do this with a longer list of witnesses. Without cargo, at least the ex-minister Pröll – some also want former minister Molterer – will not do that if you want to do it serious. ==References====External links== In November the Commission adopted a proposal for a Directive on the approximation of the laws, I only say to you that it will be useful – if we want to deal with this together – if we agree on this load list, that the appropriate ministers, the ministers responsible at the time, must also be heard. It hasn't been that long. And as long as it hasn't been that a prominent bank board of an Austrian bank in action unit with the then Minister of State Pröll live in the “ZiB 2” – I can still remember; if we could play videos here, I would now make it to you instead of a Taferl – explained that the It's going to be a business for the Republic. – 6 billion net loss, so far! So, and now we just want to investigate that. I cordially invite you: Don't stand in the way, but join us! This will have to do with the fact that we need several negotiating committee dates and several witnesses are inevitable. I guess that's logical. This will not be possible without the local credit without the then board of directors. At FIMBAG, the so-called bank ÖIAG, the subsidiary of the ÖIAG, who manages the billions that are difficult to criticize, right or wrong – the rulers now defend themselves in letters, i.e. the Board of Directors of Wala and Liebscher – all this has to be clarified in the Committee on the Court of Auditors. So once again the invitation: Please clear the way! So far, I expect you to build barricades quietly and secretly. But then we have the next fierce debate here in the house, with certainty! Another issue, if we are already using money efficiently – I know that this is more expenditure-side, or perhaps also revenue-side, at least on taxes, the counter-businesses have always been high on us – and because we have already had it with the Minister of Economic Affairs today: Look, I chose the collection of quotations from 2001 to 2005 – this is a very nice package – where, in particular, the Greens and I, but also the one or the other Members, not only of the opposition, I tell you, not even of the opposition, have said: Something's wrong! It has already built up when the whole type decision was still aimed at the Swedish factory, our argument that this is wrong with the counter-businesses. It's already been clear that then it's weird things happened. Our records have always been partly proven that it never comes out with 200 percent compensation. Never, these counter-actions will not exist! By the way, it didn't exist either. If they exist, they are usually a smear and swindle – i.e. as a testat in the ministry – or if money has actually flown immediately, then it is a lubrication carousel. We're just ahead of the point now. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] So either a counter-business scam or a lubrication carousel! I really don't realize now that the current government is not trying a little bit more to save what can be saved here. Because in the knowledge of the Treaty of then we could get back a lot of money here! That's what you should write on the flags if you want to be the taxpayer of taxpayers. [[towards Federal Minister Dr. Fekter]] [[Abg. Hear: Is she!]] So, beat yourself on the right side, Mrs. Minister! Hit You're on the right side and we'll see that we get the billions back here. It's up to us! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] If you do, we can bury the other: that the opposition has always been right anyway. But in that case we were right, and that is right!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e49315	Next speaker: Mr Krainer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e49336	Mr President. Mr Kogler, I see this as well: With the banks it is 5.8 billion, I think, forecast net loss by the end of 2013. This must, of course, be looked more closely at in Parliament and, of course, counter-businesses. This has to do with the current debate rather on the verge, at least that with the Eurofighter on the verge, but be it on the verge. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Financial Market Questions!]] I would nevertheless like to talk about the whole chapter on finance. I think there is a big challenge: in our tax structure! We say again and again, I think, quite rightly – many, I believe all political groups, that all studies and all investigations say – that the labour factor in Austria is much too high, not only in the international context, but also in relation to the taxation of capital and assets. We can look at this very easily by looking at it: How much money is earned by work in Austria? How much money is earned by capital and wealth in Austria, and who pays what tax in this area? It's relatively simple: Work earns around 60 percent of the cake, I say once, or the total income. There are about 60 percent of those who go to work for their money; 40 percent are capital and wealth income. [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: That's the same speech that we can speak with soon! Sit down and write a new one!]] And if you look at how we take our taxes, it's like more than 85 percent of those who go to work for their money, and not even 15 percent of them are through capital and assets. That means: 60 percent of the cake, but 85 percent of the invoice on the one hand! On the other hand: 40 percent of the cake, but only 15 percent of the bill. This is, of course, an injustice, and this also leads to fewer employees and to many structural problems. [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: Do you really believe... always the same speech?]] The Federal Government has now taken important steps here since this Federal Government took, the taxes and taxes on work have been reduced by about €3 billion by the first and second stages of the tax reform. On the other hand, through bank charges, securities, real estate tax et cetera, we have made sure that more is paid there in about the same amount. These were good, important and right steps, but there are still more missing until we come to a balanced relationship here. That is why I should like to stress once again from my group how important it is to continue to see how we can reduce taxes on work and, on the other hand, simply increase capital taxes and capital taxation, such as by just taxation of millions of heirs, of millions of assets. This is something that we will surely remain attached to social democracy and hope that our coalition partner will also follow us along this path. The second thing I wanted to say in general refers to the orientation of effect. There are a number of resorts that have solved this very well, but there are also a number of resorts that have not yet fully learned to deal with this instrument. I think that it is very, very essential that we Members of this House now also work throughout the accompanying process of budgetary control to ensure that, in the next presence of a federal financial law, all of us are guided by the good offices and that those who have not implemented it so well this year are better implemented that this instrument will also be substantially more effective, that it will become what we all have unanimously decided here, namely, a governance instrument of administration and policy, with which we start much more than thousands of figures. [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: They're here?]] [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: Pick it up! Who are the good ones?]] That was the decision we have taken; it has not yet been implemented to a hundred percent and has not yet met a hundred percent with life. I think it is very, very important that we Members here also pay attention – totally regardless of whether we are in a government group or in an opposition group – that this is going to be better. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e49429	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Widmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e49450	Mr President. High house! Mr Kogler, we from BZÖ are with you: If there have been errors in the Eurofighters, corruption has occurred, then we will solve this together! Investigation committee, whatever, put the cards on the table. [[Abg. May. Kogler: I have the blacks...!]] But I warn you: Let's empty with this... [[New call for tender of the Abg. May. Kogler.]] You also have to think about a step: What happens then? The contract contains: If there has been corruption, then there must also be reversed. Of course, but one thing I do not want: that we also demold the German army. You have to ask yourself the question: What about the airspace defense? [[BZÖ's condolences.]] That is a very correct question to ask. I always have the suspicion with you, ladies and gentlemen of the green greens, that you are actually going to harm the German army. I'm sure there's no such thing as this with us! But now to my colleague Krainer: His speeches on wealth tax are sometimes a bit inflationary. Today, the Taferl left me with him. I've always suspected that the SPÖ is just monotonous to impose the rich tax plate to open the door for further loads. But we already have a burden rate, which is sensational in Europe, of 43.1 percent. There's something you need to do. [[Abg. Dr. Moser went to the government bank and spoke there with Federal Minister Dr. Fekter.]] – Mrs Moser and Mrs Finanzminister, if you could perhaps continue your discussions later! There's one thing I'd like to say: This budget, which we have been discussing in the last three days, is really a messy budget! There are deficits, there are higher taxes, and there are also higher unemployment rates from the data. There are only offensive measures on the paper, but not a real one that will be found in the numbering work. That is why we really want to revive the economy with a proper tax reform. There is the flat tax model, and today there is also a request from the BZÖ; I would like to have it distributed, Mr President. He's already been brought in, and I'm gonna allow him to explain in the core points. The background is that the Wifo makes a gloomy economic forecast for 2013, from 1.3 to a maximum of 1 percent of economic growth. The IHS sees it as similar, falling from 1.7 to 1.3 percent. That means in clear text, the economic engine stutters neatly! That is why we also need a tax relief for the middle class, for the hard-working, for the skilled and for the families, but no tax burden on the government through the back door. Because the Wifo has also calculated that we have an economic growth of 0.25 percent of GDP at 1 billion in redundancies. This corresponds approximately to the size of 4,000 jobs, and this can be seen. In order to ensure that the medium-sized person is already burdened by high taxes, it should also be noted that the euro has caused a loss of purchasing power since its introduction. There are corresponding studies that say: up to 35 percent of purchasing power loss since the introduction of the euro! So, ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ and ÖVP, it is not always possible here, just as today, to let the political salaries up quickly and then cover this with higher loads! That's not the way we want to go. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] We want you to leave political incomes at least the same in times of poor economic data, if not even lower – that would be the right way – and once the middle class that relieves people outside. That is what would be decent and reasonable. For at the same time, it is an adjudication to put in some kind of money or to support Marod States and Pleitelands, who have lost money, because they have no budget discipline, and at the same time to ask our people to pay more for the cash. I can only remind you that banking aid alone in Austria is already € 11.7 billion in payments, that we have taken over € 9.7 billion in liabilities and that the euro rescue will trigger up to € 4.5 billion in cash payments and € 45 billion in liabilities. These are huge sums! You could finance a tax reform three, four, five, ten times if you had done it right here. Mrs Finanzminister! Whatever we want is not always the sulphur: I do a tax relief, a tax reform sometime after the election. – We want this before the election! We also want them to be financed by all the proposals that exist: State/administrative reform, Court of Auditors proposals, aggregation of 22 social security institutions et cetera, et cetera. This brings a volume of up to 15 billion. That is what the Court of Auditors itself says. Therefore, the “fair tax”, which we want, with a tax exemption of € 11 000, is a real relief measure. We also want one to create a single tax and not to pay a wage tax, income tax and social security contributions. This should be covered by a single levy. Then the gross wage would have a tax base of €11 000, which would be taxed at a uniform rate of 39 percent. This is, in fact, a discharge for the citizens, because they would then be asked much less for cash. It would also be easier for the administration, for your Ministry of Finance, for the financial offices; there you could certainly save officials, which could then be used in other important areas. We also want the families to be strengthened. We want you to be able to deposit €9 000 per child in the family association, a real child drop-off instead of difficult aid schemes, which some do not even see anymore and those who need them often do not get at all. We want the so-called Business Tax in the business area. We want a single type of income to be determined here. We currently have incomes from agriculture and forestry, from self-employed work, from commercial enterprises; this could be simplified. We also want a legal form-neutral corporate tax – not made dependent on the legal and social form you have – with generally 25 percent. That would clearly be a corresponding debureaucratisation. We also want to strengthen equity! We want to be particularly supportive of the increasingly important one-person companies accordingly, for example, when they take up employees or when companies continue to train, train and train employees, that they make this much better tax than it is currently taking place. That is, to sum up, things that can be implemented if one wants to bring about a reform of the administration, which brings less bureaucracy and which is certainly more transparent for all than the 500 exceptions in tax law that we still find today. We are still waiting for your proposals, Mrs Finanzminister, and I am eager when they will come. We also want a single tax authority, not on the one hand, the financial office, where social security, where companies are tormented and subject to regular rules and reporting obligations, in some areas almost to death. – Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, that is the request. There is another request that, I think, is important and correct. We want to help you to set a tax and tax rate in the Constitution as well. On the one hand, you have introduced the debt brake, which is correct from the basic point of view, but in real policy you are acting in such a way that you are constantly increasing taxes. Mrs Finanzminister, this is not in agreement! You need a maximum tax rate. The long-distance goal should be: 40 percent and below, but in the medium term, until your debt brake takes place in 2016, we should get down to 42 percent once. That would be a very good and reasonable thing again. Whoever collects more and more taxes ultimately also inhibits consumption, because there is less money available; this also inhibits tax revenue, and this in turn increases debt. Mrs Finanzminister, this is a very simple circular model, which everyone knows about. If you know that, there's only one way: Tax reduction; maximum tax rate and tax rate in this country, because this also brings us forward in competition. I therefore put forward the following motion for a resolution by Mrs Bucher and Mr Magistrate. Widmann: ‘The National Council wants to decide: "The Federal Minister for Finance is invited to submit to the National Council a draft Constitutional Act which sets a maximum permissible tax and tax rate of 42 percent. Furthermore, the Federal Minister is invited to present to the National Council a report on the implementation of the achievement of this purpose.” That means that we need not just a debt brake, Mrs. Finanzminister. We also need a tax brake! This is the right way for this country. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] A last request has not only been mentioned and discussed many times by the BZÖ, but has now also been discussed by the financial representatives of the federal states. I am thinking of the 3rd financial reference conference. October 2012, where a certain Council of State Sobotka, ÖVP, from Lower Austria – is well known – has also proposed finally to create a uniform budgetary right for municipalities and for countries. A uniform basis for you to know exactly: How is the wealth of the countries and the communities? What are the liability? We do not know this until today, and I therefore believe that it would be important to create a single order in this stable – we can almost say – of this financial administration in the local authorities. Allow me the strong word, because it is de facto. I therefore propose the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e49543	The resolution on tax model has been set out in its principles and has also been distributed. The two other motions for resolutions referred to above are also under negotiation. The three applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e49770	Next speaker: Mr Steindl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e49792	Mr President. Estimated Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Today I have heard many times that we have to fix the budgets. We all know that the financial crisis and the economic crisis in 2009 did not go past our budgets without any trace and that they were burdened accordingly. Today, however, almost every chapter of the opposition parties has just assembled that different departments have to accept corresponding expenditure cuts. But how should this work if, on the one hand, we are to achieve a balanced budget, as it is necessary in accordance with the Maastricht criteria, but on the other hand, we are not allowed to reduce expenditure? – This would then only be possible more through the revenue side. In particular, my previous speaker also said how necessary it is that the tax rate should not be further increased, which is already very high at 43.1 percent in international comparison. I would like to make one more point on behalf of my colleague. Krainer: He repeatedly brings the distribution debate to the tapet again and again and again he calls for this asset tax and inheritance tax. All wealth increases are already taxed in Austria – we have said that over and over again – at least with 25 percent, but for example with real estate income we have a tax of up to 50 percent. We know that in Austria we have one of the highest social and transfer performance rates with currently 30.2 percent and spend a total of over €90 billion on social and transfer services. That should also be said. Everything is really done from the redistribution, and we are also in the top European field. In addition, it should be noted that in Austria, 10 percent of taxpayers pay 50 percent of income taxes and 20 percent pay 85 percent of income taxes. I believe that this will be redistributed sufficiently. We should try to create space for our budgets via the expenditure page. This can also be done because appropriate measures by the EIA Finance Ministers and the current EIA Finance Minister were created in advance by strict budgetary discipline, structural reforms, but also by offensive measures in the past. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Thus, after 2011, it is also possible to submit a budget which at least meets the Maastricht criteria from the deficit. Ladies and gentlemen, I have a final amendment which calls for the new budgetary law: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e49970	The amendment is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e50103	Next speaker: Mr Klubobmann Ing. Lugar. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e50125	Mr President. High house! Minister! In the past, they have repeatedly mentioned that we pay so little interest for our government bonds and have reason to reason that our budget is so clean or that we enjoy so much confidence in the financial markets. That's partly true. But let us look a little behind the scenes and see where that comes from, why there are people on the financial markets who accept negative interest rates for two-year government bonds! That is, there are apparently people who bring the money to you and accept that after two years they get less than they borrowed you, and who also take a certain risk. Now many will ask themselves: How is that, how can it be? What's that about? Is confidence so great that people believe that it is more uncertain on the bank where they get at least a quarter of a percent? You give it to you because you keep it so safe? Or how do they imagine that? – In your budget speech, you agreed that it would be exactly the same. Now I can tell you why: This is a purely technical problem in financial markets. There are bond funds that are obliged to invest in government bonds. That is, they have money from their investors and have to invest in government bonds. There are certain rules, and the rules then force them to invest in Austrian government bonds, otherwise they would violate the rules. This very circumstance helps you at the moment and pushes interest rates. I can promise you one: This circumstance that will help you now will probably end next year. If this situation on the financial markets expires, interest rates will again take the level at which they are granted. If you look at how they otherwise behave in their financial conduct, we know that interest has to rise strongly. You have to rise strongly because the interest rates always have a relation to the risk of default. If we look at what we are doing now – ESM, Greece aid and so on – we can see that we also have a short or long risk of failure, including in Austria. Let's take another look at Greece: They have actually given more than 2 billion loans to the Greeks – we do not speak of the liabilities at all. Theoretically, you would have to book these loans. A proper purchase man would do this: He would make these loans because it is impossible for these loans to come back. To illustrate this, a small example: You, Mrs. Finanzminister, make 1 million euros of debt every hour. [[Abg. Amon: But not personally!]] That's quite a lot, but it's still reasonable according to your statements. The Greeks make 10 million new debts per hour. A country that is not much larger and, above all, not much better than we are, makes ten times as many debts as we do. Now explain to me: If we have to save as you always put it – what makes sense – how do the Greeks do that? How are they to repay this if they make ten times as many new debts as we do? - Well, that can't work. So you'd have to theoretically book out these loans to the Greeks, but you wouldn't. Or as far as the ESM is concerned with the liabilities of € 30 billion, which are in the room: This too will ultimately lead us to pay more interest. You can't rest and say: Okay, we pay little interest, there are even institutions that make the money available to us at a zero rate, so to speak. No, no, no, If you want to make a proper budget, you have to look at these dangers in the final analysis, and these are great dangers. I'm not just talking about the ESM. I think everyone knows that this will be a huge problem in the future – and this redistribution that we do, where we evenly divide the debt among all. But what the ECB does is much worse. When the ESM was introduced, I believed it wasn't even worse, but it's worse. The ECB is doing something that is absolutely limited: It buys unlimited government bonds from the Member States, thus distributing the debt to all evenly. Why? – Because we have a risk of liability, also to the ECB. That is, if these government bonds, which are bought – by the Greeks, by the Portuguese, by the Spanish – cannot be repaid, then we must be held liable and paid back in accordance with our share in the ECB. That is, in the end, the ECB is doing something that is expressly prohibited in the Treaties, namely state financing and the distribution of debt to all. This is expressly stated in the contract, which was extranegotiated at the time. Mr Kohl – probably remembering all who wanted this euro – has repeatedly emphasized this with his experts. On the concerns expressed there, he said: No, there is no liability for all other countries, there is no liability, neither for Germany nor for Austria. That's exactly what's going on with feet. If you are looking forward today as a finance minister to low interest rates, you know that this will ultimately be a short joy because interest will rise because our risk will rise. If you continue in this way, we will be in bankruptcy with all the others in Europe. I am therefore saying this so clearly because it is foreseeable. If we share the debts of all the Member States evenly, then we will ultimately all go into bankruptcy together. This cannot be in the sense of a strong Europe that we also want. We want a strong Europe, but this can only work if the rules of the game are complied with. But they will not be observed. The rules of the game mean that everyone looks at his household, as we do here today or at least try. We see that we put a proper budget on our feet, make as few debts as possible. We're also below 3 percent, that's a start. That's exactly what we expect from everyone else. But if they don't, it can't be that we stand up for the debt. But that's exactly what happens, and that's the problem. This is the problem we must address. Another thing about the euro: We are on the one hand for Europe, for a strong Europe as a peace project, but on the other hand we are critical of the euro. [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: What does that mean?]] Not from jux and tollery, the euro would have been basically a good idea, which would also be supported. The problem was that the euro had a birth mistake: There were different countries with different economic performance and above all – which is forgotten again and again – with different trade balances. That's the problem. If a country has a negative trade balance, i.e. imports more than it exports, then the currency automatically devalues. This will encourage exports and dampen imports, i.e. an automatic damping of the problem. That was the case in the past. That was the case with Greece, that was the case with Spain, that was the case with Italy. Whenever the Greeks, the Spaniards, the Italians and as they all call, imported too much and exported too little and thus had a negative trade balance, the currency has therefore moved accordingly, mostly down. In Italy we have experienced this over decades. This made the problem out of the world because of the mechanisms I explained earlier. [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter: at the expense of our export industry!]] - Yes, that may be Mrs. Minister. But what happens now? – In reality, with the euro, we prevent the Greeks from recovering. We are preventing it because we cannot dampen imports with the euro. Normally, the euro should be devalued in Greece and upgraded in Germany, because the Germans export like the world champions. In Germany, the euro would have to be up-to-date and devalued in Greece. What's happening? - Nothing. In other words, exports will not be dampened, and imports into Greece will not be dampened either. This means that the deficits are cemented and the Greeks cannot help. You can't, we need to understand. Talk to the financial experts! They've all understood this. It is now with all due force that the Greeks remain with the euro. Finally, they cannot free themselves from their misery by their own power, and the problems are getting bigger and bigger. This is the background to why Frank Stronach said he wants a strong currency that takes account of these mechanisms. That's why the Greeks have to get out of the euro – it's no different! The Greeks must, in order to help themselves, get out of the euro in order to be able to adapt their currency to national conditions. That's the point. Of course, we can think about a national euro, about a national currency, all that is possible, but ultimately we have to understand if we have a common currency, there are only two possibilities either we have countries that have similar economic areas, which are similar to those of economic performance, of trade balance, then it works – or there are huge problems, and we see that. [[Abg. Hoefinger: One and two!]] – I know that this is crazy, what I'm saying here. In the ECB's TARGET2 system, €1,000 billion of problems have been raised at the moment, which in the end one has to pay. These are compensatory payments paid to Greece, Spain, Portugal and Italy. This is called the TARGET2 system, which is the compensation system between national banks. There have been a total of 1,000 billion. Who's gonna pay for that? Does anyone have an idea about this? Who will pay, what do you think? - Frank can't afford that much. [[Call the FPÖ:Frank Stronach!]] [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: Right?]] Finally, this will be paid by the savers. I can tell you what saver this will be. It will not be the Greek savers. They have a negative saving ratio. Do you know what that means, a negative savings ratio? – That means they spend more than they save. Do you know who has a positive savings ratio? – Austria, Germany, the Finns. What do you think this will pay? Who will make up for these 1,000 billions in the TARGET2 system? – We Austrians, the Germans, the Finns. We will face up to this with our savings deposits if we do not do something in time. I know I'm boring you here today. But I think it is very important in a financial debate when we talk about the budget, about the very important things that concern us all, to talk about the fact that it is in the room that the savings of the Austrians are at risk. It's in the room! [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] It's not a bad idea to talk about it today. You have to imagine that there are very many minimum pensioners in Austria, depending on the fact that their savings are still available in five years. You have to pay to the few hundred euros of pension they get from their savings in order to be able to live at all. Can you imagine what happens when it's gone? But that could happen! I don't want to paint black paint here or anything on the wall, but it could happen if we go on this way. That's not what I'm saying, but that's what international experts say. We have to be very careful not to make mistakes. How many times have we talked about what we can do! It always means that if someone is against the euro or criticised the euro, he is against Europe. Mrs Merkel himself said who is against the euro is against Europe. - That's just not true. We are very much for Europe, it is a very valuable peace project. We are even willing to take money in order to obtain this peace project. Just look at what is happening in Greece! They walk with the hook cross flags walking and cursing Germany. In fact, we divide Europe apart. What we need is a common attitude in Europe, and that is only if we make a proper financial policy and not just force everyone into the euro. We do not ultimately please the Greeks by keeping them absolutely in the euro. If the Greeks want to get out of the euro – they have already said every now and then that this would be an option – then let's leave it! Let's go! Finally, the Greeks have proved in their history that they can deal with such situations. They have proved not only once, but almost the last 200 years that they can. Let's get them out of the euro and finally take their problem into their own hands! In this regard, they have a lot of experience, and that's why we let them do it. One thing to conclude – I know I'm a bit too detailed, but we still have the speaking time, so I take the time –: I believe that these are all very important things that we should simply discuss once unideologically, unscrupulously. If we finally find out that we need a national currency, that we need a North-South euro, that the Greeks are getting out of the euro, then you just have to take note of it. This is not about ideology, it is about how we can make our currency safe, not only for ourselves – I am also interested in having a safe currency – but also for those who have to live from their savings, for the older generation, which is firmly reckoning to have money in a few years. So for all those things, we just have to discuss these things quite unscrupulously here, and I have now tried to do that. I hope that some will still take part in this discussion. And to you, Mrs Minister – I know you are of course concerned with important things – to you, Mrs Minister, so: It would be necessary to include all the risks I have listed to you in the budget in order to create a truly reasonable and, above all, forward-looking budget. That's what people deserve, and that's what we deserve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e50240	Now Mrs. Federal Minister Dr. Fekter is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e50261	Mr President. High house! I assume that this budget will be adopted shortly. This budget is based on reforms and growth initiatives. We want to speed up the reforms so that we can continue to do so in the Triple A Club – and there are no longer many of them in Europe. However, it is necessary that we strengthen the confidence of our markets in the confidence of investors, the confidence of all in Austrian financial, fiscal and budgetary policies. We must therefore implement the necessary reforms. As Minister of Finance, I am aware that I must go ahead as an example. I also need to take appropriate steps in the financial sector, in the financial management sector, to set up the savings fund there and implement reforms. It is therefore clear that, in the financial management breakdown and in the division of federal assets, there is a significant reduction in resources compared with 2012. The payouts fall by around €400 million. That is to say, both in the financial management and in the federal assets, we will do more efficiently than before, for example in the structures. We modernise, we reduce bureaucracy, we renew and offer a service to the people who benefit from the financial management. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! We are among the best in Europe in terms of IT in terms of eGovernment; especially at FinanzOnline or, for example, at the corporate service portal, we have set up IT, which is internationally called Best Practice. This is a service for the citizens they can use at home in front of their computer. They can do all the financial management activities themselves, apply for funding, or, for example, make their employees' incomes. This means that if we offer services to citizens in this respect, we are also slimming and modernising the administration. Over 3 million Austrians and 340 000 companies benefit from the electronic portal FinanzOnline. The official path for which one has had to go to the financial office can be done comfortably from home. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The corporate service portal, managed by the BMF, i.e. the Ministry of Finance, further expands its pioneering role in the eGovernment. We work with the other departments to have a portal for all the federal activities you have in the administrative field – social security, company book, funding, statistics Austria, as well as security police reports et cetera. That saves time and costs. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: There you are no longer bothered by the people!]] In addition, ladies and gentlemen, I am particularly concerned that we are continuing to force the fight against fraud in the tax field. For me: 100 percent use for the honest but also 100 percent use in the fight against organised crime, against black work, against tax fraud, against competition carousel. These frauds are not cavalier crimes, no, they harm the location, they are distorting competition and they discourage the brave taxpayers and harm the tax morale. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Therefore, we have already spent € 106 million with the Financial Police alone this year until the end of September and without Vienna and Lower Austria. These are not tax residues, but these are money from those who do not have a tax number, where we have discovered fraud, where we have discovered suspicions, so we are fighting those who believe they could bypass the tax system in Austria. In the case of car tax NoVA alone, the circumvention was going on and there, even for large corporations that have registered 100 cars and more in the neighbouring country, only to avoid the NoVA. We also caught those, and in the NoVA fraud we have already taken around €50 million fresh this year. [[Congratulations on MEPs from ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, when you hear that more vehicles have been re-registered, but that is not related to the re-purchasing of vehicles, you know: This more in registration has been noVA fraud – or vice versa: It's been talking, and some of them have come up with it themselves, that it doesn't matter if you're illegally logging in to your car abroad to save yourself the NoVA. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! It has already been mentioned today: A lot of money, a lot of tax money, we must also provide for the stabilisation of the financial sector. Some will wonder why we do that. Why do politicians do, why does a finance minister do that that they give banks money? My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! I do this for the Austrians, for their savings, for their account, so that money comes from the banknotes, so that automatic transfers, for example to the energy suppliers, are not stopped so that people in Austria continue to be provided with financial services across the board. We are accompanied by these financial services in everyday life without notice. If this no longer work, we would let the financial sector collapse, if money were no longer out of the banknotes, if one could no longer pay with the credit card in the supermarket, the energy bill would no longer be transferred and then suddenly the electricity would be depleted, no more cash would be available – and this is exactly what we want to prevent. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Here the light would go out!]] We secure the financial sector for the benefit of citizens. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: What inconceivable nonsense! There we all sat in the dark, if there were no fetters, there would be no more current!]] However, we also need to look carefully at the fact that we are taking action in a tax-free manner. We must not allow methods which overburden taxpayers. Therefore, for example, I am in favour of finding a tax-free solution in relation to the capital needs of the Marod banks. The payouts to Hypo Alpe-Adria or to the KA Finance will accompany us for a while. Regrettably, the country of Carinthia has taken over such a horrifying amount of liabilities, namely € 17 billion, which are still outstanding. [[Abg. Bookbooker: 15 billion €!]] That means: If I were to let the hypo go, taxpayers would have to pay for these liabilities, which Carinthia took over, and I do not want to do so immediately. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] And just as we don't drop Carinthia, so we don't drop Greece either. Greece is in the euro zone, and that is why we stand together. We do not want the euro zone to break apart, but we are behind the fact that Greece fulfils its requirements. And that is why, Mr Lugar: It's not right what you've told people here, for example, that the debts have been shared! No, we've given the terms: 300 requirements must meet Greece before it even sees money. And, of course, I am not doing the credits we have granted Greece! I expect them to repay these debts in the long term – I admit – in the long term. If I write them down right now, they'd be lost. I don't want to say that to the taxpayer. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The evaluations of the rating agencies show that Austria is good internationally. I know the opposition is not satisfied with our policy, but international is praised how we are going to stabilise the country, how we consolidate it, how we make sure that we set growth impulses, that we take action, make future investments in universities, in education, in climate issues with thermal rehabilitation. [[Abg. Bucher: Where?]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: All this is cut short!]] This is carefully analyzed internationally, and nevertheless, we have Triple A at Moody’s and Triple A at Fitch with a stable view. I all believe in the international experts more than the propaganda apocalyptics of the opposition. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Since the crisis, we have put in place measures of political nature, have been straining for the financial sector, have chained business packages, implemented a tax reform of €3.5 billion, the purchasing power of people is not at risk, so trade works, it works tourism. The export economy has recovered rapidly, because at the time we have countered short-time work, but it has not been used for a long time. We've set growth impulses. We will now link up a package for SMEs. All this makes us stand there better than all the neighbors around us, and, honking my dear Ladies and gentlemen, this is based on the fact that the Austrians are a powerful, hard-working people, and this is based on our good situation, our prosperity. Thank you to the citizens!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e50436	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Rudas. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e50459	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! That didn't sound like a coalition with the opposition. With my colleague Lugar – I remember my name, thank God – and with his previous speakers I don't quite understand something: I can keep the BZÖ and the Stronach party apart, because the BZÖ has such a button. Maybe the blues can put some button on it, so that we can get a little easier, because we just don't know each other. The representatives of all three parties who once were one, then two and then suddenly three, are still talking the same. [[Numerous calls at FPÖ, BZÖ and Team Stronach.]] I don't know why you even split up. And then I read in the paper that all the parties, who were once one, want to cool up anyway. No one knows each other anymore, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Stefan: You could infect a star!]] The Minister has said – and this part of it I can join – that we Austrians can be proud, despite the unmistakable views of the opposition – a little more differentiated by the Greens – in a country with the lowest unemployment, for example, when we look at what is going on in Spain, where businesses can no longer even open up, mass demonstrations take place, every second youth is unemployed. If you had a bit of patriotism in the blood, ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ, you would also stand out and praise our country and the achievements in our country. Nevertheless, Mr Steindl, my colleague, Mr Krainer, has mentioned this, and we are not tired of repeating it: We need to relieve the labour factor, to relieve real performance providers in our country and to draw more on wealth and wealth growth, because this is especially about the right to benefit. - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e50506	Next speaker: Mr Linder. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e50527	Mr President. Minister! Dear Members! Dear colleagues! Mrs Rudas, we are not surprised at the fact that you do not know each other. We didn't expect that from you either. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Rudas: Please plug a button anyway!]] The citizen knows very well. You might be able to re-train the citizen to make you understand. I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Abg. May. Schickhofer: You just have to watch the Internet! Everything is clearly listed there!]] – Interesting! Then explain to Mr Berger the budget. It was his suggestions that this should happen. You may be more intelligent than he is, but okay: Again, the same thing you don't know. Yes, the new budgetary directives are certainly interesting, offering new opportunities, but I think they are very unclear. However, you have also demonstrated, and I always see this from two differentiated perspectives, that you have a total of very high reserves in the order of €3 billion still from the time before the new budget directives and €15 billion based on the new budget directives. It is certainly good and nice to have deposits. However, in times when we are massively burdening the citizen, putting on the tax screw or burdening the government on the citizen, putting on the tax screw and trying to extort money everywhere, I think whether it really makes sense to leave 18 billion euros without demonstrating what has to be done with it. Mrs Finanzminister! I'm guessing you're gonna use the money for constituency sugars. That is really not good and not right in the present situation. One point on the financial compensatory negotiations: In response to a request, you have pointed out that experts believe that the cost-truth ratio is considered to be worthy of improvement. Minister! It is the reality that these houses are already present. That is why you should simply say quite clearly whether you are willing to continue supporting the rural area and allow this to happen during the financial compensatory negotiations, or whether we should lock up the dislocated areas, explain to the farmers that there is no money for them, because we cannot afford it. I ask you to: Stand to the rural area! Make sure that the communities are also able to obtain these areas. This is what makes the diversity of Austria, and it should be preserved for us.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e50605	The motion for a resolution tabled is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e50697	Next speaker: Mrs Bayr. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e50718	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! It is very gratifying that in the 2013 budget, with the donation of international financial institutions in accordance with IFI's contribution law, the Ministry of Finance's budget also includes truly important and relevant institutions relevant to development policy, which are supported. But, of course, we all know that, apart from financial grants, a coherent policy is also needed for comprehensive development, and this is, of course, also feasible in the field of the Ministry of Finance. [[President Dr. Graf takes over the chairmanship.]] We all know that excessive deregulations and speculations on the raw material markets and bets on food worldwide have led to massive price increases in food. Of course, this concerns the developing countries in most cases. The consequences there are hunger, poverty and, of course, the further dependence in the event of crises – mostly due to climate extreme events – on international donors, which for no one is pleased. Currently, both a Directive and a Regulation on financial instruments for markets and Regulations on OTC derivatives, central counterparties and trade registers are being discussed at European level. There is now, of course, a very, very good opportunity – I suppose that these consultations will be concluded in the coming weeks – to take real action in these areas and to see that on the one hand commodity derivative markets are regulated, on the other hand, limits are also introduced for individual traders who are urgently needed. At the first reading in September, the European Parliament has already decided on such a request and has expressed its support for extending these arrangements to all EU raw materials markets. I very much welcome this step, I think it is very important, but, on the other hand, I believe that we should also take a second step, a further step and cover all transactions at all, i.e. extraordinary transactions. We have decided in the Austrian Parliament, specifically in the Committee on Agriculture, about two years ago a five-party request, where we oppose speculation with food. I believe that this would be two more important steps: firstly, to take in extraordinary trade and, secondly, to decide on limits for each dealer. That would really help. This would be a coherent and strong economic and financial means to combat hunger and poverty in this world. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e50757	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Rossmann. 7 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e50781	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! Yes, if I listen to you, Mrs Minister, then I could believe Austria is what the macro-performance is, the best of all countries. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Austria is not in a bad position – I said that before yesterday – but that does not mean that everything is best in this Republic, especially not with the national banks. [[Congratulation with the Greens]] If you want to look at the financial stability of G’lachenlerln, which reads as follows: We make financial stability and yet money into the national banks so that the banknotes do not go out of the lights!, I have very little understanding of this, Mrs Minister. I have no understanding of this when you call the politicians of the opposition parties a propaganda analyst. [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter: Apocalyptic!]] Excuse me, as an apocalyptic. If I am the propaganda apocalyptic, as you call me, then I would say, Mrs. Minister, you are the propaganda chief of this federal government. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Call the ÖVP:Fundamental Opposition!]] [[Interference of Federal Minister Dr. Fekter.]] - Yes, Mrs. Minister, I'm sorry, but I see it that way. Now I come to some considerations of UG 15 and UG 16, financial management and public charges. A success story is certainly the large-scale audit in Austria, because the additional result achieved by this large-scale audit in Austria in 2011 was €1.2 billion, with federal staff in the order of €467. This large-scale audit can rightly be described as the cashcow of the financial management. Gross earnings per employee are around € 2.6 million. However, I have little understanding that you have permanently reduced the staff status in this situation since the restructuring of the large-scale audit, from 500 in 2009 to 451 in 2012. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: That's really central!]] In particular, I do not understand this because there is no equality of arms between the financial institutions and companies in the final discussions on the undertakings. [[Abg. Gahr: Communists!]] There is usually a financial officer, a financial officer, a maximum of two, facing an armada of tax advisors and business loyals. Mrs. Minister! Set up more people in this area, then we will also be able to achieve more results! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Second point: Where I am with you, Mrs Finanzminister, this is the question of the euro – I have made a brief question; look at the figures, I can provide them to you – and the maintenance of the euro zone. [[Call to the ÖVP: He has no idea!]] The Greens have a very clear attitude. However, Mrs Minister, why did you fail in your contribution to explain to us how you will behave in Brussels next Tuesday? This is where the decision is to continue with Greece. When I read in the newspapers that the funding gap is €32.6 billion and that only a part of it is to be financed, namely only about €13 billion by 2014, I ask you: What instruments will you do with, and what impact will this have on the Republic of Austria? I would therefore ask you to speak again and to tell us, the House, clearly and clearly, what position to take. You will be taking part in the ECOFIN Council on this issue on Tuesday, because this is not entirely irrelevant to the budgetary burden on us. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] You say, Mrs. Minister, that 300 requirements have been imposed on the Greeks. I have read today that the ILO is strongly criticising the measures imposed in Greece. In an audit, the ILO has found that repeated and extensive interventions have taken place in the autonomous wage-finding processes and that there are strong deficits in social dialogues. It calls for these fundamental rights to be applied again in Greece. It can and must not be that the troika is involved in the wage-making processes, which have always been the right of the social partners. That must be done. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Now on the question of financial stability in detail: If Mr Krainer says that what Mr Kogler said had nothing to do with the sub-divisions under negotiation, I do not understand him. The banking package and all that has to do with it is recorded in subheading 46 Financial Market Stability. Yes, Mr Kogler was a bit generous in rounding up from 5,8 to 6 billion €. But it is true that the losses of the national banks are increasing in an hourly period. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Exactly!]] It is true that we are now considering how to finance the capital increase in 2012. 500 million € come directly from the budget. – Adieu! Goodbye! Get out of here! This is paid by taxpayers. But how about this convertible bond worth €1,000 million, € 1 billion? Will EUROSTAT also be as generous as you believe – or will EUROSTAT say that this billion is also included in what the Republic has already lost, because the probability that this billion is lost is very, very high? At the next budgetary notification in spring, we will see what recommendations and decisions EUROSTAT makes on this issue. But the real scandal is that for all these funds the taxpayers must pay. Four years after the pleite of Lehman Brothers, we still have no bank insolvency right. And as long as the banks know that they are always caught up by taxpayers, they will not give up their speculative attitude. [[Abg. Gahr: What are the alternatives?]] We therefore call for a bank insolvency right, which provides that creditors and the owners are also asked to register; Bail-in is called this in the trade jargon. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] You have on my question, when You submit a bank insolvency right, in which a brief request answers that it is currently being worked on, and when the model is finished, it will be presented as a whole model. Since this answer is so insignificant, I would now like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Two rates still applicable to UG 15 public charges: In the outline of this financial management UG 15 you write that a tax system must be fair. I ask you, Mrs Finanzminister: How can a tax system be fair if there is no taxation of assets higher than those we currently have in that country? I therefore believe that a tax system can only be fair if, in Austria, we also have a reformed inheritance and gift tax, which is used to reduce the income tax rates and, secondly, to relieve those people whose incomes are so low that they do not pay any wage and income tax at all, but are very likely to be affected by all the regressive taxes – from the turnover tax through the beverage tax to the tobacco tax. [[Abg. Gahr: You are all Communists!]] I wanted to make a comment on the UG 58, since it was here yesterday or yesterday, I think, Mr. Klubobmann Strache claimed that the interest payments are high. That's right. They are very high with €6.5 billion. But he also claimed that if interest rates double, then interest expenses also double. That is not the case, of course. The FPÖ and Mr Strache would be well advised to study the report of the national debt committee. It can be found that 96 percent of the country's total financial debt has a fixed interest rate. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e50988	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e51046	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Kuzdas. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e51068	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! In the last three days of the budget debate, there have been speeches that would not have been held in the form better, as there was no trace of materiality in many contributions. Power expressions such as “saury ” and “sausty ” have fallen. I believe that this is not all useful to win voters' votes and to increase the reputation of politics in general. Or does anyone believe that? - I don't think so. Rather, I believe that it is an insignificant contribution to the fact that many people turn away from politics. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Eßl.]] If Mr Widmann thinks he can't hear the term rich tax anymore, then I have to say that we actually have a recently rising tax rate, but the all-time high was in 2001 at the smart finance minister Karl-Heinz Grasser with almost 45 percent. It has always been falling since 2007/08, also due to the tax reform, which became effective in 2009. It's only recently that it's rising. Yes, Austria is a high tax country in terms of labour, but not in terms of capital taxes. I can quote an unwarranted witness here, OECD. Income from capital taxes is 0.5 percent of GDP in Austria, 4.2% in the UK and 3.2% in the United States. I add that the number of millionaires in Austria has increased since 2008 during the crisis. Whoever can still claim that we have tax justice or no wrong in the tax system, should get these figures to mind. Austria stands very well in the international comparison. Interest rates show that the measures are effective. We're a triple-a-state. Let's take a look at the tin. in recent years, decades, to: We had to pay interest of 8.7 percent in 1990. We still paid 2.77 percent interest in March and today pay 1.77 percent for ten years of bonds. All this shows that the decisions taken by the Federal Government are effective. There are in reality no alternatives to this budget. It is an important step towards consolidation and zero deficit in 2016. There are also a number of offensive measures in the household, which are equipped with a total of €6.4 billion by 2016. All in all, it is a contribution to ensure that Austria is one of the richest countries in the world in the future. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e51125	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Westenthaler. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e51146	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Mr State Secretary! A few sentences to Mr Rossmann – I don't know if he's still here –: They say so many things in the heat of the fight, and I have never been a representative of the so-called speech and thought police, but have always resisted me. But if it happens before and it almost bothers nobody, then you should be able to say it again: I claim that if a non-greener, for example a politician of the FPÖ or perhaps also of the BZÖ, had demonstrated tax-free here a member of the government called Propaganda boss, this would probably have created a huge excitement, because the term “propaganda chief” is, as we all know, historically proven. [[Abg. Olympians: They were you!]] We all know who was meant to be. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Krainer.]] - I'm just saying it. I do not want to know what would have happened if this had been said by another politician who is not left-wing in this House. Then there would probably have been a great excitement here. [[BZÖ and FPÖ are welcome.]] We know that. I only say this completely worthlessly as a non-representative of the speech and thought police. Now I'm coming to Mrs Fekter. Mrs Minister, what you have done here today is almost inconceivable. I've never heard a final speech like this one in a budget. These were trips to the anthropology you did there, you can almost say. You wanted to make all of us seriously aware today that de facto – I am, of course, overdoing – without your budget the money would no longer be out of the banknote, the electricity would no longer come out of the socket that would remain cold? – Perhaps we would all sit in the window soon, or – if you think about it, Mrs Minister, what Today, you've softened here – we'd all meet with you on the trees again. [[BZÖ and FPÖ are welcome.]] It's such an unfavorable thing that you've given of yourself today. This is actually such a superlative and incredible thing that you can only reject it, Mrs Minister. That's just the way you've done it before. Once again you have completely indifferent – by the way, your predecessor has already done this and has not done very well – Greece simply equated with Carinthia! The Carinthians will thank themselves very much. I say something to you, Mrs Minister: The Carinthias will be on the 3rd. In March 2013 the ÖVP thanked for this comparison between Carinthia and Greece. It is not possible, Mrs Minister, for you to make such comparisons! That's what we're going to reject! This is unheard of and simply not to accept. [[BZÖ and FPÖ are welcome.]] You, Mrs. Minister, stand up and boast how great it is now that you control the NoVA recovery as great as you all catch there and what revenue you have. Mrs. Minister! There would have been a great deal of failure if you stopped with this nova dispassion and finally abolished this tax on the tax, which is uniquely bizarre and unacceptable, and would relieve the drivers. [[BZÖ and Abg. Mayerhofer.]] That would be a task of a responsible Minister of Finance. Then you'd boost the car purchase. Then you would finally relieve the drivers who have been increasingly burdened by your tax increases, the increase in oil tax and all that has been there in recent years. That would be a responsible policy. And now I come to talk about something that fits perfectly well here, since the last chapter of UG 15 is the financial management. That's great because you're boasting about the new budget law. We have set ourselves all the objectives of action. Mrs Minister, these objectives are one ridiculous thing! An average gifted snail jumps over this slat you presented here. These are not objectives, but they are ridiculous and sometimes even scurrencies, Mrs. Minister, and it fits so well into the overall budget, because you boast so well. This is even the very best because it hits the core of the budget. UG 15: Financial management. As an action target, there is the following: ‘Sustainable stability through long-term consolidated public finances for future challenges’. And then – that’s so bizarre, but through each chapter that’s going through – it’s “the goal of action”, and there’s always the question – this sentence is in every chapter –: “What does success look like?” We know, of course, that with this question “What does success look like?” the government is very heavy. This will also be the case for the next election. But in the chapter where you present stable finances for the future, you disagree with the question “What does success look like?” by saying: ‘Iststate 2011’ means: The government debt ratio is “72.4 percent”, and now it comes: ‘Objective 2013’ next year: Record-state debt ratio “75.4 percent”. Mrs Minister, is that the objective of permanently increasing the debt ratio, where you say in terms of effect, you do not want it at all? That's embarrassing! You must note that no one understands this anymore if you make yourself here and talk about consolidated finances all the time, and that we are not making new debts – and then you will have the goal of the highest debt in this Republic next year! This is a scandal, Mrs. Minister! That's really terrible. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] This is not a budget, as we imagine it, and it is not an example either. You said today you wanted to be a model, but: Is it an example to keep making more debts? – It is really incredible what you think of us here! And now there's something else to scurry about, because that should be too. Sometimes we do not know, especially the Ministry of Finance, how to apply these objectives in a reasonable way. There will be even the funniest things if it isn't so sad. That's something for the Villacher Fasching, which you write in some of them. For example, this is about pensions, UG 23 – it is not ASVG, but about civil servants' pensions, Mr Neugebauer knows that. And now you have to use violence, because it is so predetermined, to define targets for action. And now it's coming. What can one really define for an effective purpose in pensions? Now it's gonna be exciting. Do you know what the goal is? – The objective of action is: ‘The BMF shall ensure that rest and care benefits as well as care benefits can be paid on a timely basis and to the full extent.’ - Great! That's the goal of action. And what does the success look like? – The success is that pensions are paid out. – There is a law that has to be paid out, only for memory. So what's the success? – The Ministry of Finance shall issue the notice responsible for disbursing to the recipient. – This is the success! Now just. You have to make the pensions, you have to make the money available, you have to pay it out. It's crazy what's inside. And that's how it goes over pages. For example, in the case of effect target 2: “The BMF strengthens the trust of officials in the legal application of pension provisions”. You strengthen confidence in the law, write in there! And what does the success look like? – ‘The notices shall be adopted in accordance with procedural rules in due time.’ So the success looks like this: They comply with the law. - It's progress, wonderful. The aim is to: We have laws that we need to comply with. – What does the success look like? - We'll stick to it. Wonderful! So you can't be serious about what you're writing in there! It's for crumbling and actually not to take seriously anymore. If you want to draw a lesson from it, the next time is really different. Take corridors and no more “targets ” like the Minister of the Interior, do something else! But what you put on the table here is actually not quite serious to take anymore. This budget is not what it should be. The objectives of action are not the ones in there, but the objectives of action are quite different. The effect of this budget, and thus the objectives you really have, are: higher debt, higher taxes, more taxes, less money for people, less purchasing power, less investment. These are your real goals: Technocracies, superficialness and bureaucracy instead of discharges, reform and red tape. This is with one word your budget. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] You can do that – do you know where? – Pick up somewhere in your office, but the Austrians can't get excited with it.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e51239	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e51260	Mr President. Estimated government members! Ladies and gentlemen! A few comments on sub-group 44. The 2013 budget provides that municipalities can expect about €8.9 billion on the path of income. Since the profit portions were very positively represented by a previous speaker, then, I must say, there is certainly another truth. It is true that the share of income in the trend is rising. However, if we counter inflation and, above all, the substantial extra costs, additional expenditure imposed on the municipalities, then the picture and the share of income will change. This is, in itself, a dangerous development, because not only does the Federal Budget largely live on the revenue from employment. It will also take the strength of municipalities, which are still public investors of 60 percent, that they can be a lifeline for the regional economy and regional employment. Not to be overlooked is the fact that the communities are sitting on a huge debt mountain. 12 billion – rising trend. And we also know that we are moving towards a high interest rate phase, as we have already experienced. This will mean that the communities will no longer be able to carry out their tasks and that some will probably have to fight for survival. Therefore, we are aware of this development that we are opposed. We have the opportunity to do so in different ways. We can help quickly and effectively if we take the lid out of the financial compensation law by means of the basic tax. And I also believe that it would be useful to allocate the proportion of the municipalities in the Community tax duties directly to them. This would also contribute to administrative reform at the same time. To whom it is therefore important that in the future regional economy and regional employment should also work, to whom it is important that the Federal Budget should continue to have appropriate room for action in the future, it will have to respond today. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, we have it in our hands.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e51298	Next speaker: Mrs Kaufmann-Bruckberger. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e51319	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! I do not want to address all the impact targets that have been mentioned, but I would like to highlight an important part, namely that you are planning to draw up a 30-year budget prognosis, Mrs Federal Minister. And I'm saying that's really desirable. The situation in the European crisis states is as follows: The economic structures collapse, high unemployment, dramatically rising taxes, and less and less money to live. If one still reads statements such as, for example, the Euro countries are not yet above the mountain, it goes upward, then one can see it goes upward, and the debt in Europe goes upward. If then, Commissioner Rehn says that there is already a return to normality, then I must say that the reports we are getting from Spain, Italy, Greece and Portugal seem to be not voting. Perhaps some newspapers have still worked Alfred Hitchcock as a Ghostwriter. The Spanish Prime Minister says it looks gloomy in his country. King Juan Carlos says that hard times are coming. The Portuguese Prime Minister speaks of a nightmare. Italy is in debt, Greece is already in bankruptcy. If that is normality, I think we have a big problem in Europe. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] But back to Austria, Mrs. Finanzminister. I repeat now, but you really surprised us. The business model, the Greek aid, a good business in which Austria will earn well, I have to say that the surprise is still in our bones today. After the meeting of the EU Finance Ministers this month, they said that the ECB had agreed that profits resulting from the restructuring of the Greek Confederation would be distributed to the national banks. They have said that this is a large volume of several hundred million and that it is equivalent to only 1.5 million interest losses for Austria. We simply want to hope that Greece will not be the barrel without soil and that then there will be no bankruptcy toll. If Greece really does make the euro exit, then we have a medium-term problem, then we have to assume €3.11 billion in liabilities. We must not forget, however, the involvement of OeNB in the European Central Bank. If the Target2 commitments or the bond program, the Securities Markets Programmes, are to be completely omitted, then the OeNB must transfer about 3 billion to Frankfurt to cover equity. I mean, we're right there. Mrs Finanzminister, if you have just said that you do not drop Greece, I would like to quote an article: EU wants to give Athens money. Greece is apparently no longer to be saved with the funds originally planned by the EU. At present, within the euro area, a debate is already to be held on the issue of giving Athens billions of euros. Now is the moment when governments should honestly tell their citizens that part of the tax money used to receive the euro zone must be written down, the “South German newspaper” quotes a negotiator. – So much for the “good” business. This business, I told you, is still in the bones. But I think it would be useful simply to include these considerations in the forecast budget. Another goal of effect you have addressed: The banks that have received participation capital are expected to pay dividends. I hope that's been negotiated. The planned repayments – and I have already said that in the last few days – of some 800 million have so far been avoided. That even more money has to be spent on the local banks, you know that and you read it daily in the newspapers. A good approach is that you want to reduce the income difference between men and women. It would be better to equalise: Equal pay for equal work, which should be of course. If you say that the entrance tax rate is too high, I fully agree with you. Austria has the second highest import tax rate of all OECD countries, which is 36.5 percent. We do not need to worry about party funding, which you have increased by 61 percent, but in return, we do not give the Court of Auditors the power to review the records of party finances. I believe that in times like this, it is after a reform of the party funding law, and I hope that my clubman Robert Lugar's request will find a broad majority on the withdrawal of the increase in party funding. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] In your forecast budget, however, you should not forget the payments made to the EU. As it now looks – and I have already said that – Austria is getting a free letter from the EU to receive a further €45 billion in the years to 2020. - So much for the debt brake. And then don't forget the European debt union, the ESM or the Mega Bath bank. The reforms in Italy are staggering, the Italian economy slides into recession. The government debt ratio is still 123.5 percent and the ratio is expected to increase to 135 percent this year. I do not want to talk about the government bonds in the volume of €487 billion that will expire at the end of 2014. But there too the lifeguard will have to jump in. You, Mrs. Federal Minister, have also confirmed that Spain will receive 100 billion from the rescue shield. The Brussels Centre for European Policy Studies also believes that the Spanish banks will face losses of up to 360 billion. Back to Greece. The EU Commission has already calculated that 380 billion have so far been transferred to Greece. Commission President Barroso believes that the aid amounts to 177 percent of GDP. We now know that Greece will need further resources. The tragedy is that of the 11.3 million Greeks, two thirds live below the poverty line. That is to say, the money has only been made available to the banks and not to the Greeks for economic development. And this, Mrs. Federal Minister, also supports you. But I would ask you now also with regard to the forecasting budget: How is Italy supposed to pay the share of around 14.5 billion and guarantee the further provision of 111 billion? How is Spain supposed to pay its share of 9.5 billion and guarantee further provision of 73 billion as the ESM provides? – But perhaps by the entry into force of Article 25 of the ESM Treaty. This is: ‘If an ESM member fails to make the deposit required due to a capital call, all ESM members shall receive a revised raised capital call.’ – And that's what the Austrians have to pay for. According to a German report, it is assumed that by the end of 2013 and 2014 the loans will amount to incredible 1,198 billion. It has also been calculated that it is necessary to raise another 300 billion to serve the current deficits. That means we're talking about a total of € 1,500 billion. And this €1500 billion is up against 700 billion. An increase is therefore inevitable, and the Austrian taxpayer will have to reinvigorate. The Austrian taxpayer will have to send a lot of money to Brussels or Luxembourg in the future. And I would add that to the forecast budget. Mrs. Federal Minister, since today Austrian media have been calling out the financial crisis. The financial crisis has completely covered Austria, it is said. According to Wifo, Austria, like the euro zone already, has fallen into recession: declining economic growth, unexpected price increases of 2.8 percent, higher than in the entire euro zone, unexplainable rental price increases of 3.9 percent, car driver scrapping due to high fuel costs, rising unemployment and rising heating costs for falling subsidies. And you, Mrs. Federal Minister, are heating up our money in Brussels and Luxembourg. Mrs Bundesminister, concluded: Explain to the Austrians why you have presented a budget of the standstill for 2013 and do not forget to mention that this money we need for the people of our country, namely for health, for education, for families, for the economic location of Austria, but also to reduce and reduce poverty in this country, explain to the people in this country why you prefer to pay the EU Moloch Europe. In a personal matter – and this is also a concern for us today –: We would like to express our thanks to the employees in all departments of the House, because what they have done in the last four days is quite unimaginable. That should also be said. Again: thanks to the employees of the High House!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e51456	Next speaker: Mr Kirchgatterer. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e51478	Mr President. Values Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! According to my previous speaker, it is important, I believe, that we tell the Austrians what objectives, which priorities are pursued with the budget. These are work, employment, education and training, because unemployment means a personally difficult situation, personal suffering, but is also the most expensive for the state and for society. Ladies and gentlemen! Another objective is the budgetary discipline needed. The new budgetary law has been mentioned very positively by all experts in expert hearing. The federal states are tending. The individual posts are not yet comparable in the federal states, and many responsible and representatives of the cities and communities say – and rightly so – that it would be good if they were also sitting at the table at the federal financial compensatory negotiations, because they are often not treated very well by the countries. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I would like to highlight one point because it is also important for the assessment of these two weeks – the one week in the Committee, the second week here in plenary: What is the concept of the opposition? [[Call:The best]] I have not been able to see – in the case of no opposition party – that it has a consistent concept, because on the one hand you demand more expenditure and on the other hand you demand radical savings. [[Abg. May. Widmann: Read applications!]] [[Abg. May. Widmann: Read applications!]] That doesn't fit, that's not a concept! They have to reach an agreement in their own ranks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e51557	Next speaker: Mr Herbert. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e51579	Mr President. Gentlemen on the government bank! At the beginning of my speech, allow me a brief replica towards social democracy and the previous speakers. Mr Kuzdas, I am entirely with you: In fact, there was one person or another who, in his speech, did not seem to be a matter of fact in his contribution to the debate, but one that was most embarrassing here was the colleague Rudas. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You know, Mrs Colleague, there has already been a majority group in the recent history of this republic, which has required other political parties, but also a certain population group, to bear badges – you have just spoken of a “button”. But I think this is so ungustical because it is not yours and your group does not have the right to defame others with such a disgusting comparison here, to brand them and to produce the images of an old, long-time, which we all do not want to have again. [[Abg. May. Rudas: Please?]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Rudas:... need to think for 30 minutes?]] But now to my actual debate contribution: I know that time has progressed, but I would still like to confront you with an important topic at the end of this long day and ask you to focus your attention on this, namely the development of pensions in the public service. We know that there is a wave of pensions in the public service in the next few years, and a professional group is particularly affected because it has a particularly large impact on them. This is the executive, where in the coming years – by 2020 – around 10,000 people will retire, 35 percent of the current workforce, and there are no anti-regulatory compensation measures so far, which is why we are going to be heading for a special class personal security collapse. These figures can be found in a report from the Federal Chancellery of the Federal Republic of Germany from 2007, entitled “The Federal Staff’s Age Structure”, with pension development in the individual areas. [[The speaker keeps a convoluted convolute up]] That is to say, it is not a fiction of my group or of my group, but a sad reality, because it has so far completely disregarded this federal government, to counter it and to ensure the security of the Republic, but also the security of our people in the future. I should therefore like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is not five to twelve, but it is scarceer before twelve! I think that if we do not take rapid measures to ensure public security on the one hand, but also to maintain a menace to the executive, then we really have a big problem to maintain security in our country. Those who feel it first and foremost, that is our population, but these are also our executive staff, who, despite these poor conditions, are already in the hands of the people, the already existing equipment shortages, the downgraded departments and, although they find little support in the Federal Government, provide an excellent service. We should not deny you this important, forward-looking measure, and I can therefore invite you to support it. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e51667	The application submitted is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e51754	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Matznetter. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e51775	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Federal Minister! The rest is still negotiating with the lead minister. Mr State Secretary, many outside said in conversation that this time the budget negotiations were actually very quiet, many also said they were fad. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dolinschek]] – This is actually the best compliment that can be made for the Federal Minister and her State Secretary. [[Abg. Dr. Glawischnig-Piesczek: (on a group around Federal Minister Dr. Fekter pointing next to the government bank) Denen is not fad right now!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein.]] If, in times like this, in the fifth year of the severest financial crisis since the 1930s, a proper budget has been put forward, one that ensures that Austria remains at the top of unemployment, in times of Europe's recession, in turn, there can be a slight growth path, that infrastructure investments remain, that the important areas of the future will receive research, education and infrastructure sufficient resources, then this is a good budget, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: I don't think so!]] [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] With regard to the matt things coming from the opposition, several have already pointed out that there are not even alternative proposals inside. I mean, Mr Westenthaler used the word "scurrile" in his speech 20 times, then I have stopped counting, but the only concrete proposal you have made is particularly bizarre, because if I force perpetrators, as the Federal Minister correctly described, to pay their taxes with the financial police, your proposal is: [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler:... every second side looks dazzling!]] Well, let's get the tax up! That's scurry, Mr. Ing. Westenthaler! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Cancel NoVA!]] That I say where there are perpetrators: Well, then, let us take up the tax immediately! That is not to be surpassed, Mr President, because you will find tax evasions everywhere! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: No one needs the NoVA! No human needs nova!]] And next time people steal something, you'll say, Well, let's give it here for free so that no one can steal any more! – These are inseparable proposals! [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Widmann.]] The Federal Government has presented an overall budget, which, above all, also holds the balance between revenue and expenditure within a reasonable framework. [[Abg. May. Widmann: Reading makes you happy!]] With this budget, we will fully fulfil the planned deficit reduction from the crisis years since 2009. Yes, it also has great problems to finance, including the financing of banking problems. But there too, Mr. Ing. Westenthaler, be written to you in the main book as far as the Carinthian voters are concerned. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: I didn't tell you my point of view!]] – The Carinthian voters can't do anything for the politics of your equal! It was not the Carinthian population who had accumulated there the billions who wanted to celebrate every event and who went through the money of taxpayers, as if there were no morning! It was your predecessor, it was the BZÖ head of state! Now stop stealing from responsibility! [[Congratulations with SPÖ, ÖVP and Greens.]] It's the politicians, like they're still sitting here today, not the Carinthians! These are the first victims of this policy! [[Interlocutory calls from Deputies Dolinschek and Ursula Haubner.]] In this sense, I look forward to the country election, so that the faces may no longer be able to smile down so shamelessly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e51961	Next speaker: Deputy Grazauer. 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e51982	Mr President. High house! As the last speaker of our group, I would also like to thank my group after ten days of budgetary negotiations: The staff of the Parliamentary Directorate, the staff of the clubs have done an excellent job. – Thank you many times! [[Congratulations with FPÖ, SPÖ, ÖVP, Greens and Team Stronach.]] But I also thank Mr Gerhard Steger of the Ministry of Finance. He presented documents on the basis of the new budgetary law, which was certainly a huge effort. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Above all, the goals of action!]] They are to be reworked in general, so I have asked my colleagues in the budget to sit down soon to talk about what went well on these ten days, which has gone less well where you could add something where you could make things more exciting. . I have positive feedback, as Mr Auer also said, on 19 February. We have time for this on December. That's what we should do! I think that is certainly necessary in order to get even better. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, so that it will not be forgotten: The budget – the 2013 budget – has a deficit of €6.7 billion. We hold total debt in the state of Austria of € 235 billion, which is the highest debt Austria has ever had – an absolute negative record. The tax rate is 43.1 per cent – also record – and the total debt, if you calculate everything that is still available in the outsourced area, amounts to € 290 billion. The youth presses the debt backpack of €33,000 per person. What I noticed – I would like to draw a little summation about what happened these ten days – is the following: The federal states are increasingly involved in the revenue, and we must be careful that this does not hinder the restructuring of the state. We have heard that Austria is sinking into the rankings – colleagues Themessl and Podgorica have reported about it. There are no long-term future plans. A real budget consolidation seems to be a foreign word for this government. The coalition of SPÖ and ÖVP has arrived at the end of its creative capacity in terms of content, personnel and working methods. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Höfinger and Mr Amon.]] It is only a matter of agreement, ladies and gentlemen, when it comes to taxing the taxpayer. This is a merciless step into the pockets of our taxpayers. To remain in power, I believe that this coalition is more important than serving people – I remember the strangling of the investigation committee. The foreign exchange is: In any doubt, the taxpayer is taxed, for example in the Federal Liabilities: From 2006 to today, these have increased by 60 percent. We are currently at € 122 billion in liabilities for which the taxpayer is currently on the straight line. This is 38 percent of the gross domestic product. Compare this with Germany! The Germans have only 3 percent of the liability that the taxpayer has to cover. You have to think about whether it's good to be straight for everything right now. [[President Mag. Prammer is taking over the presidency again.]] Unfortunately, the big, sustainable reforms, as they have made Sweden and Switzerland, do not exist in Austria until today. Swiss and Swedish debt is about 35 percent of GDP. Next point: poor management in the stabilisation of the banking sector. The taxpayer was misrepresented by the government. I'm not surprised, however, because the Raiffeisen acted as an advisor. [[Ironic cheerfulness and call of the coffin. Hornek.]] The Court of Auditors has been suspended here: The monitoring of the Court of Auditors in the banking question was rejected, not approved. Hypo Alpe-Adria, Volksbanken and the municipal credit cost taxpayers a fortune due to negligent supervision. The taxpayer is therefore the carrier of all the risks in this State: Public debt, liabilities, public debt, public debt, ASFINAG, banks, ESM, Greece, target liabilities – for all these measures, the taxpayer must be correct. And here, ladies and gentlemen, I say that Parliament is making a mistake: Parliament is abandoning the taxpayer in these points. There is, as it were, a full-scale mentality: If it doesn't work, it's meaty anyway, the taxpayer assumes the responsibility anyway. This is a dangerous development, which is still being spoken of in terms of how we have heard again today. Economics, the Federal Farmers' Federation, trade unions and national leaders use Parliament to secure their own power. They obviously don't care about the state. Parliament will become a voting machine for the purpose. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The result is debt, debt, debt – a game of mourning. I hope the voters will soon put an end to this drive. [[New welcome to the FPÖ.]] But I do not want to end up negatively, I would also like to say something positive: There is God thanks to sufficient savings potential – enough! – who, when we lift them, succeeds in getting the state back on fire. And we're going to do this by the FPÖ with our HC strache. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e52059	There are no more words. The debate is closed. There is no final word on the part of the reporting. [[19:57:20]] We shall now proceed to the votes. We will need some time to do this, and therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to ask for the appropriate attention at the outset. We shall proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. Firstly, we shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 1: Draft federal law, which amends the Federal Financial Framework Act 2013 to 2016, together with the title and receipt in 1998 of the Supplements. I am looking for a sign for those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to this. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, agree to do so, to give a sign. – In turn, this is the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall proceed to the vote on item 2 : Federal Finance Act 2013 together with investments. On Annex I, there is a request for separate vote by Mr Mag. Stefan before. There is a amendment tabled by Mr Jakob Auer, Mr Krainer, on Appendix III. Therefore, I will first vote on the parts of the bill in the order of Appendices I to IV and, finally, on the text of the Federal Finance Act 2013 concerning the amendment and the request for separate vote. I shall put to the vote the motions for resolutions tabled to the draft Federal Finance Act 2013 and the amendments to it following the third reading in the order of submission. Appendix I Federal estimates 2013: We therefore proceed to a separate vote on the division 02 Federal legislation of Appendix I Federal Proposal 2013 as amended by the Government template. I ask those ladies and gentlemen of the House who give their consent to this, to give a sign. – That is unanimous... – This is accepted by the majority. [[Calls:No]] I shall now vote on the remaining parts of Appendix I, which have not yet been voted on, including general overviews, Appendices I.a to I.e., in 1910 of the Supplements to the Committee's report in 1999. Whoever gives his consent, I ask him for a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. Annex II Federal staff who provides for third parties – gross representation 2013: We arrive at the vote on Annex II to the Federal Staff for third parties – gross representation 2013 in the version of the Government template. I'm looking for a sign when I'm agreed. – This is accepted by a majority. Annex III Financing, foreign exchange contracts – Gross presentation 2013: We shall now proceed to the vote on the amendment tabled by Mr Jakob Auer, Mr Krainer, colleagues on Appendix III. If you agree to these amendments, I would ask for a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall vote on the remaining parts of Annex III financing, exchange of currencies – gross representation in 2013 as amended by the Government template. I'm looking for a sign when I'm agreed. – This is accepted by a majority. Appendix IV – 2013 personnel plan: The vote will be taken on Appendix IV Staff Plan 2013 as amended by the Government template. Whoever gives his consent, I ask him for a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. Finally, we come to the vote on the text of the Federal Financial Act 2013, together with the title and receipt in 1910 of the Supplements as amended by the Committee's report in 1999. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this. – This is accepted by a majority. This concludes the second reading on the Federal Finance Act 2013 together with investments. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a similar sign. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We now proceed to a series of votes on the resolutions submitted to the Federal Finance Act 2013 and the amendments to the Annex. I would also like to say that the rapporteur, Mr Ing. Westenthaler's motion for a resolution concerning the introduction of the daily turn-hour (Annex 2/19 EA) was properly withdrawn as a six-party request was tabled for this purpose. Motion for a resolution by Mrs Ing. Lugar, colleagues, with regard to the withdrawal of the increase in party funding from €2.41 to €4.60 per eligible person (Annex 2/1 EA). Whoever gives his consent, I ask him for a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. Motion for a resolution by Mr Josef Bucher, colleagues, on: Enoughly paid – no EU contribution increases for Austria! (Annex 2/2 EA). Whoever gives his consent, I ask him for a sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. Motion for a resolution by Mr Magnette. Stefan, colleagues on the extension of the public prosecutor's control rights (Annex 2/3 EA). Whoever gives his consent, I ask him for a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. Motion for a resolution by Mr Zanger, colleagues, on budgetary increase and support for administrative activities in the field of § 1 BVG Media Cooperation and Media Promotion (BVGMedKF-T) for the Court of Auditors (Annex 2/4 EA). Whoever gives his consent, I ask him for a sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. Motion for a resolution by Mr Gartelgruber, colleagues, on the provision of funds for measures to combat the rural escape of young women (Annex 2/5 EA). Whoever gives his consent, I ask him for a sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. Motion for a resolution by Mr Magnette. On-site, ladies and gentlemen, on non-respect of funds for gender studies in the budget 2013 (Annex 2/6 EA). Whoever gives his consent, I ask him for a sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. Motion for a resolution by Mrs Ing. Westenthaler, colleagues and colleagues on the abolition of differentiation in the Criminal Code between “Sexual Abuse of Unmistakables” and “Serious Sexual Abuse of Unmistakables” (Annex 2/7 EA). Whoever gives his consent, I ask him for a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. Motion for a resolution by Mr Lausch, colleagues, on increasing the planning posts for executives in the judicial service (Annex 2/8 EA). Whoever gives his consent, I ask him for a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. Motion for a resolution by Dr Johannes Hübner, Members of Parliament, on savings measures in the field of foreign policy (Annex 2/9 EA). Whoever gives his consent, I ask him for a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. Motion for a resolution by Mrs Werner Neubauer, colleagues on the safeguarding of South Tyrol financial resources and the protection of South Tyrol's rights (Annex 2/10 EA). Whoever gives his consent, I ask him for a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. Motion for a resolution by Mr Gerhard Huber, Members of Parliament, on "Increasing the efficiency of development cooperation" (Annex 2/11 EA). Whoever gives his consent, I ask him for a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. Motion for a resolution by Mr Bayer, Mr Glaser, Mr Mag. Schwentner, Kaufmann-Bruckberger, colleagues on the increase in the budget for development cooperation (Annex 2/12 EA). Whoever gives the support, I ask him for a sign. - That's the majority. This request was accepted. (E 274.) Motion for a resolution by Mr Vilimsky, colleagues on discharge and motivating measures for executives (Annex 2/13 EA). Whoever gives his consent, I ask him for a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. motion for a resolution by Mrs Hagen, colleagues, on the improvement of the situation of executives by means of a separate executive duty (Annex 2/14 EA). Whoever gives his consent, I ask him for a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. Motion for a resolution by Mr WindbüchlerSouschill, Members of Parliament, on safeguarding memorial, social and peace services and opening up for men and women (Annex 2/15 EA). I'm looking for a sign when I'm agreed. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. motion for a resolution by Mr Mayerhofer, Members of Parliament, on the exclusion of NGOs from the asylum procedure and the use of funds for security tasks (Annex 2/16 EA). Who is for this, I ask him for a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. Motion for a resolution by Mrs Pilz, Members of Parliament, on claims for damages from the Republic against Eurofighter (Annex 2/17 EA). Whoever gives his consent, I ask him for a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Dr. Strutz, colleagues, on the failure of confidence towards the Federal Minister for Defence and Sport in accordance with Rule 74. 1 of the Federal Constitutional Act (Annex 2/18 EA). In view of the fact that such a decision is taken by the National Council in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this paragraph. I expressly note the presence of half of the Members of Parliament in the terms of the Constitution quoted above. I ask the Ladies and gentlemen, who are voting in favour of the motion for a reluctance to accept it. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. Motion for a resolution by Mr Markowitz, colleague and colleagues on the annual promotion of the sport of disabled persons by the Austrian lotteries (Annex 2/20 EA). Whoever stands up for it, I ask him for a sign. – That's the minority. The application is rejected. Motion for a resolution by Mrs Fichtenbauer, Members of Parliament, on the suspension of all plans until the adoption of the security strategy (Annex 2/21 EA). Whoever gives his consent, I ask him for a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. Motion for a resolution by Mr Kunasek, colleagues, on a reduction in the basic support of the ÖBSV (Annex 2/22 EA). I ask for a sign if I agree. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. Motion for a resolution by Mrs Ing. Courts, colleagues and colleagues on the provision of resources for the automatic annual adjustment of care allowances to inflation (Annex 2/23 EA). Who is for this, I ask him for a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. Motion for a resolution by Mrs Ing. Courts, colleagues and colleagues on the provision of resources for the automatic annual adjustment of allowances for disabled persons (Annex 2/24 EA). Whoever gives his consent, I ask him for a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. Motion for a resolution by Mrs Ing. Courts of Justice, colleagues and colleagues on the provision of funds for a subsidy amounting to VAT on the acquisition of motor vehicles by disabled persons (Annex 2/25 EA). Whoever gives his consent, I ask him for a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. Motion for a resolution by Mrs Ing. Courts, colleagues and colleagues on the provision of unabated mobility aid (Annex 2/26 EA). Whoever gives his consent, I ask him for a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. Motion for a resolution by Mr Dr. BelakovichJenewein, ladies and gentlemen, on the provision of funds to cover the costs of the exam (Annex 2/27 EA). Whoever agrees, I ask for a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. Motion for a resolution by Mr Ursula Haubner, colleague and colleagues on the removal of the financial disadvantages of the 2013 pension adjustment for pensions up to the maximum pension (Annex 2/28 EA). Whoever gives his consent, I ask him for a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. Motion for a resolution by Members Werner Neubauer, colleagues with regard to the provision of funds for a pension adjustment 2013 at the pensioner price index (Annex 2/29 EA). Whoever gives his consent, I ask him for a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. Motion for a resolution by Mr Dr Karlsböck, Members of Parliament, on the provision of funds for the further development of the mother-child passport (Annex 2/30 EA). Whoever gives his consent, I ask him for a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. Motion for a resolution by Mr Ursula Haubner, colleague and colleagues on the introduction of a health bonus (Annex 2/31 EA). Whoever stands up for it, I ask him for a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. Motion for a resolution by Mr KaufmannBruckberger, colleague and colleagues on Austrian social security – a powerful company (Annex 2/32 EA). Whoever gives his consent, I ask him for a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. Motion for a resolution by Mr Vock, colleagues, on the full tax deductibility of donations for animal and environmental protection (Annex 2/33 EA). Whoever gives his consent, I ask him for a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. Motion for a resolution by Dr. Rosenkranz, colleagues on the budgeting of the Federal Institute for Education Research, Innovation & Development of the Austrian Schools (BIFIE) 2013 (Annex 2/34 EA). Whoever gives his consent, I ask him for a sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. Motion for a resolution by Dr Rosenkranz, colleagues on justice for all school types – more budget also for the AHS (Annex 2/35 EA). Whoever gives his consent, I ask him for a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e52472	Motion for a resolution by Mr Rosenkranz, Members of Parliament, on: Link family allowance and child benefit to German skills. I'm asking for a supportive sign. – The request is rejected. Motion for a resolution by Mr Magnette. Inlands, ladies and gentlemen, on the introduction of a subsidy transparency database in the fields of art & culture. Your signs, please. – The application does not find a majority and is rejected. Resolution tabled by Mr Krist, Jewellery, Mr Kunasek, Mr Dieter Brosz, Mr Ing. Westenthaler, Ing. Robert Lugar, colleagues on daily movement. I ask those Members who support it to be a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. (E 275.) [[General condolences.]] Motion for a resolution by Mr Graf, colleagues, on the principle of the country of origin. I ask for an acceptable sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. Motion for a resolution by Mr Graf, colleagues, on the annual valorisation of the study aid and the annual valorization of the amount of the grant. I'm asking for your sign. – The application does not find a majority and is rejected. The motion for a resolution by Mr Dolinschek, colleagues, on the rapid reform of the penalty and the implementation of a kilometre-dependent bill with a negative tax effect on the discharge of commuters. Whoever supports this, I ask him for a sign. – That's the minority. The application is rejected. Motion for a resolution by Mr Dipl.-Ing. Deimek, colleagues on the introduction of an Austrian ticket. I'm asking for your sign. – The application does not find a majority and is rejected. Motion for a resolution by Mr Dipl.-Ing. Deimek, colleagues on budgetary planning in the research sector. Your vote, please. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. Motion for a resolution by Dr. Lichtenecker, Members of Parliament, on the submission of a research funding law and the closure of the funding gap in millions for the implementation of the FTI Strategy. Whoever stands up for it, I ask him for a sign. - That's not the majority. The application is rejected. Motion for a resolution by Mrs Lichtenecker, Members of Parliament, on no cancellation of the Graz-Vienna evening train. Whoever supports this, I ask him for a sign. - That's not the majority. The application is rejected. Motion for a resolution by Mr Gartelgruber, colleagues, on the establishment of a passenger transport stop at Terminal Wörgl West. Whoever supports this, I ask him for a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. Motion for a resolution by Mr Gartelgruber, colleagues, on the scheduled holding of all ÖBB-Premium-RailJet trains in Wörgl. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. Motion for a resolution by Mr Kitzmüller, Members of Parliament, on the valorization of family allowances and child care allowances. Who supports this application? – This is the minority. The application is rejected. Motion for a resolution by Mr Kitzmüller, colleagues, on the extension of child care costs. Who's for it? - That's not the majority. The application is rejected. Motion for a resolution by Mr Ursula Haubner, colleague and colleagues on child care reform. I'm asking for your sign. – The request is rejected. Motion for a resolution by Mrs Ing. Christian Höbart, colleagues in support of increasing the reputation of teaching professionals. Your signs, please. – The request is rejected. Motion for a resolution by Mr Mühlberghuber, colleagues, on the adjustment of family aid for EU/EEA citizens. Your signs, please. – The application does not find a majority and is rejected. Motion for a resolution by Mr Schenk, colleague and colleagues on improving the exemption from care. Your signs, please. – The request is rejected. Motion for a resolution by Mr Themessl, colleagues, on the introduction of an investment exemption. I'm asking for your sign. – No majority. Rejected. Motion for a resolution by Mr Gerhard Huber, Members of the European Parliament, on: Enoughly paid – Veto against cuts in agricultural funding to the Austrian farmers! Your signs, please. – The request is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Podgorschek, colleagues and colleagues on the exemption from VAT of local authorities in the event of the provision of services to other municipalities in the framework of local cooperation. Whoever supports this, I ask for a sign. – The request is rejected. Debates of the European Parliament President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). I'm asking for your sign. – No majority. Rejected. Debates of the European Parliament Now lower taxes! – BZÖ fair tax model. If you're for that, I'll ask you for your sign. – No majority. Rejected. Debates of the European Parliament I'm asking you for your sign. – No majority. The application is rejected. [[Members of the Federal Government talk to each other.]] – May I ask for some rest on the government bank? [[Cheerfulness and condolences with FPÖ, Greens, BZÖ and Team Stronach and with representatives of the ÖVP.]] We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Widmann, ladies and gentlemen, on the harmonisation of budgetary law for countries and communities. I'm asking for your sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. Debates of the European Parliament Hofer, colleagues and colleagues on the improvement and further development of the Federal Financial Framework Act. I'm asking for your sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. Debates of the European Parliament Rossmann, colleagues on bank insolvency law. I'm asking for your sign. – No majority. The application is rejected. We shall come to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Herbert, ladies and gentlemen, on urgent action to respond to retirement in the executive service. I'm asking for your sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. The agenda is exhausted. [[20:19:29]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00181_d8e52941	I am still announcing that in today's session, the self-employed applications 2116/A(E) to 2144/A were filed. Question No 13027/J to 13111/J has also been received. The next meeting of the National Council on business communications and allocations will be convened at 8.20 p.m., which is immediately after this meeting. This meeting is closed.
