ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e1733	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen! I'll open the meeting. The official protocols of 144 and 145. Meeting of 29. On 1 February 2012, he was appointed to the Parliamentary Board of Directors. As prevented, the Members of Parliament are reported Katzian, Mag. Schickhofer, Gahr, Großruck, Obernosterer, Dr. Graf, Linder, Dipl.-Ing. Deimek, Mayerhofer, Mag. Brunner, Dr. Pilz, Kaufmann-Bruckberger, Schenk and Windholz. [[10:01:51]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e1767	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] Time-limitation request
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e1917	Before entering the agenda, I would like to inform Mr Magistrate. Stefan has requested that the Constitutional Committee report on the motion for a resolution 1846/A(E) by Mr Strache, colleagues and colleagues on the immediate reduction of the Federal Government be limited to 28. ==References== The motion for a resolution will be put to the vote in accordance with the Rules of Procedure after the end of the negotiations. I announce that this meeting will be transferred to ORF 2 from 10 a.m. to 1 p.m. and from ORF III in full length. Let's go into the agenda. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e1947	A consensus was reached between the members of the Presidential Conference on the design and duration of the debate. Accordingly, a day block time of 3 ‘Vienna hours’ has been agreed, so that the following speaking times arise: SPÖ and ÖVP per 44 minutes, FPÖ 38 minutes, Green 32 minutes and BZÖ 30 minutes. For the duration of the television broadcast in ORF 2, the following statement was agreed: Declaration by the Federal Chancellor 13 minutes, statement by the Vice Chancellor 13 minutes, then a round of speakers with 10 minutes each, another with 8 minutes each, then a member of government ÖVP and then a member of government SPÖ with 5 minutes each, another round of speakers with 6 minutes each and then another round of speakers with 4 minutes each. As regards the line of speakers, it was agreed: first round: Contra/pro, the further rounds: by group size. The President-in-Office is asked to ensure that speaking times are strictly respected. Before the beginning of the final round – after consultation with the club presidents – he will distribute the remaining speaking time to the five political groups in such a way that all political groups will be able to speak evenly during the television season. Any actual corrections will only be made after the television time in ORF 2. Furthermore, according to § 57 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure, to limit the speaking time of each Member of Parliament to 10 minutes without a club membership. We shall now proceed to the vote on the speaking time just presented. Whoever gives him the consent, I'm looking for a sign. – This is unanimously accepted. [[10:04:33]] Declarations by the Federal Chancellor and Vice-Cancellor pursuant to Article 19(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Council on the Stability Package 2012–2016
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e2005	We thus reach the statements of the Federal Chancellor and the Vice-Cancellor. Following these statements, a debate will be held within the meaning of Article 81 of the Rules of Procedure, in accordance with the request made by five Members. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). I'll put the clock on the agreed 13 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e2035	Madam President. Dear Members of the Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! In these days, the stability of our common currency is therefore becoming the subject again and again, because in the euro area there are many countries that need to improve their stability through structural reforms, because as a currency zone we want to become independent of speculation, of high interest rates for government bonds that have led to too much uncertainty in Europe since the financial market crisis. In order to achieve this stability, this independence, this strong common currency, all countries of the eurozone must fulfil their tasks. This should certainly include taking the predictability of debt seriously. This certainly includes all that has been agreed in the Fiscal Pact, in the Sixpack or in many other decisions in recent weeks and months as a rule. We are not yet so far away that we can say that the eurozone has removed the inequalities that exist, the risks that exist, the eurozone is strong and can also jointly hold the next, perhaps important step, for government bonds, in which some form or other common government bonds are also purchased, in order to regain the confidence that has existed in government bonds for many years and decades. So the end point is clear: We want a stable currency. We want a predictable development. We want a development through which we also have more Community liability and Community benefits. Whether they are called Eurobonds or whether there are more possibilities for the European Central Bank, whether they are comparable to those of the United States or the British, this is a question that can be decided, if the stability in the euro area in which common monetary union is strong enough to take these further steps. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] It is about achieving this stability after a financial market crisis that has destroyed many values, including the poorest in Europe who have had little social security anyway. There are many countries in Europe that did not have to show so much in the fight against poverty that was at last in this area, and the financial crisis has made the poor even poorer, unemployment, including youth unemployment, have increased. So: At the same time, to tackle structural reforms while ensuring in Europe that debt development is calculated to be independent from financial markets and to invest actively at the same time and to stimulate the economy, this is certainly a difficult task. But we have to do both, we must see no contrast in that. We cannot either save or invest, but we must save and invest. We cannot either manage the debt or increase employment, we need a predictable development in debt and a predictable development in employment. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Now Austria also has to fulfil these tasks – of course, from a different level than countries that have landed in the headlines daily through speculation. We are always among the best in Europe when it comes to developing interest rates, which you can look at every day – even when compared to Germany or other countries. We are not even 3 percent interest on our government bonds and in the past we have always had to take into account 4 to 5 percent interest in the budget. So for those government bonds that still run over the ten-year period, we pay more interest than we currently have to pay for a resumption. Why do I say that? – Because interest payments are an essential factor in the assessment of the question: How independent, how strong is a country, how much confidence in a country do those who decide whether to buy state bonds? But why is that important to all? – Because it is all better to invest money in our country in schools, education, employment than in overpaid interest payments. It is therefore so important to take the development of these interest rates very seriously and to ensure that Austria continues to be stable, that Austria is further independent and that Austria does not have to spend the hard-earned money of taxpayers on excessive interest rates, as unfortunately is the case in many other countries in Europe. Therefore, this stability package is so crucial. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] To achieve € 27.8 billion by 2016 through revenue and expenditure-side measures must generate a lot of discussion, must also encourage contradiction. Parliamentary negotiations will show many aspects – aspects already known, but also those that are put on the table in addition – and these are to be discussed and negotiated. However, I am proud that we are doing so in Austria in this climate, that the government, which has this task of this scale, and the Parliament, which has to discuss and decide, can do this in a climate where not demonstrations and territorial demonstrations or even violence take place in the streets, but rather a socially balanced climate prevails, a respectful and fair way of dealing with each other. That alone is a quality of Austria that we have to defend together. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] I would like to thank those who had a lot to work on during these negotiations, who had many templates to draw up calculations for the many co-workers, internal and external, who have contributed to the preparation of these 98 laws, hundreds, thousands of measures passed through, proposed, proposed, proposed in all the consequences. I thank all employees on behalf of the government for this. I would also like to thank those members of the government who had to bear a particularly heavy burden during these hours, especially the Minister for Finance, who, of course, had a special piece of work to do. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] I would also like to say – that is important to me personally – that it is not a defensive programme, in which only cuts and administrative reforms in individual areas have been used, but it is also €4 billion for offensive measures. Now I know that the debate will clearly show that even in the case of offensive measures there can be different opinions – how much was it before, how much has been taken away or added? – that it is also a good thing to argue about, but the fact is that in contrast to most of Europe’s countries – and in this we agree – they currently decide on their budgets, but also to the United States, the states, two things cannot be seen: [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Exactly!]] First: When reporting on revenue-based measures from other countries, it is discussed an increase in VAT and the cost of food. There is no such thing in Austria, because we know we do not need an increase in VAT, and an increase in the cost of food would hit the weakest, so there are no such measures in Austria. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Secondly, In many countries, the Rotstift is being used across it, because many countries have nothing else left in their situation, so that universities, schools, too, are saved from education. There is no such thing in Austria! We are talking about an increase for universities, a total of €4 billion, of the complete assurance of our programme for the introduction of the New Middle School, of improved opportunities for our children through education and training, of a further expansion of the training guarantee for young people, so that they do not have to be re-integrated, as in other countries, after years of unemployment, but that every young person of 15 years of age who does not find a teaching place gets a training place from us. This is a training guarantee that attracts attention across Europe, which has just been presented by the President of the Commission as a model for Europe. Our dual training system, the strong role of small and medium-sized enterprises in our country and the responsibility of industry must be highlighted, but also the responsibility we show through the guarantee of training. This is an essential point that proves: It is not about either saving or employment, but we in Austria achieve a high level of employment and will nevertheless be able to show stable finances by 2016 as a result of our economical approach. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] There are also measures to be taken together with the federal states. On the International Women's Day, an important and important point for those responsible who are always putting our Gabi Heinisch-Hosek on the table is that while expanding all day school forms, it is far too slow to move forward that the compatibility of work and family is far too slow that we need a higher pace. We have an Austria-wide difference in the development of kindergartens, of childcare facilities, which are an educational institution and not a storage facility, which help to improve the compatibility of work and family together with the school forms throughout the day. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] For this – and I would like to say this on the International Women's Day – Gabi Heinisch-Hosek has acted in this way, during these negotiations and at all, I would like to thank her as a woman's minister and congratulate her on this. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I do not want to go into detail in the measures due to the short time available, but only to say that many of the revenue-based measures do not concern mass taxes. It can be said that since Loipersdorf, from the securities KEST to changes in Stiftung privileges, from group taxation to changes in Stock Options, from changes in group taxation we are taking this time, from real estate growth to a solid contribution that is intended to contribute to our budget, with what we are fighting for at European level and where we are convinced that we have good chances of achieving, such as the financial transaction tax, as well as the bank tax, also the increased bank levy, we have proven that there are alternatives to the increase of petrol and food prices in revenue-side measures. We ensure that something is done in a mix, which can be described as fair and reasonable. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I would like to conclude by saying that this stability programme and package, with the many measures in the next few years, will, of course, always come to the test: Does the economy develop as we have assumed, or do changes have to be made? Are our actions developing as planned, or are we to make changes? But: Decisiveness regarding the structure, determination in achieving the objective, determination that it should be fair, determination that employment is a central value in our society and that therefore economic growth is of particular importance, shows this government. I would ask you to show in the discussions on all the Pro and Kontra that we Austrians are proud that Austria is a stable country and that we are working together to bring about the reforms that will enable us to become a model in Europe again and again in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e2141	Mr Spindelegger has now come to speak on the presentation of his statement. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e2162	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! High house! After ten weeks of intensive discussion in the Federal Government, we have proposed measures, which were presented to the public a few weeks ago and are now also covered by legislative texts, measures for the next five years, which represent a total value of approximately €27 billion. This is a project of enormous nature. This is a project that has a big goal. The aim is to: We have to put Austria back on healthy legs, and I believe that this is achieved. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The essential content of this package of measures is the structural effects we want to achieve. These structural effects are involved where we have seen in recent years that developments are taking place, which we must no longer accept, so as not to create a new burden on Austria. There must be a different system, especially in the direction of the main cost drivers, which helps us to achieve our objectives. I should like to focus very briefly on these measures. The most important area is certainly that we come to another age of arrival in early pensions, which is necessary. [[Calls.]] Due to increasing life expectancy and all of the things ahead of us in the future, it is absolutely important and necessary that we also work longer that we have a different retirement age in Austria as a whole than is the case today. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We have therefore been very intensive about what we can do in the disability pension. I believe that measures are being put in place and are now being put into legislative form, which will actually do so. We have undertaken the establishment of a pension account, where everyone can understand the amount of the pension to which his previous contributions will lead, and which will make this system a part of the deductions and cover of the past. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Supreme Officials!]] We also asked the pensioners to make a contribution by providing only a very significant increase in pensions for the years 2013 and 2014. This too is a necessary contribution. And I would also like to thank you at this point for the willingness to compromise the Council of Seniors, which has taken a step with us and negotiated this contribution with us. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Secondly, I would like to address the issue of health costs and their development. We all know very well that a further increase in annual health expenditure of more than 5 percent, as is the case today, is not feasible. That is why we have agreed with the federal states on a new system. We will introduce a cost-damage path with benchmarks. In order to achieve this, reforms in the hospital system will have to be implemented in all federal states. I would also like to thank the federal states which have taken a line with us, which have agreed with us in political terms on such a system, which we are now now putting into an Article 15a agreement. I am convinced that this will not save the patient, but the structures, and that is the right way to continue maintaining a health system in Austria. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We have considered in the grants to the Austrian Federal Railways how we can bring this into a new form, so that this company also has a good future. We have found a mix of reforms and a rethinking of major projects where we still have savings potential, and this is a good result that lies on the table. € 1.4 billion, which will be saved by the year 2016, is a proper contribution to this rehabilitation package, and I think that is exactly the right thing. We have also discussed this intensively with management, so that we can keep the subsidies a little lower on the Bundesbahnen. I am allowed to address the administrative reform, a long project in this Republic, which has been under discussion for 20 years. We have worked through 599 proposals from the Court of Auditors carefully, we have taken many of them into account, and we know very well that the administrative reform has not ended, but that we must make it a permanent strategy of the Federal Government in order to adapt our administration accordingly to today's circumstances. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: How many?]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would like to mention in particular that we are also going new ways in the promotions. We have agreed that we will set up a new funding pyramid, where in the future it must be clear who will pay which funding, who will process the applications. We also want to establish a system where we review and also provide for funding objectives with consequences. And we have agreed on a 5 per cent savings margin in the promotions with the countries as a whole. This is also important so that it is clear that we will deal with the Austrian tax money very carefully. I would like to mention as a sixth point that the public service is also making a huge contribution to this restructuring package. We also agreed that we should focus on the question of the mobility of employees. A zero wage round or a small salary increase in 2014 will also contribute to this rehabilitation package, which can be seen. We have an excellent public service in Austria, which we want to keep, and I also thank you for being able to reach this social partnership together with the public service trade union. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] But it is crucial, ladies and gentlemen, why we have put in place this restructuring package. I would like to begin by explaining, from my point of view, that a federal government has the task of looking at the whole and not at particular interests, that it also has the task of putting in place measures beyond the legislative period that underline this recovery course. That's what this federal government has done. We have ventured very far forward for five years with a package of 27 billion, and we have presented measures that will also work beyond 2016, and that is the right thing. We want to achieve a zero deficit again in 2016, we want to reach 60 percent of government debt by 2020. The measures underline this, and that is the right objective. A federal government has to assume responsibility, we have done so. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, if I look at the years after 2016, it is not stated in the Constitution or in the Ten Commandments that there should be no surplus, and I think it is an exciting project to carry out once in the years following 2016 to achieve a surplus in the budget so that the debt can be reduced accordingly. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would like to underline this with the following sentence: My goal in a federal government is not to inherit debt, but opportunities! And this package of measures also takes account of this principle. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Let me mention a second point, that is the European level. Of course, we also need the support at European level that we carry out this debt reduction programme in all countries as a whole. We have negotiated a Fiscal Pact which has now been signed and which will soon be available to the House. We have an ESM Treaty, which is also the measure of how, when a country is in difficulty, rescue action is taken. But we need more than just the economy in Europe, we also need a growth course in Europe. I therefore also propose in this House that we join forces with other countries in order to make this growth in Europe and innovation a future programme. The population of the European Union is currently about 7.5% of the world's population. But in these 27 countries, 30 percent of world trade is generated, and this shows that if we want to keep this benchmark, we must also move towards growth on this continent, towards innovation. This includes proper programmes proposed. We are in the process of developing such a one that can also become effective after 2014. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Third point: We will not only save in Austria, but also invest properly. The Federal Chancellor has already pointed out that we have also taken offensive measures, such as offensive measures at universities with a university billion, which will be effective from 2013 onwards. This means that we give a special priority to the academic training of young people, that we also take money into our hands here, so that this academic training will also improve the ranking of the universities of the world. This should increase the opportunities of young people who are being trained there, and they should be able to contribute a little to innovation in our country as entrepreneurs themselves, as future employees. I think that is very correct and important. That is why the university billion is also an important point of the German government's offensive action. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Fourth point, ladies and gentlemen: We have not put in place any savings measures on the part of the families, we have not taken any savings measures on the part of the beneficiaries of the smallest pensions. [[Call: You've done that before.]] There too, we have made sure that not those whose income is already at the bottom are affected by additional measures. And we have also made it clear for the future that we also need to develop a programme of development for families. We cannot finance that at the moment, but we will do so. It is important for me to give the family a special priority. Proposals will be drawn up for this, which we will also present at the right time. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It is crucial to me – we have taken care of this – that it is now, as we also demand a victim to the population – and that is not a simple sacrifice, I do not want to say that everyone who is affected by this rehabilitation package must make its contribution – that there is an even distribution that not a group is particularly used. And that's what I mean, that's what I did. I also advertise the approval of the population here, because everyone has to know that we can only make a healthy contribution to Austria as a whole. At 27 billion in five years, everyone also makes a contribution. And I believe that we can account for this, and hope that we will be able to adopt this package, which we are presenting to the House today, after a proper parliamentary debate this March, so that we can go ahead with it and say: Yes, we have laid the foundations, even with a bitter medicine, but it is essential that we get back to health. Put Austria back on healthy legs, which is the main motive of this savings package, ladies and gentlemen. I think we succeeded.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e2305	We are now going into the debate on the statements. The speaking times are known. The first is Mr Klubobmann Strache. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e2332	Madam President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! On the International Women's Day – perhaps at the beginning of the day – we should also bear in mind that unfortunately, even in our country, we still have a situation in which many women still do not receive the same wage at the same rate, in which there are over 400 000 minimum pensioners who are sometimes fed down with dramatic bedding pensions, which is really unworthy. And we should also point out that more and more women than single women really live on the poverty line and have to fight with it, alongside other misdevelopments. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Especially at the International Women's Day should also be thought about, and at least once call to mind that we still have much to do there, even in the case of problems of forced circumcision, forced marriage to honors that unfortunately exist in our society today. There is much to be done, and in these areas we must also raise awareness. But let us come to the subject of today's special meeting. If Mr. Werner Faymann, but also Mr. Vice-Chancellor Spindelegger, have made himself here today and have explained to us that they want to put this country back on healthy legs, then the question must already be asked: Who has led this country into this situation? Who has caused this dramatic situation of record debt that we have to suffer today? [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We had to take the loss of Triple A and a development where our Austrian tax money is pumped in and lost in an irresponsible way towards the banking speculators of Europe and towards the pleite states. Thus, countless Austrians and several generations will have to fight what you have to answer. And if you want to make yourself up here today and explain to us, you're going to put our country on healthy legs after you've led us into this crisis, then that's like having both legs amputated to the Austrians before, but then you come here and say: We want to save you now, so to speak, after we have both legs amputated! – That is no longer credible! That's where you turn the bock into a gardener. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And if you, Mr Vice-Chancellor, are producing today and talking about the fact that 599 proposals from the Court of Auditors have been worked through by you, I must say: That's sweet, but how many points have you implemented? You haven't answered it to this day. Two and a half points maybe! But there is no structural administrative reform. And that's exactly what all the experts criticize, because you're going here today, praising and praising this savings package in the highest tones. In reality, this package is a revelation of this federal government and shows that in the form of taxes and tax increases you are ultimately also getting back into the pockets of the citizens. And that is irresponsible in our opinion, because You should have implemented structural reforms, and you have remained guilty. They go back and do what you have been doing since then, simply in the form of tax increases and taxes in the Austrian wallet. And that's exactly what a hole to-hole policy means, which we have always condemned. Necessary reforms are needed, structural reforms are to be found in this savings package. And that's why we're also deliberately talking about an unscrupulous piece of work that you're presenting here. You say in your calculations that government debt From 73 percent to 70 percent is to be pressed – so far as it is good; it is hoped that this will also be the case – but with these figures alone you show your dishonesty again, because if you calculate the outsourced areas of ÖBB, ASFINAG, the municipalities, then today we come to a government debt of 90 percent of the gross domestic product. You already play unfairly in the debt ratio in your numbers. And then this federal government even calculates fictitious revenue such as a financial transaction tax that is not in sight, up to a tax on black money, which is supposed to have been fixed with Switzerland. But they do not even know anything about it, because no negotiations have taken place to date. But you are going here and already accounting for revenue in the budget of next year of a billion euros. That's unfair! That's dishonest! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This shows how unreasonable you are in politics. Nothing's fixed yet. That's all fictitious. This would be just as if you were going to write into the budget: We now play Lotto every week and expect to do the lotto six three times next year. And that's what we're gonna book into the budget. – That’s unfair! Once again, we are being pushed out in many areas, as we are unfortunately used to by the Federal Chancellor Faymann, but also by Vice Chancellor Spindelegger. And I say, If you were to simmer at least elegantly! But as transparent as you're dizzying us, that's finally something I'm saying, it's stiff and almost insulting how transparent you do it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Herbs.]] That's exactly what's being lived by your side. And the population has to swallow €50 billion of loads, including the 2010 Loipersdorf load package, Mr. Herbe. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] At the time, you have burdened the families and the caregivers in this country and at the expense of the poor in our country you have ultimately saved and made it difficult to get a care level, and this has been divided differently. And that's it! WIFO, the Court of Auditors and the IHS are right to criticise what is available here, and say that once again one has denied the opportunity to finally put structurally in the red and black administrative sector. This is the last time we have discussed the proposals. Mr. Klubobmann Cap, because you always say: Proposals from the opposition side! Yes! We don't need more than 20 social insurance companies. Get down to one or two social security funds! A uniform federal hospital plan would be necessary. In the health field, funding from a pot would be necessary. There should also be critical debates on whether it is necessary to maintain a democratically unauthorized administrative unit, such as the District Headships, which, of course, causes additional costs. There are many, many proposals that should be discussed. The Court of Auditors' proposals for structural administrative reform should also be taken seriously. It should not only be read and then transferred to the agenda. Yeah, there's a lot to do. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] What does your savings package include? – Pension Robbery! That is to say, you have again burdened those people who have been stolen and robbed many things in the last ten years through a non-existent pension index adjustment. They're the losers again. We see the losers at the ASVG-pensionists. Massive loads for large sections of the population up to the small and medium-sized enterprises. Additional labour costs are increased. Well, please, that's exactly what you're doing. where we have been hearing for years what we have been saying and what we have promised, where we have done exactly the opposite. But when it comes to the privileges, when it comes at last to cuts in top pensions, to the National Bank or the ORF, or to the privileged political pensions, you are silent. You don't get in there. This is according to the motto: Pui devil, that concerns their own red-black areas, because of course we don't want to hurt ourselves! We are once again burdening the general population. – That’s exactly your thinking! The whole package also shows how little the government and the EIA itself take seriously here. The then Minister of Finance Molterer said in 2008: Over the next few years, the tax and tax rate must be lowered to less than 40 percent. - So far, so good! Wonderful consideration, wonderful suggestion! His successor, Minister of Finance Josef Pröll, said in October 2009: The aim must be to reduce the tax rate. That's where the finance ministers change to devil come out. Then Mrs Fekter is sitting there. She said in her budget speech on 19 July. October 2011 still: The reduction of the tax rate is my clear objective! And what happens in this load package? – The tax rate is increased to 46 percent! – Yes, do you still take yourself seriously?- Oh, my God! You're not serious anymore. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Interference of Federal Minister Dr. Fekter.]] On Sunday we know where we are talking about reducing the additional wage costs which you have been calling for verbally over and over again for years or demanding and supposed to implement. But now we have increased in four areas of additional labour costs – at the time of this crisis a disaster for the economy, for the economic location and for the jobs in Austria! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That's it! But with the building-saving premiums, you get in there. In private future provision, instead of making substantial interventions in the promotion sector and making a subsidy brake that would be possible to finally stop the waste expenditure being carried on, the coming generations who will eventually have to pay for it will rip in. We have the same thing at the pension cash rate, which is now collected to stop holes, and at the partial stateization of the ÖVAG. – Well, we haven't even arrived in the end. The municipal loan will soon be followed by a billion €, as we hear. There I can only say – also towards SPÖ – that: There the €900 million for the hypo is really a “learnerlshas” compared to what is ultimately due to the costs of the municipal credit and the ÖVAG. You have to say that clearly once. And there, however, Mrs. Schmied is sitting up here and pretending to have nothing to do with the municipal credit with this miscarriage that was done there. That's what you're so happy to forget. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] So I say you should actually be ashamed of this load package and not come out here with proudly swollen breast and say how great you work. – No, you have failed – the final sentence is – to make structural reforms and finally to protect our tax money in Austria in such a way that the Austrians find a good future. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign]]
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e2553	Mr Klubobmann Dr. Cap is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e2574	Madam President. High house! Mr. Klubobmann Strache, you've always been really productive today. I have to tell you – I'm almost saddened now – because you accept the women on the World Women's Day: The very first thing the blues enforced in 2000 was the abolition of the Ministry of Women. And then you put a little on this by setting up a men's department in a ministry, in Section VI, section 6 – so that there is also a sexist background. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] That, I think, should be said clearly in this context. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] You need to know that there is a women's ministry so that the issue of equal rights and the extension of equal rights of women can be taken into account across all areas in the department. [[Abg. Kickl: How's the family ministry?]] This is why the Federal Chancellor stressed the importance not only of the Ministry of Women, but also of Gabi Heinisch-Hosek as part of the creation of this stability package. [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: That has now been embarrassing!]] This is very important, we want to emphasize this also on this World Women's Day, just as we admit: Much has been achieved, but there is still a lot to be achieved so that our goal of genuine equality between women in Austrian society can be achieved. And that was clearly added here again. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Because we are always talking about development in Europe and the eurozone and so on: I believe that it is the opinion of all five political groups here anyway, how important the euro is for our economy to be able to trade, to secure employment and growth; 1 million employees in Austria are formally dependent on the export economy. And if you want this employment here, you have to fight for the euro to continue to remain a stable currency. In this context, of course, there are savings packages in other comparable European countries. This is always too little taken into account here. There is no 0.5 percent plus instead of 0.8 percent plus talk, but there are hard cuts. That's where you intervene in wages. There are reductions in the public sector, in a category of 10 000, 20 000 and 30 000 jobs. In France alone, 16 000 jobs are saved in the education sector, 9 000 jobs in primary schools, and a total of 14 000 are to be reduced. For example, I call you the figures of the United Kingdom: This takes place in a dimension of half a million public service jobs. [[Abg. You're pumping our money in there! That's where you lower our tax billions!]] Yes, benefits, not always as some cynical say: Well, stop the administration and the officials! and off. – No, these are also less services for citizens. There's an intervention in pensions. That's not what it says: We adjust a little less because we have a savings package!, but that's minus 5 percent, minus 10 percent, minus 20 percent. This is happening in Europe in a wide variety of countries, including Austria. Finally, we should also see that there is no increase in VAT in Austria, for example! I can show you a number of countries, but where VAT is gradually increased and mass taxes are increased, where pensions are being intervened, as I said earlier. There is no such thing as Austria, where there is no increase in health insurance contributions, no increase in mass taxes. We have really tried to be socially just in this consolidation package. Now I have to tell you something that is a very important achievement. We have often discussed the question of manager salaries. disproportionately increased! Frivol part of how it happened. Now it has been fought – and that was our particular concern – that, as part of corporate governance, there is a disclosure of managers' salaries in the close-to-state businesses. And this is supposed to be an example for all managers' salaries. Managers should also be in the public interest if they have multiple increases, even in times of crisis, while they have people to release or propose wage cuts. I think that is a very important point. There should be They're actually for it, too. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Stache: At last make a salary cover! A manager's content cover! Nothing's coming to this day!]] As far as the bonuses are concerned, it is true that the bonuses are once more taxed to the chest. Let me tell you something else – we have discussed it several times here –: In Austria we have 80 000 euro millionaires, the 100 richest Austrians have over 60 billion euros in assets. We know that only a small part of the Austrians owns most of the real estate and money. I would like to say once again: It's not about expropriation, it's not about taking away money or wealth from the middle class – it's about social justice. [[Abg. Kickl: And whether!]] It's about the really super rich who think about whether they don't go best with a envelope or with a suitcase or otherwise to Switzerland and place their black money there, or from me not the black money, but the white money, but at least to place their money, or to Liechtenstein or to the Cayman Islands or elsewhere. And then you make yourself and say, Oh, my God, I'm so depressed, they won't get in touch with the black money at all! No, that's not the way to address this question. Then you'll be glad to help with how to get to the black money. And the first step is to try to conclude a treaty with Switzerland, to reach these billions who have brought the Austrian super-richs there, and to achieve this kind of social justice in this country. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Bucher: Are you negotiating?]] This is a very essential point, because if, in the majority of cases, the citizens have to sacrifice something smaller, but still more, compared to Europe, even much smaller, but still sacrifices, they are right to ask: But what about those who have judged it? What about those who have accumulated wealth? – Many by honest work, many by not honest work, many by tax evasion, many in whatever form. And we as a policy are required to take action here. [[Abg. Kickl: And political pensioners like you! No more going!]] And I'll tell you: Nor is the inheritance tax concerned with the inclusion of operating assets. It is not about including the middle class. That's all propaganda! It is a matter of involving the great wealth. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It's about that they finally pay a tax. And that is just because they have an increase in value out of wealth, an unemployed increase in value! That's not expropriation. That doesn't mean you've been taxed once, and if you're skillfully charged, you're getting richer and richer. All right, great! Congratulations! - That's too little, I think. And, of course, we are glad that there are also successful entrepreneurs in Austria who have world salary – congratulations! By the way, many say already voluntarily that it is good for their image when they come in. Many say: We want to be there, we want to do something for our safety, for working conditions in Austria, for giving money in foundations in Austria! That is why we have also insisted that they pay more taxes there, which is instead of 12.5 percent 25 percent. For those who have daughters of their companies abroad and have losses there, it is not so easy that they now come to Austria and say: The Austrian taxpayer pays the losses abroad! – That too, I think, is unfair. There too we have to intervene. We have already taken steps, this is also going in the right direction – yes, also in the right direction – but the big controversial question is, of course, the question of property tax. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] And I say to you once again: great wealth, not medium-sized; I emphasize it again and again. But look: In the UK, 4.2 percent of revenue, as measured by GDP, comes from wealth taxation. Then come France, the USA, Japan, Switzerland, Italy, the OECD section, the Netherlands, Greece, Norway, Sweden, Germany: All pay more wealth tax – everyone! –, only Austria not! And that's correct. This is a point – I say that to the address of the coalition partner – where we will not be loosened, will not be loosed. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] You have to decide, you have to decide sometime: Do you want the support of a few millionaires, or do you want you to support the middle class as well? [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] And the middle class is right to say: If the big assets do not come along, then the middle class comes along, then the small entrepreneurs come along, then employees with their small income come in! [[Abg. Strache: Is that the new election theatre?]] It is important that there is this social justice in Austria to a greater extent, because this consolidation package bears the Social Democratic manuscript, where, dominating, elements of social justice are inside. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Where?]] – You mustn't want to see it as an opposition at all. But you must see it when you make yourself and try to judge it fairly, because we will only gain confidence in the population if we hold this discussion fairly here. [[Abg. Bucher: First of all honest, then fair!]] And fairness means fairness, and fairness is also the focus of social justice. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Why are you swallowing all the time?]] I have already told you x-time at this point: It is important to fight for this social justice, because then people have money in their pocket, then they have the opportunity to buy, invest, then the economy will develop, then there is employment, then there is growth. In all these times of crisis, which we had to deal with budgetaryly by the state, it has been a matter of taking this factor into account, because then the Austrian economy is the most competitive, the most competitive, the most competitive. This is also one of the points that ensures our social and health systems – and we are proud of that.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e2819	Mrs. Klubobfrau Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e2842	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Klubobmann Chopf, Mr. Head, Cap, Cap! - Now I have to apologize. [[General hustle and bustle.]] [[Congratulation with the Greens as well as with representatives of the FPÖ.]] Now I have to apologize, but my colleague Cap has so confused me with his emotional performance. [[Demonstrative applause by representatives of the SPÖ.]] How can one be so excited about things that have nothing to do with reality at all? Where is the button on which you can press that you can draw such a number? That really confused me now! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I still have to explain this name confusion. But I wonder, Fighting Wins What about social justice? Fight You at home in front of the mirror against yourself – or against the Clubobmann head? Against whom? [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the greens.]] Now you are the fourth year in this Federal Government – where do I find the red manuscript, the manuscript of social justice? [[Abg. Brace: Mirror fighter!]] I'm just reading them on posters. I always think: When is the time for social justice finally? – But Klubobmann Cap is fighting for social justice at home in front of the mirror. – I give you a political recommendation: Please fight this in the coalition, please in the coalition! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I was similarly confused yesterday, I must say, when Mr. Vice-Chancellor, who spoke about the savings package, spoke about the German Chancellor. [[General hustle and bustle.]] Yes, this shadow struggle and fight for social justice is now going back and forth all the time. – for the Stenographic Protocol: general cheerfulness; Close it again. – Mr Bundeskanzler said that this savings package was alternatively non-existent. And this “alternativeless” is known to all of us somewhere. Who was just a little bit in the Oscar fever: Meryl Streep, who is currently playing Maggie Thatcher, has become famous with the sentence: ‘There is no alternative.’ I think, especially in this area, how to reasonably save, how to invest wisely, how to push forward reforms in Austria, you have left out all the alternatives. This savings package is the mini variant of the compromise. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We've heard this many times: ‘There is no alternative’, especially when it comes to liberalisation projects, such as the last 20 years, concerning deregulation projects in the financial market. We have also heard this in the case of bank aid: “There is no alternative.”; now at the Austrian Volksbanken. And the population is rightly wondering, I am now also wondering: Why is that? Why Consider You're not an alternative here? One may stand with the rating agencies, as one wants, but it is nevertheless sometimes worth reading or looking at what they write or how they classify Austria. Both Standard & Poor’s and Moody’s have a very clear, very precise diagnosis regarding Austria: Austria has a problem with the banking sector. – An absolute problem with regard to the banking sector. I'll repeat it. I wonder why no one of you is even speaking openly about why there is no clear text here and why there are no consequences here. We have no consequences for the financial market – at European level, the project “new regulations” is now essentially in place. On the other hand, there are no consequences, even as regards the Austrian banking sector, except for recent banking aid packages. And we are no longer willing to accept it and accept it – like many in the population. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mr Vice-Chancellor said: It is neither in the federal constitution nor in the Ten Commandments – the Ten Commandments have surprised me a little, but okay – that one should not save that one should not make surpluses. [[Abg. Bucher: The New Testament of the ÖVP!]] [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter: You can achieve surpluses!]] I think, however, that it is not in the federal constitution nor in the Ten Commandments that we must continue to protect the rich and the super-rich in Austria. On the contrary, even! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I believe that the idea of sharing and feeling for fellow feeling is well received in the Christian social doctrine – compassion if people are not so well. And if you come out here today and talk about the situation of women in Austria, I ask you: Who's the bottom three of your income? Who are the small income-related women in Austria, if not the women, if not the single parents, women with children who are dying and who receive no support and assistance through this savings package? And then being proud that VAT has not been increased is, honestly, too little for the International Women's Day. That's really too little for women's day. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The fact is, there is no discharge through this savings package. You can also invest, you can also relieve lower incomes, even with a tax reform. This is not just about saving, it is also about reforms. And that is precisely the principle criticism of this “ giant” package – “ giants” under quotation marks –: A third is not true or shy or a black hole. There are no reforms here, there is no financial reform here, there is no discharge of lower incomes, there is no discharge of women. – That’s fact! The fact is that through this savings package in 2016 there will be more poorer people, poor people and more wealth in Austria. That's fact! And we're not satisfied with that. We don't want that. We want to open this up again. You are invited to consider in the parliamentary negotiations exactly this command, which is nowhere – neither in the Constitution nor in the Ten Commandments – that great inheritances, foundations, that de facto unprofitable income is left unscathed in this package. Completely unscrupulous! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Very, very amusing I have also found, Mr Vice-Chancellor, that You have said that you have made a little progress in the administrative field, you have examined the 599 proposals of the Court of Auditors. That's what I'm saying: Well, you've gone through them once! But how many have you implemented? Five or ten or 15? That's what we wanted to know last time, but we didn't get an answer to it. The fact is that there are no reforms in these major areas – health, school administration, pension sector – but that is a groscherl combination, also partially mutilated, far too high numbers that do not vote, where one cannot be sure whether it holds at all. And then to say that this is the policy for the next five years, that is too little, and we also want to change that in the parliamentary negotiations, with your help. We are a self-confident Parliament – I hope – and we will not simply waver through these 400 pages, these 98 legislative proposals unchanged. That is where I hope you, Mr Cap and Mr Kopf, that we are already doing our work in parliamentary terms. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The fact is that by 2016 there will be no improved educational opportunities for 200 young people who are in education. “Offensive action” – this beautiful word back or forth, the fact is: From the legal texts that are now on the table, you can't read anything. It is not yet within whether additional funds or no additional resources are made available. On the contrary: We know this from the pocket player tricks in the savings package of Loipersdorf, that, if at all, one remains real at the same level, but we are miles away from really taking money and improving the situation of kindergartens, schools and universities sustainablely. – Despite the widespread dissatisfaction of parents and young people, despite widespread dissatisfaction and still staggering outcomes in the field of education. Is that supposed to be the policy for the next five years? – I say: No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, We will have to discuss this again. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Throughout Europe, savings packages are tied up, more or less unintelligent, so there is a danger that we will face economically difficult times when Europe threatens a recession. That is why the question of investment opportunities is a very crucial one, also for Austria. And we don't have these investment spaces in the budget! There are great opportunities in many areas, all the more so I am extremely shocked that the Minister for the Environment, with his reduction and savings thoughts, has been able to achieve itself again in one of the main areas of the future. In the field of climate protection and green jobs will be saved. – This is not acceptable, even from the point of view that we need growth, green growth, sustainable growth! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] With this package, there will be no more green jobs in 2016 than now. Unfortunately, this is a huge chance. Again to the Ten Commandments! I think the Christian commandment: Courage to reverse, courage to return, to share and so on! We can now take very seriously in parliamentary proceedings. We're ready to do that. After all, you have been embarrassed about writing a constitutional provision in any area and actually having to negotiate with the opposition, but I offer you once again a hearty offer: We can challenge the great social justice here again, because you have us as a supporter – seriously, I am fighting not at home in front of the mirror, but with you. We also have our support and you will also need it in the areas of future investment and education. We do not want to let the programme go through in such a way that the two million young people in Austria have no additional resources, no more opportunities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e3011	Mr Dr. Stummvoll is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e3032	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! High house! I believe that this package of stability, which the Federal Government presented to us, to Parliament yesterday, shows one thing: The government and the two government parties understood the lesson. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at FPÖ and BZÖ.]] The lesson due to the turbulence of financial markets in recent months and years, due to the turbulence of the sovereign debt crisis in Europe, has been understood. Of the political fairy tale – I have already said it – a state can spend years constantly more than it takes, we have to say goodbye, and that is what we do with this stability package, ladies and gentlemen! [[Detonatative condolences and bravoruf des Abg. May. Stefan]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] One thing is clear – and that is a very simple matter, Mr Commissioner, a very simple matter! –: If you spend more than you take, you need someone who borrows money. [[Abg. Ing. Hofer: Why did you do it?]] But you can't force anyone to borrow a money, so you're basically handed over to the one who borrows a money. [[Abg. Strache: Then why were you there all the time?]] That is why we are making this stability package. [[Abg. Strache: Why were you there all the time?]] – Mr Stache, that we are already successful, that – the old problem: weak arguments – loud voice, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Street: Why were you there?]] [[Abg. May. Stefan: Now you are delivered!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Strache: Why have you been there all the time?]] The fact that what we are taking up here is already successful is seen in this – something you may not know at all, Mr. Strache: We lost the Triple A at a credit rating agency. That's right, but do you know what the consequence was? – That we have been paying less interest for our public debt since then than before! Last week: 2.89 percent interest on bonds; that's less than the time we had triple A! All of this has gone away from you, Mr Strache, of course, I understand. [[Abg. Strache: And that's why you're glad you lost it? That's absurd!]] But what does that show? – Of course, the judgment of the credit rating agencies is to be taken seriously, no question at all, but investor confidence in the future of Austria is even more important, ladies and gentlemen, and this investor confidence has been regained with the debt brake and the now present stability package. And this deserves a bravo to Mrs. Finanzminister and the members of the government, a bravo for regaining confidence in the financial markets, because these are people who lend us money, these are people who invest in the future of Austria. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We have regained confidence in our strong commitment to the debt brake – against which you are, Mr Strache, against which the Greens against which the BZÖ is opposed – and also with the efforts we have made in this stability package. [[Abg. Dolinschek: Where is your debt brake?]] Ladies and gentlemen, I have already said this: It is precisely on such packages that the difference between government responsibility and opposition policy is very beautiful. In every democracy, ladies and gentlemen, political primary responsibility has the majority. [[Abg. Brosz: But you haven't had them since!]] This majority of governments bear the main political responsibility. We act according to best knowledge and conscience. If we are convinced that these reforms are necessary, we will make them even if this is not pleasant at all. It is not pleasant to say to the people, Mr. Strache: We need to raise the actual retirement age! It is not pleasant to say: We have to close tax gaps! This is not pleasant, but we do it out of responsibility for the country, and because we know we need it for the future of our country. This is concrete, Mr Strache. The opposition, okay, can know everything better, can criticize everything, can attract all protesters, but implement and bear responsibility the opposition of course cannot – and does not! How disagreeable the opposition itself is, we have seen in the debt brake. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: We don't have to agree! You must agree! They didn't agree!]] The BZÖ says: We agree, but no new taxes! The Greens say: We agree when there are new taxes! – That's so different! I do not want to imagine, Mrs Glawischnig, that green and blue are once in a government. That would probably be a mess, because you want something completely different! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Neugebauer: This is excluded!]] Mrs Glavischnig, in democracy, one can be convinced a hundred times that one's own opinion is the right one if one does not have a majority, it does not help. – That’s so simple! [[Abg. You mean this can get worse than red-black?]] We are two parties which have very different regulatory, social and economic positions. Of course you have to get together, and of course this package is also a compromise, not a question at all. A SPÖ government alone would have presented another package, with property taxes, an ÖVP government would probably have made much more expenditure side by side, not at all, but we have joined forces for a package to which even the strongest newspaper in this country, the “Kronen Zeitung”, has written bravo. [[Call to the Greens:Had raised the highest pensions!]] [[Abg. Dr. Strutz: After super!]] Bravo, wrote the “Kronen Zeitung”, bravo for several reasons. Firstly, because it is a very balanced package. [[Abg. Dr. Strutz: Was that an listing?]] [[Abg. Street: The “Kronen Zeitung ” never received as many orders as it was then!]] – You can read all of this! And this paper is not always government-friendly, ladies and gentlemen! Bravo, because it is balanced, bravo, because it leaves the middle class unscathed and because, third, it is a turnaround in thinking, that is, away from debt policy, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This judgment is based on the judgment of many experts, and this is more important, honest to us than the judgment of the opposition! [[Call at the FPÖ:You will soon be opposition!]] I was traveling with Mrs Fekter in my constituency Waldviertel yesterday. We've had several events, and I'm telling you: The people's understanding of this package is really huge, it impressed me! [[Abg. Strache: Cheers on the streets?- Oh, my God!]] The Federal Chancellor rightly thanked the members of the government, so I would like to say that I also thank the people for their understanding of this savings package. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Hagen: Go among the people, then hear it!]] [[Subsequent calls at FPÖ and BZÖ.]] It is not easy, but the people, Mr Strache, are smarter than some opposition politicians believe. Believe me! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: They fall around the neck, they dance!]] One more thing, ladies and gentlemen: There's no question, you're quite right, it's not all fixed and done. No question at all! The agreement with Switzerland does not yet exist, the transaction tax does not exist yet. But what does that mean? – That means that the government is very high on the latte. We're not saying: We have now tied a package and no more work for five years, so we put our hands in the lap!, but we have now hit pillars and know exactly, there is still a lot of sweat and a lot of brain narrowness to achieve that. No question at all! Have you ever experienced that a Parliament is adopting a five-year financial framework in which every detail is fixed? – That would be wonderful! We could then lean back five years and say: It's all done! The same is true of the big administrative reform. Some think there's a big bang, and then there's peace! – No, this is a permanent process, just as in every company organizational development is a permanent process, ladies and gentlemen! We will have to work hard on it in the next few months and years. The government has put the latte very high, no question. Let's take the example of Switzerland. How were the first reactions? – Switzerland, we will never achieve that! Yesterday, the EU Commission gave the green light to the Switzerland-Germany agreement, which is our model. Of course, Mr Commissioner, we will not do this at all, but I would actually expect a little more self-confidence from the opposition. Just to say that everything is bad, nothing we will achieve, that is not a political attitude, Mr Bucher, whom I would accept. We have put the latte up, we know exactly, we are not yet the target, we will have to work hard in the next few months and years to achieve all that we have fixed here. [[Abg. Bookbooker: You haven't even started!]] I would like to say one more word to my dear coalition colleague, Mr Klubobmann Cap, – I have said it before –: It is perfectly clear that if there were no ÖVP in the government, we would have massive property taxes. But let us look, Mr Cap and also Mr Bundeskanzler, at what types of property there are! I always distinguish four types of property, namely first of all property in the household. To this end, the Federal Chancellor has explained that we do not want to sniff, we do not see if there is a fur coat, whether there is a wine cellar or a few expensive pictures. - Okay, you can take that out, Federal Chancellor. The second property is the operating assets. Two-thirds of the fund's assets are corporate holdings and are operating assets. These are jobs, and we have said that we do not want to tax jobs. The third asset is the financial assets. This is certainly very big, but, ladies and gentlemen, this is gone at the push of a button. You cannot force an investor to have his securities portfolio in Austria. Didi Mateschitz does not have to invest in Austria, which can invest anywhere in the world. It remains as the fourth asset only land and land. Then we have to raise the basic tax massively. But do you really want that? – Sit here and say you want to raise the basic tax quite massively, with all the consequences such as rent increases and so on! That's how it looks, that's the reality, Mr Cap! I know, at the tribal tables it sounds insanely good to say, the rich, the grand-coppers are supposed to pay. But if you look closely at the facts and facts, Mr Cap, then really, very little remains. Let me say one more thing: In order to acquire property, you first have to have an income that you have to tax. For this you pay wage and income tax. If you buy something, you pay a second time tax, either VAT or property tax. In fact, this would be a triple tax if you also had to pay property tax. Ladies and gentlemen, we are familiar with this: no substance taxation, no expropriation, no sluggish expropriation, but very well taxed assets. We are now closing an important gap with the real estate transaction tax. So far, it has been the case that income from real estate sales was tax-free. We also close this gap. We have already closed a gap with the share profit tax. So one can always talk to us about this, but property is not contagious to us, that is our policy. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Finally, I said this yesterday in my constituency, because, Mr Darabos, I speak in the constituency exactly as I did in Parliament; I have already written it to you: I don't want to imagine how this package would look if we didn't have the Maria Fekter!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e3401	Mr Klubobmann Bucher is next spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e3422	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! All public attention is in the future directed to the electorate of the honourable Member, because there people are dancing in the streets for happiness, because we have a federal government, can give rise to the right mood because of the great decisions she has prepared, which she will now all decide in the near future. [[Demonstratetive applause and bravorage at the ÖVP]] [[Abg. Cheers!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, of this enthusiasm, of this euphoria, nothing was to be heard and felt in the statements of the Federal Chancellor and Mr Vice-Chancellor. So I must confess that I had already expected you to put visions into the world or open prospects for the people of our country, but that sounded more like a programmed song that you have organized here today, Mr. Federal Chancellor and Mr. Vice-Chancellor! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] But one thing I must admit to the Chancellor of the Federal Republic: For the first time in a speech here in the House, he said quite clearly and clearly what he means by social justice: that the Austrians should now be bleeding, now paying, now that they are being thrown out for the Marod countries and pleite banks of Europe, ladies and gentlemen! You have admitted this clearly and clearly for the first time today, Mr Bundeskanzler. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] They have also said that the Austrians will in future experience a huge growth through all these 98 air bubbles, which you will decide in the next few weeks; an increase in their living conditions, no matter what. Notes on the Edge: The most expensive gas station in Austria is located on Löwelstraße. For all those who do not know what road this is: This is the so-called SPÖ street here in Vienna. – It is clear and clear who is actually responsible for the enormous costing of fuels in our country and, above all, for the situation in the food sector in Austria. The party, which always stands for the “little man, ” for the workers in our country, this party now wreaks out those people who no longer know how to finance their lives. [[BZÖ and FPÖ are welcome.]] This is very adventurous and a shameless exploitation of people against the background of a very, very difficult time that we face. I have just let Mr Spindelegger's proposals go straight through my mind, although he has always talked about proposals that actually will not enter into force until 2014. – Mr Bundeskanzler, what are you planning? A proper retreat? All that has been said about today is no longer about this legislative period in which you bear responsibility, but it is only the next German government that should do so. Another word to you – because you have also spoken about it: It is neither in the Bible nor in the ten commandments that there should be any excesses, therefore that is probably the content of the new will of the ÖVP. I wonder, When do you make a will, ladies and gentlemen? - If you plan the finish! [[BZÖ and FPÖ are welcome.]] I hope not that it is already so far, but that you will fight for a while for better circumstances in our country. In summary, my honours Ladies and gentlemen: This mindless scrapping package is based on the principle of hope, on the principle of hope, because, as you yourself know, almost €9 billion you have included in this savings package, as the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany always says, will probably never be ‘introduced’; because, as you know, the negotiations with Switzerland become laborious, because you have not even begun talking with Switzerland, as far as the Austrians' black money accounts are concerned, because you have charged €1.5 billion for a transaction tax, although we and you today cannot know whether a cent of it actually goes to the Austrian budget or whether everything that comes together in financial transaction tax is going to Brussels. [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter: Wrong!]] You can't know all of this today. Your credibility is therefore in high danger! What have you told us from the government bank? I'm just remembering the bank rescue package. The Federal Chancellor and also the Finance Minister once said that this will be a business for the taxpayer. - Now all are baff! Everyone from red and black sit here and look at me big. A business for the taxpayer called it. We all heard and decided. Now the banks are changing again. The municipal credit needs money, the banks, again 1 billion € from the taxpayer. Or: Greece, aid package. The Minister of Finance has also said that it is a business for the Republic. . Now we are already discussing the Greece package number 3 behind the scenes, ladies and gentlemen, because the next time € 130 billion will not be enough. Example: Rescue shields. Mr. Federal Chancellor Faymann, you have said from the beginning that these will never be stretched up. Skill You remember? They said they'll never get beating, we don't need them. – All assumptions that do not apply! Finally, ladies and gentlemen, the Federal Government has presented a budget under the theme of "stable finances for a secure future". It's been a few weeks since you decided on the 2012 budget, a future budget that is already past! A few weeks after we went to the new year, this budget is already past. You know exactly that what you've written in there won't keep it and can't keep it. [[BZÖ and FPÖ are welcome.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, there is already a suspicion that you do not always tell us the truth that you are leading us behind the light, that you are not telling us about all that you are planning, and all that you represent to the people, and that you are not telling us the truth. Even if you say today that this savings package is Maastricht-compliant: Not even in 2020, my honours Ladies and gentlemen, you will achieve the Maastricht targets with this budget roadmap, because even in 2020 you will still have to set 66 percent debt ratio in Austria. We say that is a clear mogel pack of this federal government! Nor is it accepted, nor, as the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany has said, are other great aid measures that will be in place for us. Greece, for example, is not ‘set up’ as regards future aid measures. We all know, ladies and gentlemen, that we are facing a very difficult economic situation. Yes, what economic activity, which economic promotions will be Then you can finance in the future with this helpless package you are presenting here? There is also no evidence that you will somehow be able to make reserves so that the economy will return if you have experienced significant declines in the near future. Bank support is also nowhere in the market. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl.]] I would just like to take one example of how you view this savings package, your measure that you will increase the maximum contribution base to €4 230. This is the rate by which social security is paid. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ and ÖVP, you are now squeezing the middle class in the short term. Yes, you drop the middle class, and you know very well that at the end of the day those who now make these higher social security contributions will also receive higher pensions. In other words, you are moving all the problems of this budget and budget financing into the future. That's the responsibility I'm talking about. They are now hurling people, and later great budget holes come to us. You haven't been in the Federal Government since then. The later Federal Governments will have to beat around and complain about how they can still finance a balanced budget. This is the responsibility we warn against, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] There are a lot of things. I would just like to say one thing, because you, of course, also increase the additional wage costs with this measure. Of course! There are very clear reactions, especially in the EIA, for example, by Mr Leitel, who is always talking about reducing the additional wage costs, because Austria is suffering as a competitive location. I am speaking here, above all, about the promotion of housing. He says: "The money goes into different channels, and a significant proportion is lost. We want the commitment of housing development back." Today, we are applying for the commitment of housing development. I hope that, above all, the ÖVP and, above all, economic representatives will agree with it. After all, it's crazy that 0.5 percent of employees and 0.5 percent of employers have to pay for the fact that the state princes have more money to powder it. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I hope you will agree to our request. [[I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr Strache and Mr Ing. Hofer.]] Finally, Madam President: Of course, this savings package is primarily a cold shower for the middle class. Life is getting more expensive for people. The people in Austria pay the bill for this lying European policy, which uses the banks and, above all, the Marod countries.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e3553	In the next round of speakers I set the clock to 8 minutes each. Next, Mr Krainer.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e3589	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Bucher, who has abolished the commitment to housing resources? What government did that do? – No, I can tell you when this was abolished and what for: [[Abg. Bucher: 2008!]] This has been abolished so that your friend Jörg Haider can finance an uncovered check that can fund children's money in Carinthia. [[Call to the ÖVP:That's how it is!]] That was your work to do this. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] You remind me more of Biedermann and the arsonists that you are creating problems here and then calling after the fire brigade. [[Call BZÖ:False! Such a fool!]] Mr Glavischnig, you have criticized us here and have said that the SPÖ has been in the government for four years – five in the meantime – and you have asked: Where does the release of small and medium-sized income remain? Where does the increase in social and tax justice remain? [[Abg. Dolinschek: Yes, where do they stay? Where are they?]] Where does taxation of unprofitable income remain? – That is relatively simple explained! We only need to remember what this Federal Government has done since the outbreak of the crisis – in the last three and a half years: The first thing we have done is to reduce unemployment insurance contributions for small incomes and thus create a tax savings of approximately €300 to €360 a year for small incomes. That was the first step. The second step was to relieve small and medium-sized income through the tax reform three years ago, namely in 2009. This was a volume of two and a half billion, of which 88 percent have been used for small and medium-sized incomes, that is, over 2 billion. This was the reduction of taxes on work and the reduction of taxes on work and hence the reduction of small and medium-sized incomes if you no longer remember. But you yourself have said that you are a little confused today, perhaps this is also the reason why you have forgotten it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ing. Hofer]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The next point: If you ask where the tax justice is, where the measures of this Federal Government with which we are taxing non-profit income, I can remind you of what we have done. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Poorer more in Austria!]] [[New call for tender Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek]] We have already decided here a year ago that tax is to be paid for share profits that were tax-free. We have deleted or reduced tax privileges within the foundations and increased taxes. We have made restrictions in group taxation last year and this time again make restrictions on group taxation. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brosz.]] We will introduce the redeployment levy, i.e. non-profit income will be taxed. We will introduce real estate tax, i.e., previously unemployed incomes are taxed. [[Abg. Ing. Hofer: taxes, taxes, taxes! Bravo!]] So if you want to know what happened: In recent years, approximately €3 billion of taxes and taxes on labour have been reduced, i.e. to earnings, while at the same time €3 billion has been raised more taxes on non-profit income, on income from capital and assets. [[Abg. Dolinschek: But they don't do anything for them!]] [[Abg. Ing. Hofer: You forget the cold progression!]] This is something for which we certainly do not generate ourselves as a SPÖ, and that has not happened before the mirror, but it has happened here in the National Council, with laws. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Because you say for the education, nothing is done for education: We were both here in the opposition and saw how annual educational budgets were cut. We were sitting here and saw year after year that there were fewer teachers for our students and that more and more students were sitting in the classes. If you look at exactly what has happened in recent years, you can see: There are more teachers – and fewer teachers – there are more teachers in schools and fewer students in classes. There have been a number of measures by which the government has shown that education is important and a priority. Do you think that it is a coincidence that there is the lowest youth unemployment in Austria? Or do you not think that this has something to do with the measures that this Federal Government has put in, for example, with the training guarantee? It is not a coincidence that there is the slightest youth unemployment in Austria, but that is the result of the policy of this federal government. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Jakob Auer.]] Mr Strache – you have gone, is all right, but that can be done by your colleagues – if you explain to us that the tax rate is so bad and here so much tax is collected, please, then let us look at what happened to the tax and tax rate in recent years. – It dropped in 2009. It has fallen in 2010. And do you know when the tax and tax rate was highest when there was the record tax and tax rate? – When you were in the Federal Government! [[Abg. Ing. Hofer: As a result of your policy!]] The highest taxes and taxes have been collected in this country and not since we were in the government. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But there was no economic crisis, no, you didn't need it. [[Call to the FPÖ: We have inherited them from you!]] – Of course, from us you inherited the economic crisis! Certainly, the SPÖ is to blame for a world economic crisis and financial crisis. [[Abg. Ing. Hofer: You didn't understand the call!]] Europe as a whole suffers from savings packages that the SPÖ [[Abg. Ing. Hofer: You didn't understand the call!]] That's so ridiculous, you can't seriously mean that. That's absurd. They come and propose the subsidy brake here: Sounds good, no one has the feeling that he's getting subsidies. 6.5 percent of GDP is subsidies in Austria. We can reduce this to 3 percent, because you may not even know what all this means is subsidies. [[Call to the FPÖ: This is the European section, colleague!]] – Yes, that’s the European section, I know. But do you know what is inside the 6.5 percent, what is not inside Europe? – I can tell you already 2%, almost 6 billion, make 13th and 14ths. [[Call at the FPÖ:For example?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ing. Hofer.]] There is no such thing as this throughout Europe. That's right, there's only one thing we can do. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] The next thing is the finish, which is only available in Austria, I admit. These are the next hundreds of millions in there. Next is the taxation of overtime inside. Next is the pendler's fee that's inside. These points alone already account for more than 3 percent. Even if you delete everything else, you must delete in one of these four areas. That's where I ask you: Where do you want to save on 13th, 14th? Where do you want to save on the finish? Where do you want to save during the overtime? And where do you want to save at the shuttle fee? [[Abg. Ing. Hofer: You want taxes, taxes, taxes!]] Say it honestly! These are only empty words, and behind what you say is no content. These are empty announcements that have nothing to do with reality that may sound good, but are really bad for the Austrians. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Jakob Auer.]] But the Austrians remember the politics you have made. What did you do? – They have introduced tax privileges. For whom? – For management options! Managers could receive €35 000 a year tax-free on share options. That's what you introduced. Who removed it? - We abolished it! This federal government has abolished the tax privileges for managers you have introduced. You claim the opposite of what you have always done. That's really what you're doing. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] They come here and tell us something about pension robbery. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ing. Hofer.]] Do you know how often pensions – even the smallest pensions – were increased by the inflation rate when you were in the government? Do you know how many times? - Not even once! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dolinschek.]] Do you know how often the minimum pensions have been increased above the inflation rate since we were in the government? - Almost every time! That's a difference. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Hofer: That's not true! That's not true!]] - That's not true? This is because you believed the propaganda of Grasser that one-time payments are anything real! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dolinschek.]] All right, then believe. You keep up with the grass, believe the shame. It's absurd to believe your own propaganda. [[Interim calls at FPÖ and BZÖ.]] And then come here and talk about women's promotion – on the women's day – as a party – you belong to it, you can also point to the lowest proportion of women in your own ranks: [[Abg. Ing. Hofer: Where's the chancellor?]] Please make women's promotion in your own party! [[Abg. Ing. Hofer: Where's the chancellor? Where's the party keeper?]] That would be necessary, and it would be good that there are more women in this house. I can tell you one thing: When it comes to work and employment, when it comes to education, tax justice and fair pensions, there is an address, and that is SPÖ.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e3946	Next, Mr Auer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e3974	Thank you, Madam President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen – with Mr. Federal Chancellor and Mr. Vice-Chancellor at the head of the government! Mr Krainer, it does not even pay off that you are talking in a row like this, because if you follow the debate a little more calmly today, then it is almost clear that the opposition is very moderate, weak in the arguments, because it obviously knows for itself that the needs are present. [[Interlocutory calls from Dr. Moser and Brosz.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the need for rehabilitation has been given undisputed, so you will not get around from the opposition. It would be quite remarkable: There was an interesting article in the “Kronen Zeitung” with the counterfeit of the three sculpt clubs Glawischnig, Strache, Bucher. [[The speaker shows the above article.]] [[Abg. Ing. Hofer: Yes, they are cowardly!]] This article mentions ‘Gschnas-Niveau’. [[Rejoicing with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Read this article! [[call to the FPÖ.]] The conclusion of the commentator was that we can be happy with Mr. Faymann and Mr. Vice-Chancellor Spindelegger, ladies and gentlemen. [[Call:To go]] [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Strache: Was that an listing? Was that an listing?]] [[Further calls.]] To put Austria on healthy legs and that stability is necessary, that was the content of the statements and, as I believe, the correct statements of the Federal Chancellor and the Vice-Chancellor; stability of the euro zone, stability of Austria, so that the financial markets do not have the chance to dictate something so to speak. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grosz]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Grosz.]] Austria's starting point – and this is undisputed – is much better than that in many European countries. You can't pass that, ladies and gentlemen! Austria's starting point is clearly better. Let us look at the facts, they are available budget figures, budget deficits, debt ratios, employment figures. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ]] Show me many countries in Europe that come close to them! You'll find a few. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bitch.]] Show me a country where unit labour costs are as excellent as in Austria! [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Kogler.]] Finally, the export wonder of Austria can also be found. [[call to the FPÖ.]] Show me, apart from Germany, another country, ladies and gentlemen! [[Call at the FPÖ:Are we now in need of renovation?]] And that is why we should say quite self-confidently: Yes, stability is necessary, rehabilitation is also necessary – and that pain is associated with it, that is undisputed. A rehabilitation, a reform that does not cause pain, is not a reform. That's it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] It has already been carried out today: There is an understanding in the population if the balance is true if the right measures are carried out in a balanced way. The right balance between the intelligent saving and the growth that we urgently need is also to be found: What's the most important thing? – Employment, employment, employment. This ensures jobs, secures export success, enables the economy to produce, and ultimately saves social expenditure when there may be more unemployed to finance. Ladies and gentlemen! The Federal Chancellor today pointed out that we did not have to raise mass tax, and so did food. – To this must be added. I only note that the food expenditure of the Austrians, which amounted to about 40 to 44 percent in 1950, 1960, has now fallen to 12 percent. And not trade has contributed to this, but there is a professional group that has contributed significantly to it, namely the peasantry. Milk, meat products and cereals are still cheaper – and the farmer receives less than before joining the EU. That is why I am satisfied when certain circles in Austria keep farmers in constant compensation. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] One might also think that compensation payments for consumer support are necessary, but it is always kept for farmers – and very often also in the farmer’s backpack – when funding takes place in different areas. Ladies and gentlemen, it is undisputed that the price situation in agriculture has also experienced some improvements last year. That's what we should hold. But it is ensured that farmers also have to contribute to this savings package accordingly. And they also carry it, ladies and gentlemen, they also carry it. But I note that it was interesting that the attacks on the rural population in the run-up to this savings package and rehabilitation package had reached a level that was and is incomprehensible – and I deeply regret that. [[Abg. Head: Line expressed!]] There have obviously been stakeholders in this country who have demanded 1.8 billion of the rehabilitation contribution from the agriculture and forestry sector, which contributes to a production value of €8 billion. That's grotesk. I can remind you of certain things: € 400 million by increasing the basic tax; € 300 million by abolishing the package, € 220 million by a new car tax, tax departure for tractors, the introduction of fertilizers and other areas, for example in the agricultural diesel sector; € 600 million by reducing compensation payments up to mining promotion. There were obviously some groups – and not for nothing has the same editor written in his paper: There have obviously been some bitten by the wild cow. So it can't be that way. We have this package of stability, no question at all. This is true of us, the rural group, in many areas, but we know in our responsibility that we also have to do our part. But I say quite openly: Some will receive no increases in the next few years or only very moderate ones. We will have to bear income cuts. That is why it is particularly important for us to ensure the future EU budget and the financing of the forthcoming agricultural policy, the CAP. We from agriculture need the full support of the Federal Government here. I would ask you, Mr Bundeskanzler, to support us so that we can continue our environmental and mining programmes at least to the same extent as before, because further cuts and burdens cannot be endured by this professional group. That's what I'm holding. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is about safeguarding food supply, providing healthy domestic products, preserving the cultural landscape, our natural areas, and finally preserving the vital habitats in rural areas. Without this management in these areas there would be no tourism either. You can look at that. Here is a symbiosis – tourism and agriculture – because only by the beautiful care of the country alone the farmers cannot live, they also need the support of the Federal Government, they also need compensation payments in the future. In this sense, we are also willing to support these very tough savings measures now.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e4154	Now comes Mr. Ing. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e4176	Madam President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! Mr Auer, the statistics are always such a thing: 12 per cent of food expenditure. If I now take the example of a dental assistant who earns €1,000 a month, then that would be if I calculated that she can spend about €4 per day on food to get with this 12 percent. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber.]] Of course, this is a cut, but I too, and I deserve relatively good, just like you all, do not come out with 12 percent if I do this. It's not going to work! [[Call the ÖVP:Well go!]] [[Abg. Strache: This is a bold calculation!]] And, ladies and gentlemen, we know that food prices are currently rising massively. A friend of mine, one of my closest friends, has a good restaurant and has predicted to me that the cost of his food has increased by 60 percent from the previous year to the previous year. That is, there is really a massive burden, and we all feel that. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] – This is not a criticism of you now, I just say how these numbers really represent themselves. There's nothing the farmers can do for it. Others deserve, we know. I would like to say something else in this House, I believe, has not yet been said and what has to be said, namely that the burden package we are now facing is directly related to the crisis of the European Union and that we have been torn into this crisis. This is what the agencies are evaluating. We must therefore bear in mind what we have been promised before joining the EU. First of all, we have been told: The schilling remains! That was a promise from SPÖ and ÖVP: The schilling remains! – True today is rather, we got a monetary union early, an art currency was created, where completely different economies have been pushed into a system. Secondly, it was promised: The border controls remain! This too was promised by SPÖ and ÖVP. – This promise was also broken, and due to these open borders we have a very, very high crime by organized bands from the East in Austria, not only in urban areas, but also in the country. If you built a house a few years ago in the rural area, in the Burgenland, in Styria, in Carinthia, you have left the mixing machine in the front garden. That's not the way it is today. Thirdly, you promised: Austria's sovereignty persists! This has gradually been carried to graves from Maastricht to Lisbon. We can no longer decide on our monetary policy, on who receives social benefits, on our policy on genetic engineering. Then it's still said by you: Austria definitely has a veto right! Small countries also have the opportunity to enforce themselves in the European Union. – What is the truth? We can no longer decide which light bulbs we can use. We can no longer decide how to organise our own immigration policy. We can't decide anymore – Oh, Mr. Kai Jan Krainer is looking at it again. Mr Krainer, your speech, which you have given today, was the same that you always hold. [[Abg. Silhavy: It was great!]] [[Abg. Dr. Herbs: Excellent!]] Very angry and very violent you have spoken. But I have to tell you, you've gotten into the problem, you've got the state yourself and not any other! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It was you who made the debt and prepared us these problems. But, Mr Krainer, you are not so important, you will no longer be represented in the next Parliament. Fifthly, it was promised: Everything's getting cheaper! So, what happened to it? The purchasing power is falling, life is as expensive as never before. [[Abg. Krainer: I think the voters decide!]] – Exactly, and that’s why You will soon be no longer represented here, because the voters decide! – The tax rate has reached a record value, ladies and gentlemen! That is why I believe that on the one hand we must see openly what problems there are in Europe – we are talking about this later, Mr President! – on the other hand, we must also say that we do not want to endanger this peace project in Europe. [[Abg. Krainer: That's not true at all, that's wrong!]] That's important to us. We have experienced so many years of war in the last century, we want a peaceful Europe, but exactly the opposite is happening now. We see that in Greece flags are being burned by other European countries, that there is distrust here, that a very, very dangerous mood prevails in Europe, and that more and more people are going to the streets. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Now I would like to mention an example of a country which has always been so criticized by you in the context of accession, namely Switzerland. At that time you said that Switzerland is going a completely wrong way, because there will be poverty that will be burdened and we will overtake Switzerland. I could quote from your speeches here in Parliament. Everything you predicted didn't come true. Let us look at these two similar small states, small and medium-sized countries in Central Europe, which go different ways of European integration, but which have taken a common path from the beginning of the 1960s to the mid-1990s as an EFTA member – and now the paths have separated. So let's look at Switzerland. In Switzerland, the cantons and municipalities are currently producing a surplus of 563 million francs. They are very dissatisfied with this and know that next year it will again be 1.5 billion francs. Secondly, it is so in Switzerland that one must also admit that the federal government is slightly in the minus, with 1.5 billion francs, but in the coming years this minus will be balanced. Austria compared: 9 billion €, and we don't count on ÖBB and ASFINAG for all our problems. Switzerland's social security funds generate surpluses of billions each year, billions, at a tax rate of 30 percent! 30 percent! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Strache: You can only congratulate!]] That's why I'm saying: Let us not look at Greece, which cannot be our model, or at Portugal and Spain. We're sending our tax money to these marod countries! Let us look at the excellent states in Europe! That would have to be our role models! How can we manage to better organize our state at a lower tax rate? That is why we must go into these structural reforms. There's so much to do here! [[Interference of Federal Minister Dr. Fekter.]] Mrs Finanzminister said that was pure polemic. – This is not a polemic, Mrs. Minister, but the truth! They have failed to really go into the structures. You don't trust that! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And that's why I'm saying, Whoever will rule with the FPÖ after a election – we do not know how the elections will proceed – we will only be willing to go to a government if there is finally more direct democracy in Austria on entry into this Federal Government! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] So that the citizen has the right and the opportunity to decide for himself. Because I have to say, I have no desire to rule when it's called by the countries, by the national leaders: No, the hospital sites, we don't want the federal government to decide, that's what we want to decide. - Yes, then we'll ask the people. What do the citizens say about this? That's the better way. All these blockers, who sit here all over Austria, can be convinced with a popular decision. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Or: Administrative reform. We do not implement administrative reform – well, then we ask the people! Then we will have the administrative reform very quickly. Or: Do the citizens want us to send our money to Greece? Let's ask her! Citizens should decide. Then the argument always comes: That is what Parliament should decide, so far-reaching decisions cannot be taken by the stupid citizen! – So I’m on my way a lot, and I can tell you, I believe that the intelligence of the Austrians is at least equivalent to the intelligence of the mandates here in the house, but rather exceeds it. That's my feeling. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] So what do we have in Austria now of your policy, ladies and gentlemen of red and black? – We have a record debt in Austria, a record rate and many Austrians living below the poverty line. That is why, ladies and gentlemen – and I come to the conclusion – I would like to stress once again that it is very important for us that the citizens in Austria are able to decide and that there should be no room for the blockers and for the casters in this Republic.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e4392	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Kogler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e4413	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! You have sent us these days a convoluted package called “consolidation package”, and I do not at all agree to acknowledge that there are also some – “consolidation package” you have always called it, we know here in the house that it is called “stablety law”. [[Interference of Federal Minister Dr. Fekter.]] Mrs Federal Minister, do not interrupt me if I am just going to praise you, in other words, in the very place where one has to acknowledge that measures have also been taken, where you might have said two years ago, we do not jump over it, not even in the compromise. I understand that if two parties have different views of the world, everything cannot be enforced to 100 percent each. No one is so naïve or at least no one should be. So these arguments are accepted. I can also name it: There is the elimination of tax privileges – we do not think enough, but after all, two years ago it might have been unthinkable. There are also approaches to administrative reform, in fact, in the area of army under Federal Minister Darabos, who is always being bullied. Yeah, if there's a rethinking at the army hospitals once, great, we've been fighting about it for ten years, but now it's done. Acknowledging! But look, you got rid of the whole thing yourself, before Christmas last year. They from the Federal Government suddenly recognized the need for something different and even more to happen in public-connected panic attacks in front of the credit rating agencies. It was you, but you pointed your finger at the opposition because of the alleged need to lift a so-called debt brake into the Constitution without you having presented the package you are now presenting, the package you can now weigh and evaluate, and we are doing it here. But these rating agencies – see! – find in your analysis at least our “consent” is the wrong word, but our – joint assessment. Last night I had the opportunity to debate with representatives of Standard & Poor’s at the invitation of the Chamber of Commerce. And indeed: What are the problems in Austria? – It is the structural problem. It is initially the banking sector. If it comes out in the 8 minutes, I'd love to come back to it, because what's happening there is really enough. It's enough! I'm telling you that quite openly. With our agreement, you can no longer expect to do so if not at last this entire bankruptcy order for banks and the insolvency right are put on straight legs. No consent for any euro if this is not rehabilitated! You've been sleeping this for three years! It's just a pre-announcement. [[It was in favour of the Greens as well as of representatives of FPÖ and BZÖ.]] I am also saying this because you will be sending yourself back to announce all this for the future. But that was just a side window. Standard & Poor’s says the structural problem is one of the main problems in Austria. That's how we see it. The second, however, is the political structural problem. We are now leaving the link with the Eurozone away. But the decision to “look negative” is because these agencies are trying to assess how effective a policy decision-making structure is, how to counter it in time. And I think the criterion is totally reasonable. This is because we are faced with another problem in the country: that we need, at last, a state reform, which the Republic is putting on its feet again, and which is missing! And that's a shame for the whole package now. It's not all bad, as I said, but what you're supposed to understand is reform or innovation – you don't like to use the term "reform" at all, because you've already huddled it – that's what's missing. And I also share the assessment of Standard & Poor’s. That's missing because you're just cutting a bit of a bite around in existing crustled systems. The €27 billion sounds so dramatic, but honestly, we could imagine ourselves in a more innovative way, but above all in a more socially just way with more balance and in a more sustainable way here. You'll be surprised now. And we will also bring this into the debate, into the committees and with one or another motion for a resolution here at the final votes. Let us stay on the so-called revenue side, where, in our opinion, innovation is actually lacking. You know exactly because some of you want more, even you, Mrs Finanzminister, but you have to do that again. For some, a two-thirds majority is needed here. Yes, but then we do not write debt brakes into the constitution without a concept, but we make real concepts, in school administration, in health planning, in support policy! Our offer stands, and we will invite you not to say: A school administration, a health insurance fund for the whole of Austria – and the funding system finally reorganize so that not the federal states, not you, Mrs Minister, or you, Mr Mitterlehner, the federal states, don't pour out 1 billion a year completely uncoordinated on economic promotion. I'm not talking about the other local authorities at all. No human knows who gets how much! Profits from large corporations without numbers! We already have a money for that. This will only be done in 2014 in your world, if at all, because everything that has to do with federal states will be postponed to 2014 until 2016. But where you can do without real reform – and that's the hold – you do it right now, and that's too little! That is why we are putting the counter-proposals on the table, and that is why I do not want to hear from the previous speakers that nothing is coming. No, it's just you don't come out of this case to stand up against your own national leaders. That's not just your problem alone, I know, it's a problem of real constitution in the Republic. And either we're going to do this once the reform emergency is as big as you have called it yourself – or trust continues to fade. And see, I'm right about the credit rating agency! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We have also calculated this only to get the dimensions: In the area of school administration, health planning and promotion alone, it is a dimension that almost addresses what you have in these areas as a whole. Yeah, that's something! That's something! Second point, the other side: the justice gap. It won't be closed. The large pensions will remain completely untouched. That's not how it is! I can't do that! And if you keep making yourself and talking about property or anything else: We are one of the few countries in the world where millions of people and billions of foundations are sent extra tax-free through the area. That can't stay if you're interested in the little ones below! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This package – I wouldn't have believed it myself if we hadn't expected – burdened the lower third of the income class in the population more than the upper one! And then you're making yourself up and talking about balance?- Oh, my God! I also have to say on the spot: Too bad it would have been more inside! More social justice is not only meaningful but also necessary. [[Abg. Krainer: But this is not a correct bill!]] – Yes, it is funny that the call comes from the SPÖ. . We are going to make a request here, which is exactly what it is all about, that the tax justice gap is finally being closed. And then you agree with that and don't go constantly with poster waves to lower the population who still have to do with their taxpayers' money Your poster actions must pay! This is really a nuisance and unbelievable! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. New builder.]] Why do we need the whole volume? - Because we need a room for the future. It is not a question of abolishing more taxes on the rich now, so that you do not have to reform anything on the other hand. I already know that this is the fear, but it is also a question of getting the tax system back there, that we will finally compete in the OECD section, if we want to do so, in keeping standards, that we will relieve the income of benefits – that is to say, the small self-employed as well – and burden the unprofitable income. That is the trouble, this structural reform is missing! Yes, if the need for reform is so great, where is it then? They have even managed that a next government is committed to asking the heads of state for a tax reform. At last, we might have to make a fairer, more innovative system, and then Mr Pröll is against it. - Congratulations! That's not how it is! We will make other proposals, and we will see how you behave.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e4505	Next speaker: Mr Scheibner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e4526	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! It is already common ritual, and, Mr Kogler, I am glad that you have not yet given up the hope that you can bring something in here without yet being exposed to the accusation that nothing is being brought in, as the colleague stupidly said: The opposition is disunity, brings nothing in and criticizes only. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, you don't want it at all and you're not ready for it either. The treatment of this load and savings package shows that you are not at all interested in a proper and intense discussion. Now finally put the package on the table – after a week's review! Mr Cap, if you had shot us through the sun and the moon, we would have done something like this: one week of consideration for such a load package. Then there is two days of treatment in the Committee, one day of hearing and then treatment in the Committee. After that, it's going to be in plenary. And you've already guided us: You can discuss it, but change it, we won't open it. And I have the impression, too. When we last discussed the special session here, I told you this, especially you from the Social Democracy, that I do not understand that you are favouring the speculators. Last time in Loipersdorf, you favoured the stock speculators by halving the tax rate for stock deals under one year from 50 to 25 percent. [[Abg. Street: Casino tax!]] And the same is the case with real estate, where you halve the tax rate from 50 to 25 percent of those speculators who sell their properties again within the ten-year period. But those who have invested in the long term will now be asked to cash out by you. These are also guidance measures that I cannot understand. When it comes to taking speculators more closely to the kandare, but in the package you decide here and which we seem to be unable to amend in the committee, you do exactly the opposite, namely to favour the speculators, it is simply incomprehensible and only shows that you are not interested in proper treatment. [[In the case of the BZÖ, as well as the members of the FPÖ.]] Mr Bundeskanzler, we are also dealing with the other measures. The financial transaction tax has already been mentioned. You have now said again, you are of the opinion and are convinced that this will come. I am excited at how this will come about, where Britain is massively opposed to this financial transaction tax and where you know very well that there is no single entry in the European Union, because then, of course, immediately the caravan of the Norwegians continues where there is no such tax. Mrs Finanzminister! If you want this financial transaction tax, I would expect you to support it properly at EU level and insist that the principle of unanimity is that this financial transaction tax actually comes. But what happened? Not a year or two ago, but now, a few days ago, there was a summit, on 1st and 2nd. March, where a decision on the financial transaction tax was also taken. It is already exciting to see the development here, because one sees what the consequence is at EU level, the Austrian consequence. There was a draft for the Council conclusions on financial transaction tax, which was already very weak. That's what it said: ‘() In the examination of the Commission’s proposals () on the financial transaction tax, rapid progress is also needed.” – Good. The Austrian representative has said that this statement is balanced and must not be amended. So there is no point in saying that we need a timetable for Austria to ensure that this financial transaction tax is introduced, and that we want it to be included in the national budgets, because only then can these revenue be entered. But you know very well that the directive provides that this will be included in the EU budget. However, no measures have been taken or no wording has been introduced in this respect. [[President Neugebauer shall take over the chairmanship.]] But that's not enough, because apparently the opponents of this financial transaction tax have worked more intensively than Austria, because the finally also of you, Mr. Federal Chancellor – I say it again: The principle of unanimity; this could have been prevented! – with a decision, the following is said to be: ‘Works and deliberations on the Commission’s proposals () on the financial transaction tax should continue.’ Thank you, Mr. Federal Chancellor! You are presenting us with a savings package where You plan the financial transaction tax on revenue as fixed, and then you are not able to enforce at least such formulations at EU level, where you can see a consequence of that! Then you do not need to be surprised that we have zero confidence in the implementation capacity in these measures. [[In the case of the BZÖ, as well as the members of the FPÖ.]] That's what it's all about! For if it were so that in all the areas where you can save, where you can take sensible action, you are consistent, if it does not go out anyway and you say, now we need something on the part of the public, and if that is reasonable then we would certainly say: Let's talk about it! But just cashing off with people, especially in the middle class, and writing anything else only as numbers, but not putting it into practice, that's far too little. If you still want to make us happy and say: But the families have been excluded!, then I have to You refer to your short-term memory and say: This is not the first savings package, but in 2010 in Loipersdorf you have tied a total load package of €7 billion, including €1.3 billion in loads for the families. And this year there are over €300 million less family support. All of this you have to take in! But you hide it and hope people forget it. And then, like Mr. Krainer, you come back with the objection: Yeah, but the government back then didn't do anything for the pensioners! – Mr Krainer, I say to you: The compensation allowances have been raised from 1999 to 2007 from € 590 to € 726, for the families from € 840 to € 1 120. And that's what you called a predatory measure, a pension robbery! – Increase today You're nothing, and that's for you, of course. That's the difference between us! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Krainer.]] Ladies and gentlemen, where you are the louder you are, the more false your arguments are! [[New call for tender of the Abg. Krainer.]] That only shows your bad conscience. [[New condolences with BZÖ.]] But where the plants are present, where we would also support you, for example in the area of administrative reform or in the district courts, where it is a matter of mergers, you are already turning aside from the resistance of the countries. And here we expect our colleague, Mr Krainer, not to scream around here while you are reading some comics under the bank, but as a parliamentarian, as a federal politician, you are finally working together with us against the resistance of the countries! [[Further call of the Abg. Krainer.]] If I look at this now: We had a recent discussion on youth protection. Not even in this matter has it been possible to create a uniform federal regime. Yes, what do you think, then, will be at the school administration, at the federal and state administration levels?- Oh, my God! - Nothing will come out! Billions and aberbillions are wasted again for an administration that dates back to the time of the Maria Theresa, where state princes derive their right of existence precisely from this system. Why do we not find ourselves here in order to make a constitutional change together and to stop this waste?- Oh, my God! That would be interesting! But don't make placebos and hope that people will forget your loads sometime again!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e4624	Mrs Fekter came to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e4645	Mr President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! Dear Seers! Put Austria on healthy legs and stable finances for a secure future – that was our motto! [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Bucher and Mr Hagen.]] From the outset, we have conducted the negotiations under the principles that economic growth must not be inhibited, that we must fight for full employment, that investment should not be inhibited, that we do not want to take measures that drive inflation, that we want to maintain purchasing power for people, and that we are moving forward the modernisation of the state. – Under these principles, all measures must also be balanced. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This eventually led to – and we agreed on this, there was no dissent – that we have put in place the great reform package, where we are facing structural changes in order to reduce costs. The reform agenda was the biggest negotiating result in this whole context, both in terms of administration and pensions, namely bringing the actual age of entry closer to the law, but also in terms of the major changes in the funding area, where the minimum standards for funding are currently being assessed. We will then conclude an Article 15a agreement with the countries so that federal, regional and local authorities can coordinate in the promotions. In the health field, where we are already very, very far away with the measures, we have already agreed on a cost-damaging path with federal, state and social security. Health costs should not rise faster than 3.7 percent per year, which is about average growth. In the case of ÖBB, the Minister of Transport has also been able to put in place measures, namely that the early retirement age will no longer be as severe as before, but that it will be retired later on. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Hörl.]] We want to change these structures in such a way that expenditure does not explode, but rather that we take a consolidation path that brings 27 billion euros into this large package for the federal government, in about a quarter of it revenue-side and three-quarters of it expenditure-side. The countries are not ambitious to the same extent, but have to be saved a sum of 5.2 billion. But once again, you get 2.6 billion over the revenue. That means there's the ratio fifty-fifty. In the middle of the negotiations came the rescue of the Volksbanken sector. I have already explained that this was about a million customers, about savings of 17 billion, which would otherwise have become a deposit guarantee case, where the federal government would have cost more than 10 billion. Therefore, the package of measures we have made was the cheaper variant. Together with the countries, we will push forward this reform approach intensively. But we also need an Article 15a Treaty on the Stability Pact with the countries. The opposition has not agreed to anchor the debt brake in the Constitution, so we choose another way so that the debt brake also applies to the countries, namely, an Article-15a agreement. We also need health and transparency coordination with countries. Finally, I am seeking to adopt the High House, this large package for the population, positively for Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e4728	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Arbitrator. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e4749	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! In my speech, I should also like to express what Mr Bundeskanzler said earlier, namely thanks to the employees, especially those in the Ministry of Finance who were heavily burdened over the last few days, because they had a lot of work, detailed work and writing work and much more to do with it, such as computing. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We have been dealing with a financial crisis since 2008 and still with the consequences of this financial crisis. The stabilisation package or consolidation package presented today also has to do with this financial crisis and also has to do with Austria's desire to achieve a balanced budget by 2016, but thus also wants to make a step more independent of the financial markets. I would like to stress this with the crisis because, in view of the borders, we can see how the crisis has raged in other countries and how the conditions are there. I call it Greece, Spain, Portugal and Ireland. In all these countries, we see how it can be and that Austria has actually come through the crisis well in comparison with that. The fact that Austria has the lowest unemployment rate permanently within the European Union also shows that the Austrian Federal Government has managed well and Austria has been well hit by the crisis. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] However, we also have the right lessons to learn, and that is, we have a reasonable consolidation to make without restricting economic growth and employment. On the contrary: We have to consolidate economic growth too, because it is an important help in consolidating us. We need additional revenue from the closure of tax gaps, sensible savings measures that improve the structures in our country in a sustainable way, and we need offensive funds for investment, especially in the areas of education, research and the labour market. As I have said before, it is about making Austria independent of the financial markets, of the credit rating agencies and of all the negative effects of the financial markets, and also about making Austria again capable and operational for the future challenges. We have provided a meaningful share of revenue in this package. And the proof of the social balance of this package is the fact that the rich pay a fair contribution and that loopholes in the tax system that have long been in our eyes a thorn are closed. With the following examples, I can underline where the asset pays its fair contribution: First example: The cancellation of the speculation period for the sale of secondary residences brings up to € 750 million per year. If you know that the richest tenth of the Austrians owns 85 percent of all secondary real estates, you can see that exactly this tax will be contributed by the richest tenth of Austria. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: But of all others too!]] Or the example ‘Solidar contribution’: € 110 million per year in revenue. They come from people who have a earnings over the annual basis of €150 000. These are the very, very big top earners, 20,000 top earners, whose contributions bring up to €100 000 a year. That's necessary. And I have to say, Social balance calls for the top earners, who are very good, to make their contribution during the period of consolidation. However, it is also about closing gaps in the tax system. And I'm just saying, The restriction of group tax on actual losses of € 75 million per year and the reduction in pre-tax deductions of € 300 million per year are important measures in modernising our tax system, including in terms of increased performance. Ladies and gentlemen, the structures are also made more transparent and slimmer. Projects in this respect concern the following areas: Teacher service law, hospital reform, reform of older workers and also reforms in pensions, where it is not just about raising the statutory retirement age, but about increasing the actual retirement age, to see that people can stay in employment longer. This is the big goal of this government – a reform that we believe is labour market and workers-friendly. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Because a few opposition speakers addressed the National Bankpensionists: I would recommend you look at Article 82 of the Stability Act! It is precisely there that with a reorganisation of the pension regulations in the Oesterreichische Nationalbank from 1. An important contribution will also be made from there in January 2013. Finally, let me say something very quickly about structural questions: We have also implemented with the Corporate Governance Code, for example, that women's aspects play a greater role in the economy and in listed companies in the future. This is also an important aspect of women's day.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e4819	Next speaker: Mrs. Dr. Oberhauser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e4840	Mr President. Dear. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! Each of us sitting here represents a lobby, a group of persons, no matter how different, and of course the contributions of the different Members are also to be appreciated. But I think we all agree that a savings package is not a wish concert. This is nothing that can be distributed to his people who represent something, but that is something that you can see that the group of people who represent – in my case the workers – is as balanced as possible and does not have to pay an disproportionately large part. Mr Auer, who represents the peasantry, said here today: Yes, the farmers carry the savings package, but they are hit! – I can say to the workers: Yes, they will also carry the savings package, but they are also met! This package shows that what the government has done in the last three years in terms of remission of work and revenue recovery is significantly more than what has been done by all the federal governments of the most diverse couleurs over the last 20 years. You have to say that quite clearly. We have never taxed so much on income and closed as much of tax loopholes as we have in the last two years, never taxed so much on unemployment income and paid off on labour income. [[Interoperability call at the BZÖ]] That has never been the case in the last 20 years. That means that this is something that cannot be blamed on this government, but quite the contrary! The aim that the government pursues with this package and that also contributes to the ÖGB is that we get out of the deficit procedure. It is quite clear to us that it is clearly preferable to the workers we represent that the money is spent in Austria and is not used for interest services. If I know that you count about €9 billion on interest, and if I know that the educational budget is about the same, then I prefer that we reduce interest rates, that we can see what we can save with us and make good use of revenue to use the money in Austria. Yes, this package also includes measures to be taken by workers. It's been mentioned a lot of it. A dispute, a point that was still inside in the review and which caused great excitement in us in particular, was the question: What happens to the people who go in part-time? There was a provision in the original template that the variant of blockage, i.e. one should take away a blocked part of work and a blocked part of leisure. The lobby of the workers, namely the Chamber of Labour and the trade unions, first and foremost the metal trade union, then took a very massive stand against it by saying: This is an injustice that affects our members disproportionately, and has tried to change it. Thanks to the help of Rudi Hundstorfer, a model has been developed in the direction that the block variant continues to exist and it even comes to a replacement force. That is to say, on the one hand, we are giving people, especially those who work in shift work, such as in metal-processing plants, but also in hospitals, the possibility of continuing to consume the block variant, and on the other hand we relieve the unemployment sector by giving it a substitute power. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Now to the health sector. – That has been said, there is a set number, there are talks with the countries, with the federal government and with the social security funds, as this consolidation path in the health system needs to be driven. Mr Hofer, who dreams of FPÖ – I noticed in many speeches – from the “Wunderland” Switzerland, from the “Schlaraffenland” and always confirms how great it is in Switzerland. I quickly learned about the billions of Swiss social insurance companies, health insurance companies and how good this “Schlaraffenland” is there, and I looked at how the social system actually looks there. There's a basic performance there. There is no co-insurance of family members. It's every power to pay any drug before, and you can see if you get it back afterwards. There's a lot of restraint. There is no dental care. Normal pregnancy is covered. Pregnancy associated with complications is assessed as a disease and is thus shown with high self retention. And employers do not contribute to social security. Mr President, the Austrian system is ten times preferable to me. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and representatives of ÖVP and Greens.]] Finally, let me come to the women's day today. I counted the speaker list: Today's agenda item, the first, a total of 33 people. So far, twelve men and three women – I am the third woman – have spoken. A total of 25 men and eight women will speak. In other words, we have a lot of things to do here, even as far as equality is concerned here in this House. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: We have half-half!]] Let me close with a quote from Johanna Dohnal, which I dedicate to the women here in this house and also the women at home. Johanna Dohnal said: “I know from all my life experience when we demand what we have to do, we will be subjected to attempts to discipline, but with a straight back, this is easier to meet than with hanging shoulders. This is my recommendation as to how statics can be found in the buildings of power." In this sense: Bread and roses for us women!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e4895	Next speaker: Mr Wöginger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e4916	Mr President. Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Stable finances mean a secure future, and therefore there is no alternative to this savings package. A discharge of around €27 billion for the budget from this year to 2016 is absolutely necessary. It is therefore especially necessary for our children and the generations to come to have a good future in our country. What is important to us from the ÖVP in this budget recovery? – First, that the economic location and thus also the jobs are secured. We currently have a high level of employment, and we still have the lowest unemployment rate of the EU-27. The second point: Everything to do so that people continue to have a job so that they continue to have employment. This is important for the overall system, especially in our social area. And it was also very important to us that everyone, everyone, everyone, should make a contribution to this budget consolidation, and that also socially balanced over all ages and occupations. One of our main demands was and is still that expenditure on the part of the expenditure should be rehabilitated, which is primarily saved in expenditure. According to the principle: You can't spend more time in the long run than you take!, especially our vice chancellor Michael Spindelegger has also made massive efforts to save the largest possible amount of expenditure. And the result, ladies and gentlemen, can be seen: It went out of 76 to 24 percent. So we save three quarters in expenditure. The ÖVP has carried out six areas where one has to save and, ladies and gentlemen, where one can also save – and all six points can be found in this consolidation package –: the ÖBB, pensions, health, promotion, i.e. support, administration and public service. [[Abg. Petzner: You left out points!]] Let me also express a certain satisfaction with regard to pensions relating to the ÖBB. We are restricting early pensions here, ladies and gentlemen, and it is an act of social justice that is finally happening in this area. I do not blame the employees at the ÖBB, but the system was wrong here. That is why I would also like to thank the relevant members of the government for the necessary action to be taken to reduce early retirement pensions, because this also contributes to a justice in the overall system when talking about the pension area. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] As it is said here, we do not go far enough in the structure: Ladies and gentlemen, structural measures are being taken in the case of pensions. The pension account is a structural reform in our pension area, and I am glad that we are now implementing it, because it has more sustainability in it and because it becomes clearer and more transparent for each individual insured person in Austria. You can practically see in the future at the push of a button what pension you have and how high the monthly pension is. The I-pensions, the invalidity pensions, are being reformed. This is necessary, we have also insisted on it in particular. It's supposed to be like this: If a person can no longer work for health reasons, he should also have the opportunity to purchase this kind of pension in the future. But if you can work, then there must not be an early retirement on this pension model. This is important to us, and that is why we fully support this structural reform, that the actual retirement age will be increased by four years in the coming years by 2020. This brings an increase of around €1.4 billion per year. In terms of health and administration, I would also like to thank the countries – and I would like to do so here – for the fact that Article 15a agreements will be reached in this area, in the healthcare sector or in the promotions. The transparency database will be implemented and minimum standards agreed with the countries. In the next few years, there will be a ban on salary adjustments in the public service. I am concerned that I should also like to thank as employee representatives, in particular the Public Service Trade Union. I believe that, of course, this group also has the contribution to make, but that wise has been negotiated. And I would like to express that. What we do not want – this is addressed to the FPÖ –: We certainly don't get rid of any district captains. This is close to citizens, which is service in rural areas. And that's why we say No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, [[Abg. Grosz: Murau! There's already an abolished one! She's gone already!]] There are many other ways to save in the administration, but not in the district headquarters. [[Abg. Murtal!]] Three quarters are thus saved on the part of the expenditure side, and one quarter is also on the revenue side. Here, most tax gaps are closed – real estate, redundancies, group taxation – and there is the solidarity contribution and the financial transaction tax. However, we do not have any additional tax on property. This was particularly important to us from the ÖVP. We are protecting ourselves from the house builders, and we will do so in the future. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] One word to save the caputts: I would like to oppose this. We save where it is feasible and where it is reasonable and meaningful. We bring more efficiency into the system. We are implementing structural reforms, for example in the case of pensions, which are also sustainable. And: Control gaps are closed. – There are also offensive measures associated with it. I would like one thing, ladies and gentlemen: The population has a large part of this rehabilitation package, but here in Parliament I sometimes have the impression that this does not reflect. [[Call the FPÖ:Tell me!]] [[Abg. May. Widmann: Don't go with me!]] I can only encourage and stimulate you to agree to this package, under the motto: Do what is necessary in the sense of our children and the generations to come! - That's our job.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e5023	I call Mr Kickl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e5044	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Before I turn to the government team, a few more words about the colleague Oberhauser, who has once again made herself particularly clear by the fact that she is the founding of Switzerland. I know she's not in the hall right now; she's probably just getting off to the station to receive the special trains with the refugees from Switzerland – those who are socially suspicious. It has drawn a picture here, as if Switzerland were a country of departure, where trains drive in the hour, because one can no longer stand it in this country, because it is so brutal and socially unfair. – Ladies and gentlemen! None of that corresponds to reality. In reality, Switzerland has the reverse problem – and you know it as well as I do. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But it has been drawn from the side of the government bank a real romantic idyll. There is no longer much missing, and Mrs. Finanzminister would have told us that in front of the house, despite snowfalls, fried pigeons roam in the air. These fried pigeons may still be in the air despite this load package in Austria, but I tell you they fly so high that they are not accessible to the normal mortal. For you, for you, they are most likely to be reached, ladies and gentlemen, but no longer for the normal mortal population. In fact, there can be no point in saying that there is also, in some form, the balance you have so much strained between what we experience at rising costs on the one hand and falling income on the other. This goes through the mass of the population. A visit to the supermarket would convince you how right I was. Talk to the people who now have in the post the repayments for their heating costs for this winter! Go to a gas station and look into the faces of the people who no longer know how to happen to them when they see the billing at the tap! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] There is an obstacle to talking about balance and social balance, ladies and gentlemen. You from this Federal Government and your predecessors, with your budgetary policy Schlendrian and with your blindness – which, by the way, is becoming more and more blind, the European Union under the guise of the so-called crisis control – have become nonsense with these two components, turning Austria into a red and black debt desert, ladies and gentlemen, a red and black debt desert, where the chances of future generations are drying up, where social security and the modest prosperity of the build-up generation dry out and where only one blossoms – the fried pigeons fly! –: Your proportion and privilege oases, ladies and gentlemen. They're still blooming! [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Hagen.]] And with that, I'm at the politicians' pensions that don't attack you again. You have to imagine this: The Minister of the Social Affairs makes himself the Minister of Defence in the fight for political privileges, ladies and gentlemen, for the political board. All of Germany debates how absurd it is to re-emerge an honorary soldier to an abducted politician. I tell you, the political board in the old variant is the Austrian variant of it. This is the honorary age in Austrian: a scrapping premium for people we owe to most of them, namely the cultivation of these debt deserts, ladies and gentlemen. This is a reward for the wrong-doers. [[Complaints with FPÖ and BZÖ.]] Keywords: Debt desert, debt-sahara. This obviously also has climatic effects that we are in this desert, since you are not free to be affected. This is because, ladies and gentlemen, that essential parts of the tax package, namely – and that is the tragic – are the parts where one could still say, good, because one moves towards social justice, and the parts where one could say that there is at least a close relationship to a structural reform that have the character of government hallucinations. One government hallucination after another: This is not a government, it is hallucinated. And the clubman of SPÖ has had a real hallucination attack in this House a few minutes ago. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I have looked at it again so that I do not say anything wrong to you either. Ladies and gentlemen, but it's like this: Hallucinations are, please, beautiful – I quote –: “True perceptions that are not based on any corresponding external attraction, but which are nevertheless accepted as real sensory impressions”. - Quote. [[Abg. Grosz: But there are tablets!]] We are in the middle of it in essential components of your budget. We're in the middle of it. . I am not talking about hallucination now, about the government hallucination of a health reform. I don't mention the hallucination of a tax for the super-rich. I am not talking about the hallucination of these summaries from the pre-taxation of pension funds. Let's just take the Swiss billion hallucination, ladies and gentlemen: Not only that Switzerland is directing you, you can slide down the bumple, it is now also the European Union that you so valued and tells you that with the Fekter-Seider-Extrawurst will be nothing for Austria in the way you imagine it. This is probably the gratitude of the European Union for what you are planning, namely the Austrian sovereignty in connection with our budget creation, to take it here and to transfer it to Brussels. That is the translation of what ‘fiscal pact’ means, ladies and gentlemen, a journey without return. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I brought you another quote from Rousseau. He comes from Geneva, but not afraid, he is not Swiss; when he was born, Geneva was independent. And this Rousseau said: "Delivering his freedom means abandoning his quality as a human being." You can transfer this sentence one to one to the state: His freedom is equal to his self-determination, to abandon, ladies and gentlemen, even on budgetary issues, that is, to abandon his status as a state. And there, ladies and gentlemen, drive the trip! - I'll be right there. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign.]] This budget also shows once again, ladies and gentlemen, that you are not leading this country through the crisis, but you are doing it the other way round: They are leading the crisis through the country, due to your EU-hazardity.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e5142	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Van der Bellen. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e5163	Mr President. High house! Federal Chancellor Faymann has put the so-called Stability Act, which will now be under negotiation, in a European context – rightly. I also start with a European context, namely the women's day. I've got myself inside the selection of the T-shirts – you know?; I don't know – for this decided, namely: [[Abg. Grosz: Very cowardly!]] “More bosses!” [[Assembly with the Greens and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, take a good look at this! I know that my sight is not as pleasing as that of the Ukrainian group last week, the Feminist group Femen, but after all: [[Abg. Grosz: The Papa Moon would've been too late, huh?]] This time I jumped over my shadow to show you what's important to me. [[Assembly with the Greens and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Strutz: Fesh!]] It turns out that today the “Standard” Viviane Reding, the Commissioner for the EU and Vice-President of the Commission, comments on this issue: What the hell is wrong with women in the management positions of companies, in supervisory councils and in the board of directors? So below, if you want to, at the beginning of the age pyramid, a significant amount of young people are growing after: Meanwhile, 60 percent of all university graduates are female. But in the Supervisory Boards in Europe, in the Union, only every seventh Supervisory Board member or every 30th is. Member of the Executive Board female. We can still complain and regret this for a hundred years, I am quite in agreement with Minister Heinisch-Hosek or with the Vice-President of the Commission: There's nothing that helps – that's why I took it with me so I don't have to go public here – because only the quota helps, for the beginning, for the women on supervisory boards and board sets. [[the speaker holds a green t-shirt with the inscription “Her with the quota!”]] [[Congratulation with greens and SPÖ]] And, of course, we all know that this is just a tip of a huge iceberg. I mean, for most people, supervisory positions or board positions are unattainable anyway, even for most of us here in the hall, there are very different life prospects. Nevertheless, it is an important, at least symbolic matter for the emancipation of women that it cannot continue. And by the way, ladies and gentlemen: In Norway, it has been practiced for years that at least 40 percent of Supervisory Board members must be female in listed companies. And it has by no means led to a collapse of these companies, quite the contrary. There is also a McKinsey study on the fact that the performance, the profit situation in companies where men and women are, as it were, equally represented is usually better than in men-dominated companies. By the way, I am not based on the fact that women are the better people, nor on the fact that women are better managers – I do not believe both of them; they are as hot or stupid as we men – but what plays a role, I believe, is diversity: diversity in companies and other organizations, the mixture of both that gives this better performance. [[Abg. Head: Thank you!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Imagine that we would say!]] [[Assembly with the Greens and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] This European context of the Stabilisation Act does not deny a certain degree of irony. Three months ago we decided on the 2012 budget, a few weeks later the government came up with: Oh, that's not enough. We're negotiating for weeks on something that's partly sound and smoke. I could hardly believe for myself that these hypothetical revenues from the financial transaction tax and the negotiations with Switzerland that have not yet taken place have actually been calculated – but they are: see Table 8 in the so-called Strategy Report, where they actually stand. At first I hesitated and thought I was in the wrong table, which is to say: “Development of deposits”. First of all, I thought: Aha, is the federal government paying these taxes now? – No, it’s our payouts, so the citizens’ payouts. That's hundreds of pages. You won't expect opposition politicians to read it overnight. That is why I have only looked at one thing: the so-called Uni-billion, which has also quoted Vice-chanc Spindelegger today. In fact, three or four times €250 million are extra in the front. However, if you look at UG 31 – that is the entire tertiary sector, science and research – you will find that you already have the same situation from 2014 on again as you have in recent years, namely, nominally constant amounts for the tertiary sector, and by 50 million less than 2013. Please, that's the strategy report! This should be the Federal Government's strategy to provide for once again nominally constant amounts in this sector? Ladies and gentlemen, this is an extremely personalised sector. The salaries do not remain constant. It's a very old time, in part? [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign.]] - Shame! I would have liked to tell you something else about the needs of the universities in Austria. We have top institutes, but you're doing everything you can to ensure that even these few institutes cannot hold the rank they now have.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e5298	Next speaker: Mr Grosz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e5319	Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Today's debate reveals one thing, namely that there are in fact two models of society in this country: The model of society of the Austrian Federal Government, which provides that the people of our country have demised and are tax-numbered milk cows of the nation, abstract tax numbers that can be taxed according to wishes to finance their own policy in any form. The second model of society, which I believe now represents a majority of this House, is that the people of our country are not degenerated, but are powerful, powerful citizens, who should have the freedom to shape their own sphere of life and also to determine their lifestyle. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] This is our model for today's tax debate. Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government, you would have had the power to decide not to impose any burdens, but to put together the 22 social security institutions. You would have had the power to implement 599 proposals from the Court of Auditors, de facto vernacular, in order to finally implement in Austria the system we have known for decades that it is going in the wrong direction. And you would also have had the opportunity to save in your own area. But what have you actually done? – They have burdened people. And that is particularly objectionable: You have at least tried in the person of your Minister of Justice in an area of these laws which you are presenting to Parliament today to introduce the division for corruptionists in that country. Her own Minister of Justice, the guardian of the laws, the guardian also of justice in this country, is caught trying to make the corruptionists out of the Lightenfelsgasse go free, that corrupters in that country are not given a proper punishment, but that these corrupts – streeters and as they all call them – can buy themselves free with money. That's what it's Her Minister of Justice tried to serve this House in this tax package, and this is thanks to the criticism of all opposition parties too! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] And since yesterday, we know that the Minister has once again applied an art grip, namely, by changing the criminal code, apparently also past her own coalition partner, something that goes wrong with the fundamentals, the fundamentals of our Republic: the evasion of professional secrecy for journalists, for doctors, for lawyers in the form that, in the future, the judge no longer manages the trial when it comes to an accused person who comes from these professional groups, but the prosecutor, while avoiding the secret of the editorial in a house search, can come to all the documents of doctors, journalists and lawyers, and can also exploit them – which clearly contradicts citizens' rights. [[Call the FPÖ:Note!]] [[Call the FPÖ:Note!]] And, of course, notaries, ladies and gentlemen. And there are now two variants, Mrs. Minister. The charming variant – also on the women's day –: You are incapable and overwhelmed, and the actual Minister of Justice in your house is Mr Pilnacek, who cheers you in your own documents. And the unchallenged accusation is: They do all of this with purpose. You seem to have not been the political broad side yet enough two weeks ago, and you are also shaking a political discussion on the Wax tree by once again attacking the fundamental rights in this country this week, in the old manner of a Mr Metternich. And that was charming too! Uncharmant would have been a comparison with dolphin, ladies and gentlemen, charming is a comparison with Metternich. [[BZÖ and FPÖ representatives are welcome.]] All of this from you as Minister of Justice, which, I say, should be at the head of a department, especially at a time when the basic columns of this state are beginning to crumble. In a year like 2012, where people's confidence in justice is about to end, where the pillar of democracy and politics is bubbling, where religion and common sense in this country are also taking risky ways to break exactly at such a time You also have the confidence of the Austrians in the judicial system, which you complained about at the beginning of the year, by presenting us with such laws and thus are nothing but the extended workbench of the Lichtenfelsgasse. You are a political officer and not an independent Minister of Justice, and we are therefore also submitting the following motion of censure by Mr Grosz, Mr Petzner, Mr President of the Council: The National Council wants to decide: “The Federal Minister for Justice is hereby approved. 74 para. 1 B-VG by express resolution of the National Council failure to trust. “ We want to have a minister who controls the system that provides independence and justice, and not a Minister of Justice, who is a party-political partner to protect the corruptionists in her home party and the ÖAAB in that state, especially in those times when the loss of trust is great and people are rightly claiming that half of the politicians are corrupt. We need a judge at the head, a political judge who provides for law and order, and not one who is the extended lobbyist in the government for her own party and carries out order work from the two government parties, instead of exercising independence and looking for morals and propensity to break through in this country. If this is not the case, you can save all load and savings packages. In the future, people will be on the road in the face of this loss of confidence! That will come, ladies and gentlemen. The lost Austrian, the entrenched Austrian, who is burdened by this federal government and who will be cut by a minister of justice in his right hand, will go to the streets and take a stand against the moral decay of such a federal government. We are doing this today as a command of democracy and reason with this mistrust.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e5399	The application submitted is under negotiation. The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e5463	Mr Grosz, for the multiple undifferentiated accusation of corruption to a political party present here, I give you a call for order. [[Abg. Grosz: Should I give you the proof of truth?]] Mrs Silhavy is speaking. [[Abg. Grosz: Should I take the proof of truth, Mr President?]] I note that the speaking time for the remaining five speeches in the television period is 2 minutes and 30 seconds. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e5519	Thank you, Mr President. This is the fate of a speech at the end of the television era. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are talking about the Stability Pact 2012–2016 for the first time in this House, and we will already have the hearing on Wednesday next week, where we are talking about individual measures. Two and a half minutes do not allow enough time, not even time, to go to my previous speakers. [[Abg. Grosz: Then don't do it!]] I just wanted to say it's a bit strange when the BZÖ speaks of moral decay. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] I can't cut that note. [[Abg. Grosz: You with your unemployed income as a minister!]] Ladies and gentlemen, even though Mr Grosz is here again with unqualified calls for call: These qualify themselves by themselves. You do not hear it on television, but I think you should really be aware of the behaviour of the Members of this party. Unfortunately, there is none worthy of this house. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] The objective of the Stability Pact is to achieve the reduction of total debt and a balanced budget in order to ensure long-term social balance in Austria. Among other things, these aspects include: no increase in mass taxes, a reduction in the cost of small pensions, real income-related income, a further harmonisation of contributions, but above all the strengthening of labour and employment as a central value in our society. This is taken into account by this stability package. When I talk about employment, I would like to say today, on the International Women's Day, but already that it is very important that those who are mostly burdened with the burden and responsibility for social cohesion in our society, namely women, be relieved once again. Real equal opportunities can only be achieved if we strengthen social infrastructure, i.e. infant, educational institutions, day-to-day school forms, care infrastructure and so on. I would like to thank the Minister for Women's Affairs, the Minister for Social Affairs and also the Minister for Education for her work. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] However, I am also glad that we did not come to an early increase in the retirement age in this stability package, because “Sheer you around” is a trade union action PRO-GE women, which shows how bad this would have been for many women. Thank you to all dedicated women for “screaming ” for their own concerns!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e5586	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Donnerbauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e5608	Mr President. Dear Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Mr Grosz, what you are subtracting for the time being is an extremely transparent maneuver. I not only point out the allegation of “corruptionists in the Lichtenfelsgasse” to the sharpest, but I invite you to make room in the Committee of Inquiry. The only ones that have been found there, including in public reporting, are you from the BZÖ, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Kickl: Bravo!]] What you are doing here is not just a distraction from these results of the Committee of Inquiry, but a transparent maneuver, a successful and popular Federal Minister who trusts people to want to make bad. That's what you keep trying. What did you say, Mr Grosz, about this motion for a reluctance? – Because the Federal Minister Karl does what she was ordered to do, what she is paid for, what she is elected for? - She's ruling. It brings government proposals to the Council of Ministers, which has drawn up its own house, and it also brings these proposals to the House. [[Abg. Grosz: Let us be honest: this is a mistake!]] Mr Grosz, we should discuss these proposals, not a question. One should discuss these proposals, one can also criticize them, one can practice content criticism. And we can also change them; this too is the right of the House. We are the Sovereign, who ultimately takes the decision. But to criticise a Federal Minister and express her distrust that she is doing what she is ordered to do, namely to draw up and bring in government proposals, I think it deserves only disdain. [[Abg. Strache: This kind of rule of law has to be strongly criticized!]] [[Abg. Grosz: Diversion for corruption, Mr. Donnerbauer?- Oh, my God!]] I think the spectators have been able to make their own picture of your idea. It is not about corruption, it is about two proposals for content. The one proposal by the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs to extend the division has indeed been approved. The Procuratorate of Corruption has said that this would be an important tool to free up capacity for the major cases. [[Abg. Grosz: Yes, the law firm!]] But the Federal Minister has responded to this, has taken it back and wants to lead it to a wider discussion. What to criticize? What does it deserve to be mistrusted? The second proposal is on the table. – Mr Grosz, you have been a judicial speaker of your party for a few weeks, and your first act is a mistrust against the Federal Minister. If you prefer to participate in the discussion, you will also participate in critical contributions to the creation of the law, but not only do you express distrust where there is no suspicion, but where we still need support in the judicial committee! Mr Grosz, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e5718	Next speaker: Mr Vilimsky. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e5739	Mr President. On the occasion of the presentation of the savings package by Faymann and Spin- Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to make a very good proposal, namely that this House needs a lie detector. The result of how this lie detector sounded today might be that more honesty, more courage, more propensity, even in the debate, as was not given by your presentation today. I would like to give you one thing today in all speed in view of the shortened time. They're talking about the fact that no mass taxes were introduced. That's clearly wrong! There is a brutal mass tax which is currently taking place, and that is inflation. They have officially indicated 3 percent inflation. The mini basket is officially 7 percent, and de facto it is when you calculate the latest increases in the food and energy sectors, especially in the petrol and diesel sectors, certainly more than 10 percent. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] On the other hand, there are wage increases that either go against zero or make up 1 to 1.5 percent. The same is true in the interest rate field. This means that everyone in this state has 7 or 8 percent less purchasing power per year. These are mass taxes! Inflation is the worst tax there is, and this is precisely what is being produced with the policy of the European Union. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We told you in 2008 when the European Central Bank began to set in motion the curse of cheap money as if it had been printed, as if there were no morning, that all that is being printed here will eventually be taken out of the money cycle. And that's exactly what happens now. And it will be printed more and more – in the last three months alone to the 1,000 billion, a trillion €, where the European Central Bank buys mostly scrap papers from the southern European countries, via the secondary market, because otherwise there will be no provider and no customer for it, except for the European Central Bank. And that's exactly what has to be taken out. That is, the next years, if we are lucky, it will no longer give a hyperinflation, but certainly an inflation of 5, 7, 8 percent officially reported and really probably more than 10 percent. There are no other ways to get this money out of circulation. And that is one of the most brutal, evilst mass taxes that comes from the minimum wage earner over the families of everyone in this country. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] Therefore – and this is also a central point of our programmatics –: Now that the emergency brakes in this policy of cheap money in the European Union and finally to separate North and South Euro, this would be a way of regaining real stability in the stable economies. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] What you've done now is nothing but to have hopped into what Merkel and Sarkozy have given you internationally. [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign.]] This is not a savings package, it is a high-inflation load package. This is inappropriate, and this country deserves a new, a better government than yours, a government with courage, propriety and character. You no longer have these characteristics politically.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e5842	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Schwentner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e5864	Mr President. High house! Dear spectators! Yeah, it's 101 today. Women's Day. For 101. For women – but not only women – thank God there are men in some parties who support the demands of women – the same rights, the same wage; “Bread and Roses” has already been mentioned. But it is still not a holiday, and I believe that today we are discussing the Stability Package, the Stability Act, is also significant for how stability could be generated between social groups in Austria, between men and women. But this stability law does not guarantee that. Perhaps this is not necessarily obvious at first glance, but today we heard in the morning in the “Morgenjournal” that poverty is female in Austria, but that wealth is quite male connoted. You don't have to play men and women against each other now, but it's fact. There are women at risk of poverty in Austria, and men are mainly represented among the rich in Austria. Unfortunately, you have not succeeded in ensuring that balance is balanced and balanced. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I come from the Styria, i.e. a federal country which has already met, where so-called reform partners and non-reform partners are active and have bound savings packages and a consolidation package that has grown for women, in all social areas, in the care sector, in health and education. The regress has been abolished, the kindergarten free year has been abolished, it has been reduced by 25 percent in the care sector. All this is happening to women, and I am afraid that this package you are presenting to us today about the federal states will meet women in a massive way, because what the so-called reform partners in Styria are proposing will be so, I fear, even in other federal states. Mrs Minister, I ask you to look at this very carefully and that you are a minister who not only says: I am not responsible for what the countries are doing, but for looking at exactly what is happening in the federal states about detours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e5921	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Westenthaler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e5942	Mr. Federal Chancellor! Mr President. This package can essentially be divided into two groups, in two time zones: One thing that happens immediately – this is all about reductions in performance and tax increases; so much for social justice, Mr Cap! – and in everything else that is postponed to the Sankt Nammerlestag or not at all, such as a reduction of the government by two members of the government after the next election, an administrative reform does not take place. However, additional labour costs are immediately increased, pensions are immediately reduced, construction savings contracts are immediately and indefinitely being implemented, while the solidarity contributions for service providers are only taxed higher until 2016. This is the social fault of this package. And if the “Kronen Zeitung” – it has been quoted more often today – today titles: “20 percent minus for new completions – first shock for building savings funds”, one has to say: That's it! Already the new accounts break in before this package is decided at all. It's gonna be a fiasco. They are destroying a very special kind of savings for 5 million and more people in this country. That was... I am convinced that you still regret it. You're gonna regret that, and you should take it back because it's just not okay. You should leave that! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] A last sentence, because the time is very, very short, to the procedure, to the Parliament's farce. Mr. Klubobmann Cap, this is a Farce! To set us up yesterday and in the last days, nothing can be changed at all, no more addition can be changed – and today comes You are here in Parliament, and in a few days this is to be quickly whipped by the Committee and then decided here, that is not a parliamentarianism! I understand the President of the Federal Republic who said: Look, stop, I don't sign that, but I need more time, that needs to be checked! Mr President, I would like to mention here – if you listen to the Hofburg in some golden corner: You should not delay the signature on this insanity, which is to be decided here, but you should abandon it and not sign the package, then you would provide a service to the people!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e5994	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Strutz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e6015	Mr President. Estimated representatives of the Federal Government! You're talking about a package of measures today, you're talking about a stability package. In reality, it is the largest tax package that Austrians in the Second Republic need to take note of. But let us take a concrete look at the structural measures that seem to be so good in the population, if, according to the honourable Member, it is stupid – now it is not here – to an example, namely, at the planned closure of the district courts in Austria. He should not have spoken in his constituency that he should have gone to the constituency of Mr Donnerbauer, the justice officer of the ÖVP. Mr Donnerbauer protests the closure of the district courts, Mrs Minister. [[The speaker keeps a newspaper article up to date.]] I hope you've heard of this! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr. Donnerbauer says: “The desired closure of the Hollabrun district courts will certainly not be accepted by us.” This is the “good acceptance in the population”, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, whom Mr Stump spoke of. [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: Yes!]] [[call to the FPÖ.]] I quote Donnerbauer: “Small and medium-sized district courts like that in Hollabrunn” work “by their motivated employees and their manageable size”, they bring “rapid and high-quality achievements.” Yes, Mr. Donnerbauer, continue to discuss! Mr Stumvoll, take a trip to your own colleagues, then you will see how this tax package is accepted! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We in Carinthia are particularly affected by the closure of the district courts. In Austria, more than half of the district courts are to be closed. We have already made a comprehensive reform in 1977 and have left out half of our sites. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wöger.]] Now, suddenly, a reform is being implemented which will be twice as expensive as it will cost more if, for example, we move the Ferlach District Court to the Klagenfurt District Court. The Austrian Justice, Mrs. Minister – and you know that – is financed by fees of more than 100 percent itself. This is also expected to be achieved in the population, and this certainly cannot be called locking up and putting the bar in front of it. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] – Or you lower court fees and do not make a reform that actually brings more burdens. In addition to closing the post office, in addition to closing the police departments, next to closing the barracks, this is another attack on the rural area, on the rural population that we do not want to accept. [[Interference of Federal Minister Mag. Darabos.]] For example, Mr. Obernosterer from the upper Lesachtal: when the district court in Hermagor is closed, he will drive more than 100 kilometres to the court in Villach in the future. Yes, I will look at how Mr Obernosterer will act and vote here in Parliament. That is why we are also presenting a motion for a resolution today, where we are fighting for the preservation of these District Courts in Carinthia, because we have already made a reduction in 1977 and also made our contribution to the Republic. [[Abg. Petzner: Where are we to save?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scheibner.]] We want the Minister of Justice to withdraw this planned closure because it means an attack on the rural area and on the rural population. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Since a mistrust against the Minister of Justice has been filed here by the BZÖ-College Petzner, we will therefore also support it.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e6123	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Herbs. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e6144	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! So if you listen to Mr. Strutz, you also need good nerves, because Mr. Strutz is one of the well-known “buberl party” that has marched up in the “report” this week. And that we now have to hear from you teachings, where this party, which you belong to, has brought such immeasurable damage to the Republic of Austria, is a strong piece, Mr. Strutz. [[Interim calls at BZÖ and SPÖ]] I'd like to tell you that. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Kickl: You need it! Stifler herbs!]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is an EU-wide crisis and, of course, Austria is concerned with it. We are a small industrial country in Europe with eight million inhabitants, and this crisis, of course, also strikes us, but it is handled in an exemplary way. The budgets must be stabilised across the EU – of course also in Austria. That's clear! Of course, it is equally clear that there are inconvenients, painful and problematic. But how are the effects? Are there strikes? Are there any demonstrations? Do mass taxes have to be increased? Does state resources have to be thrown away, as we have seen in the past, but in times of high economics? – There is no increase in the statutory retirement age and full inflation compensation for small pensions. By the way, ladies and gentlemen, we should do something about top pensions. There you can certainly increase the pension contribution, from me up to 10 per cent. [[Abg. Grosz: For example, the Director of Parliament!]] [[call to the FPÖ.]] This applies to old politicians, which applies to the ORF, where it is legally possible, this applies to the National Bank. So I think that, in the sense of justice, we should make an addition to the support of small pensions with these funds. This would be an example of a fair intake, as so many others do. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oils.]] I would like to share this in three stages, Mr Oellinger. The first stage was Loipersdorf, the bank levy – I remember very well, Mr. Stumblingly, since you have really been wrong, you have always said that this is being changed to the customers, that is clearly not the case – the foundation tax or the increase in assets in shares. So that's a really neat package of one, a first stage of Loipersdorf. And now there's a lot of real estate taxation that doesn't concern the house builders. We have a solidarity levy – and a nice greeting also to Mr Treichl, it is really good to know that he will now pay approximately €13 000 per month more taxes and thus contribute to more social justice – or group taxation for corporations. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Honey.]] There is a great deal of discussion, partly also disputed, about the percentage ratio between austerity measures – where, for example, subsidies are also included, the mineral oil tax privileges, for example from certain groups – on the one hand, and fair revenue on the other. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hornek.]] If we do it quite simply, we rely on science. The Institute for Economic Research, Mrs Margit Schratzenstaller, well-recognised expert in this field, has studied this scientifically and has come to the conclusion that at stage one and stage two savings measures represent 59 percent and fair revenue 41 percent. This, by the way, is moving a bit further in the trend, as banking tax has been increased equally. Look, my wish was actually a ratio of 50 : 50. That's not fulfilled yet, but we'll achieve that. There is a third stage missing: Millionaires, big possessions, big assets. [[Abg. Grosz: government councils! Chief Government Councils! Diplomat passport holders!]] – Yes, yes, they already contribute to, by means of real estate tax, through the solidarity levy, through an improvement as regards the foundations, but nevertheless because of the third stage is missing. When we look at the statistics of the Minister of Finance, how tax revenue actually develops, we see the following: 2007 to 2011, VAT plus 2.6 billion, wage tax plus 1.2 billion, income tax minus 160 million, corporate tax minus 460 million. So there's a slanting situation, a trend of imbalances increased. And I can quite understand when Linz economist Professor Friedrich Schneider says that this is not all right. He needs strong words, he even says, that's crazy, we need a stronger financial police. It is about large-scale tests, and a tester, who is also active, brings between €500 000 and € 1 million a year and, of course, costs only a fraction of them. So that's what we need to discuss. I can imagine that we are doing something more in large-scale operational tests. Well, the third stage will be an inheritance and gift tax. I am in favour of starting at €500 000, so there are not the small inheritances meant, and creating an asset tax for assets beyond € 1 million. This is not true of workers or pensioners, but of those who can really afford it. The aim of social democracy, ladies and gentlemen, is clear: A fair distribution of state assets and thus a counter-pollution to the corrupt distribution of state assets, as we have seen. And when the BZÖ, so great tones are spit by the FPÖ: My God, at BZÖ the hypo-corruption affair, or Telekom! [[Abg. Grosz: Mr Gartlehner says this and Mr Jarolim and Mr Gusenbauer!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] They have financed the entire election campaign with 1.2 million; or the FPÖ, the already mentioned Buberl party, ladies and gentlemen, who has marched there in the “Report”, as they all call, a corruption slave has been released there, for example, tag “Eurofighter”. It is clear that from EADS to the company Rumpold to the FPÖ more than €700, which is more than 10 million schilling. And Mr. Strache – he's not here again, every time I want to talk to him, he seems to have his knees shut, he's always gone – because you're caught. [[Abg. Kickl: You're just saying that out there!]] He was the vice-president of the FPÖ during this period and had two companies with Mr Rumpold at the same time. And he never knew anything about it? Yes, who believes such a thing?- Oh, my God! This reincarnation theory of Mr. Strache, that he was reborn in 2005, has nothing to do with a soul migration, so to speak, with honesty, character, responsibility. For a long time now the Lord has been transferred, no man takes away from him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e6303	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Steinhauser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e6324	Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Justice Minister, what did you think when you passed the law on the changes relating to the secret of the editors and the secrecy of the attorneys in the review procedure? That alone warrants every mistrust, I tell you, because if you already want to change something in this sensitive area, then stand up to the debate and give the critics the opportunity to formulate their criticism as well! [[Congratulation with Greens and BZÖ as well as with members of the FPÖ]] Only that you do not recognize the problem that sensitivity does not have, only that shows that you are not qualified as Minister of Justice! [[Congratulation with Greens and BZÖ.]] You have now spoken. Explain to us: Why are these delicate points relating to the secret of the editors and the confidentiality of lawyers' lawyers not already in the review proceedings? What prevented you from doing? Why did this suddenly come into the government template? But I also share the concerns of content, and you always stand up and say: It doesn't change! I'll give you a simple example: For example, a journalist is determined for an insurance case. There is a house search, documents are seized and documents are also seized, which have nothing to do with the insurance business, but which concern journalistic activity. In the past, the journalist could have asserted opposition rights. You'll get rid of them now. The prosecutor can take an insight into these sensitive editorial documents, informants can be defamed, and if you have bad luck and these informants may have violated the silence of office, they have a criminal proceedings at the neck and the journalist, if he has bad luck, is still regarded as a culprit, as an instigator. And you say, It doesn't change! – That’s incredible! Ladies and gentlemen, but the law of the series applies to our Minister of Justice. It follows on every pan for sure a pleite. That's not all. It has begun with the division – Diversion, for those who do not know it in detail, means fines instead of punishment – namely, by considering introducing the division for serious economic criminal cases. This has been the completely wrong signal, especially since you packed it in the savings package. What was the signal? – The signal was: Because we have to save because the prosecution has too little resources, we should be able to release certain criminals in the future because we can no longer find out in all cases. – This is not the signal we need right now! And this also shows that you as Minister of Justice have no sense. The third point is corruption law. You haven't done anything for months. Then the pressure from the investigation committee has become so great that you have to do what. Then what was? – They were too cowardly to do something and did not present a government paper, but said: I will draw up documents and I will send them to Parliament. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grosz.]] Okay, it's a cowardly process, but it's supposed to be. Then you said: I sent it to Parliament! - And who didn't get anything? – The opposition parties! I'll hold on to this. Parliament is obviously made up of two parties, SPÖ and ÖVP, for you. And a Minister of Justice who believes that Parliament is made up of two parties, and who believes that the Ministry of Justice is a service of the parliamentary groups of SPÖ and ÖVP, which has earned our distrust, and that is why we will vote in favour of this request today. [[It was in favour of Greens and BZÖ, as well as of members of the FPÖ.]] Rethink your work! What you're currently showing – I'm telling you quite honestly – is Bandion-Ortner's suspicion. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e6398	Mrs. Federal Minister Dr. Karl is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e6419	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! With regard to the extension of the division, Mr Grosz noted that this measure failed in the criticism of the opposition parties. – Mr Grosz, I can only say to you: You really overestimate yourself! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Uah-Rufe des Abg. Grosz.]] This has by no means been done because of your criticism, but I have read the opinions very carefully, probably in contrast to you, and there have, for example, been praised in some opinions that we want to expand the division, but it has also been said that it is too narrow that we want to extend the division only for corruption, official crimes and economic crimes. [[Abg. Grosz: Mr Strasser said that, in the assessment, it was in the opinion! But Mr Strasser is not an expert place!]] We're supposed to look at this more widely. I'd like to take this inspiration. Therefore, we will look at the issue of “enhancement of the division” in a working group more widely and precisely and will discuss whether it is useful to extend the division to further offences. Why did I think of this measure? – Mr Donnerbauer has pointed out that I take my duties seriously as a member of the government, and I see it as my duty as Minister of Justice to ensure that the prosecutors and prosecutors in the field of corruption can really devote themselves to the big fish. And if you know how the work of the prosecutors looks power of corruption, the Hendldieb? [[Abg. Grosz: I thought these are the hendldiebes on Cayman Iceland!]] You should know that, but, unfortunately, you do not know what the work of the prosecutor is in. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] This isn't just about the big cases. Look at what the economic and corruption prosecutor's office has to do for cases! This is also a case where a 16-year-old contract officer in the reporting register looks out for the address of her ex-boyfriend. Yeah, it's gonna take a long time to figure that out. [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: You've already brought the example, that's fad!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] I'll tell you one thing: I'm sure Professor Sickinger is no one talking corruption. Professor Sickinger has looked at all the officers of the past few years, and what has he achieved? – With a third, we can perform the division almost unsightly, because that is less serious. [[Abg. May. Steinhauser: Your suggestion was only going on!]] The second third requires a closer look. The third third is not the third version. [[Abg. Grosz: Defend it calmly! Keep going!]] What do I want to go out on? – I see it as my obligation to relieve the prosecutors and prosecutors of these less severe cases so that they can devote themselves to the major cases, precisely the cases you are talking about, to which the prosecutors should be better able to devote themselves so that these cases can be closed more quickly. [[call to the FPÖ.]] This is my concern, and I will continue to pursue this concern. But apparently it's not right for you to make sure that we get a faster trial for large fish and that a quick charge is made and a judgment is made. I don't know what you're talking about. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Grosz: Do you suffer from loss of reality? It's treatable!]] – Mr Grosz, I do not know what can be done in your case, but let me just say something, I have also let you speak out. [[Abg. May. Worm: And this at the Women's Day!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] [[Counter-call of the Abg. Grosz.]] Next: If you tell me about the current changes to the criminal procedure, that is beyond the coalition partner when Mr Steinhauser says that this is over by the review procedure... – Let me explain how the procedure has gone! [[Abg. Grosz: Mr. Jarolim said that!]] [[Call the Greens.]] I think I know better than you do. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It was the following: There was a review procedure, Mr Steinhauser, there were, of course, opinions there, as is the case with a review procedure. That is why we are doing it, because what is the meaning of a review procedure if there are no comments? [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] I take the opinions seriously. [[Abg. Grosz: And who wanted that?]] It came from the court. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Korun.]] [[Abg. Grosz: And who wanted that?]] – Yes, have you not read the comments? Please, you are the BZÖ's Judge General, you are excited about a measure and do not even read the comments on the draft assessment?- Oh, my God! - So I have to say! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Head: He's talking about something he doesn't understand!]] Please: Before you throw me, take your duties as a judge seriously! [[New congratulations to the ÖVP.]] In any case, I have received the opinion and the opinion came from the court. It was recommended that we regulate § 112 StPO in a different direction than we have foreseen. [[Abg. May. Stefan: Is it common for you to...?]] We have received the opinion and have entered into negotiations with the coalition partner with this government template. That was also in the Council of Ministers. ==References====External links== Mr Grosz, Mr President-in-Office of the Council of Ministers, decided on February in this version, and I assume that you know that SPÖ members also sit in the Council of Ministers. [[Abg. Grosz: Even worse!]] They voted in favour, so it wasn't over with the coalition partner. We have even agreed to a protocol note. The Minutes noted that we will have further discussions on this matter, including the parliamentary groups, and, as you know, I have invited for next Monday to a discussion with all five parliamentary groups, and, as you know, the Justice Committee is also on Tuesday, where this point is also on the agenda and where we will have sufficient time to discuss it. So I really don't understand your excitement. Then you have addressed me with an unchallenged and a charming accusation. I mean, I can give it back to you: Either you are unable to understand texts of law, or you do so with purpose, with purpose in the sense of a white populism. [[Abg. Dr. Herbs: Previously the latter!]] As I have said, he has also made two accusations to me for the election, and I am happy to present him with two accusations for the election. He can choose who's right. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] They accuse me of breaking the trust of the people in justice, but just breaking with this kind of populism You trust the people in justice! And that really didn't deserve our justice. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Now to the content. Even if the change in the rules of criminal proceedings is complicated, I am still trying to explain it. That's not how you referred to it to search the house. It remains completely unchanged that in the case of secretaries a house search may, of course, only take place after judicial approval. This is completely unchanged. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grosz.]] We talked about the house search. I really want to make this clear: The search of the house continues, of course, only after judicial approval. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] If, now, opposition is raised to the inspection of the documents that have been secured, the following shall apply at the moment: If an objection is raised to the inspection of the guaranteed documents, it is currently the case that a arrest and legal protection judge makes the inspection with the presence of the prosecutor and the person concerned. That is, the prosecutor and the affected are there. In the future, we want to arrange this in such a way that an initial view by the prosecutor and the person concerned takes place, with the opportunity to agree. [[Abg. Grosz: Without judges!]] Until then – you have to say that; I have forgotten to mention that now – the material is to be kept separate from the act, in a safe place. To assume to the prosecutor that they are always illegally looking in, that's overlaid. [[Abg. Grosz: The Strasser ACTs will also be kept safe!]] Let me continue! – In the future, the prosecutor’s office will be able to reach an agreement with the person concerned on the use of the documents that have been secured and the documents that have been secured must not be used. [[Abg. May. Stefan: This is in the media before the prosecutor sees it!]] Now, if the prosecutor and the interested party agree on this, the person concerned can take the documents that are not needed home much faster than it is now possible. That's the consideration behind it. We want the person concerned to be able to take his documents back home quickly when an agreement has been reached with the prosecutor. If this agreement is not reached, then the judge is still on the train, then the judge has to decide on it. If the person concerned is not satisfied with the judge's decision, there is the possibility of appeal at a judge's Senate. So you see, we took legal protection. There is legal protection. And since the presumption in the room is that the prosecutor is looking into it in documents he should not even look into: Please, that we subordinate to the prosecutors illegal action, you are in violation of the duty of confidentiality! [[Abg. Grosz: That never happens! The prosecutors are exalted over all suspicions!]] And if they look in there and if they use the documents they are not allowed to use, that is threatened with vanity. So since the prosecutors are constantly subject to illegal action, I really think it is a measure. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] You see, this is the background to this measure. On the contrary, what you have said, Mr Grosz, is not a easing of professional secrecy. Editorial secrecy and other professional secrets should not be loosened or softened. On the contrary, I agree that professional secrecy should be double-secured and thus strengthened. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl]] On the situation of the accused – and you have mentioned this, Mr Steinhauser – Mr Steinhauser: They asked: What happens if a journalist is an accuser? - I have to come back to the house search again. It is true that a stricter standard has already been established in the case of a court order for the search of the house. The judicial authorisation of the house search may only be granted if there is an urgent suspicion of crime, and it must be established with a very high probability that this is the perpetrator. That means we've already set a higher threshold here. This is to be taken into consideration once. As far as the secret of the editors is concerned, the Supreme Court has taken a very forward-looking decision, as you know, and according to this guidance, it is not really possible to carry out house searches, especially in the case of the secret of the editors. But if there are still concerns about the accused, you can do so in the discussion on Monday or also in the Committee on Justice on Tuesday. We can discuss this. I just wanted to point out to you that it is not really a matter of avoiding editorial secrecy and other professional protection, but rather of strengthening. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e6828	Next speaker: Mrs Tamandl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e6849	Mr President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Appreciate members of the government! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to return to the subject of today, following the competent statements made by the Minister of Justice, who, I hope, have now brought Mr Grosz back a little from his high blood pressure, which he seems to have today. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Grosz: I don't have a blood pressure problem!]] On the occasion, I would like to refer to a few points that have been raised by Mr Krainer, but also by Mr Herbe. Mr Herzegovina has listed the amount of revenue tax increased, the wage tax increased, the corporate tax decreased. Yes, Mr Herb – I do not see him now – it is gratifying that wage tax increases. At least we note that many people are in employment. Perhaps you have noticed that in 2009 we reduced and did not raise wage taxes, and that is why it is good to get more revenue from this tax. This also applies to sales tax. If sales tax increases and we talk about how we can increase sales tax by €1.5 or € 2 billion, then that means that we are making the right policy and leaving people the purchasing power. In the case of income tax – you have mentioned that we have a decrease here – you should also inform yourself that the people who now recover taxes from the financial office via an employee's charge also receive an income tax charge, which is then deducted from income tax and is therefore less charged. I think that if you make yourself here during the television broadcast, you'll tell people the truth, but you shouldn't be insecure. To Mr Krainer, who in Permanence is calling for an asset tax: Yes, it's right, we don't have a property tax law in Austria, yes, it's right, there's no inheritance and gift tax anymore packed in a law, but one thing you already have to say: Last year we introduced capital-related taxes after the Loipersdorf package, which also did not particularly like everyone, namely in the case of profits from shares and securities. We have now introduced a tax in the case of sales of real estate, sales of real estate, and transfers at the time they are sold and the money is actually on the stock exchange. And I think that's the right approach. However, I would like to take the opportunity today – even if time is quite short – to thank all stakeholders, to thank the pensioners who are taking part in these savings measures. I would like to thank all the workers who are working hard in this country, as do entrepreneurs who are still not tired of creating jobs in that country and ensuring economic growth. Not least, I also thank the farmers. It is repeatedly spoken of by the privileges of the peasants et cetera. I am now an unsuspected and not a farmer's representative, but as a consumer protection spokesman for the ÖVP, I would like to say: If we didn't have the farmers in Austria, we wouldn't have healthy food! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I don't think we could tell the population today, we import anything, just that it's cheap, and we're killing the farmers for that. I don't think that's in all of our minds either. Finally, I would like to thank the many employees in the public service, including colleagues who address the matter in a service-oriented way. Once again to the Lord Colleagues Herbs: There are as many operational audits as never before, and the auditors are always confronted with new legislation, even now with the innovations in the Financial Criminal Law. I can tell you, ask yourself about the economy! The auditors in the audit firms and in the trade law firms are putting the door in their hands. To say that's too little, that's just not right. [[Abg. Dr. Herbs: No, no, I didn't say that!]] There you should find out, Mr. Herbs.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e6927	Next speaker: Mr Dolinschek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e6949	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Wer- te Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! A stability pact, as it is now called, which is actually a load package and a savings package and should have been originally a debt brake – this is quite simply bad and contradictory. Mrs. Justice Minister, that's the same as in your place of business. I hope you know yourself from what you've said now, because you've worked here with the tactics of confusion. In the same way, it is also contradictory in the case of interventions in existing contracts. In the case of the construction-saving premium, in the case of future provision, half of the overall reduction will be made. [[Abg. New builder: That's it!]] People assume if they sign a contract that it will last until the end. Now, of course, you can say that there is no fixed amount, you can change it calmly. But what about pension privileges, special pension rights for old politicians, senior officials? [[BZÖ's condolences.]] We know that in those who have a higher pension than the highest ASVG-pension of approximately €2900 gross, at the ÖBB or the National Bank, as one says with the pensions, in existing contracts one cannot intervene. Of course you can! With a two-thirds majority you can do everything, only the trust is then no longer there. But confidence is now no longer present in the provision of the future, and there is no confidence in pension funds either. There you will suffer your next shipwreck. There the dimension of expected revenue is so wide apart, from 50 million to 900 million. Who's going to get into these things that you're planning here? It is also not at all a trace of harmonisation of pension systems. That is far and wide no trace. The officials are retired – they can also be replaced by temporary workers – and they can earn unlimited retirement. An ASVG insurer has the pension provisions and can only earn them up to the limit. These are the inequalities. Now fix the hacker control. From 2014 onwards, the official will have to make 42 contribution years instead of 40, who is insured in the ASVG system, he will have to pay 45 years; both from 62 onwards. Year of life. The difference is also that in the case of an official, the insurance period is the same contribution period, not in the case of an ASVG insured person. If he's in sick for a year, it's a replacement time. That's not the same thing. One and the other, that's not the same. This inequality is continued with this “stablety pact”, as you call it; It's not one of the debt brakes. It is also the same with regard to labour market policies. Instead of an invalidity pension under 50, which is now abolished... [[Abg. Head: Are you telling us now that no debt brake has come?]] Yeah, no one's coming. [[Abg. Head: There was no majority there!]] How do you want to receive a majority? You don't care about the debt brake. On the other hand, revenue increases everything, but from an administrative reform or from a state reform is not a trace. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] This is not possible with the ÖVP anyway. Now you go here and create a rehabilitation allowance for people under 50. The only thing that comes out is that the statistics are beautiful for pensions, because they will rise once, that's not a question, but pay the social security contributor. In fact, he pays in unemployment insurance as much as in pension insurance. Rehabilitation money is to be paid by the AMS in the future. This is just another machine, and it distorts the statistics. That is all that will happen in this area. At the time of the termination of service, you are rowing back slowly now, because you have come to believe that there are many holiday practitioners and many temporary service relationships. Now you want to take this out again. I'm curious about what's going on out of the whole disaster and what's coming out of it. Let us look at this in the committees! Nothing can be seen from a transparency database. There's nothing going on so far. Nothing happens to the jungle there. 18 billion are in there. You could save two thirds right away.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e7027	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Worm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e7048	Mr President. Women Ministers! Minister! It was 100 years ago that Zig thousands of women went to the street on the so-called textile worker strike and sang the song “We want bread and roses!” Good thing about the International Women's Day for women on the screens and you here! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the Greens.]] What was it about the women? – For more wage justice and also for recognition. International Women's Day has always been a battle day for more than 100 years, a fight day for women's rights and demands. So it is today. I am glad that in the run-up, many of the women who are moving could agree that we want more women in Parliament and that we may need measures to do so. Certainly, there is a need for action, for example, of quoting, because if I look so in the ranks, I notice that wherever no quota is introduced, women are in the minority, if at all. And now I'm looking at the list of speakers. With you from the FPÖ you can really talk about the speaker list. They do not even let women speak: neither on the International Women's Day nor otherwise, because they also speak She's instead of the women. What kind of a woman's understanding is that? No woman may speak to the FPÖ. [[Abg. May. Stefan: You speak as the last speaker!]] There's no woman here. Not even at BZÖ. Do you think that's all right? Josephinian is that! [[Abg. New builder: Talk about the savings package!]] [[Abg. May. Stefan: This is not about the women's day!]] All through, or nothing for. Or how's that going? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Neubauer: Today is about the savings package!]] I'll tell you one thing, and I'll get to the savings package. I am very glad that this package does not include the fact that women have the same legal retirement age before, but that € 750 million is intended for older workers for training so that they can get back to work from unemployment. [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: I congratulate you for having a quota in your party!]] It's useful for women and not any pamphlets that just don't bring them anything. [[Abg. New builder: Without quota you wouldn't be a messenger!]] It is for women not to be sent out of unemployment into retirement, but to do something for them. [[Abg. Kickl: You work on the contrary!]] Women's measures are such that employment rates are designed in such a way that, of course, the various wages are also recognizable. You didn't find anything good about all these things. Where is your power in your own party, Mrs. Gartelgruber? Where are your demands, which you can then enforce here? You're not even allowed to talk here – and this on the International Women's Day! That's a shame! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Kickl: I can't hear the SPÖ lab anymore!]] [[Abg. Neubauer: What have you done for women in 40 years? Nothing!]] Ladies and gentlemen, there is a way to get more women: You have to introduce the quota, otherwise you won't be serious, otherwise you'll be poor again with three or four women in the club. You can't do that either, Mr. Neubauer. You're such an enthusiastic South Tyrol speaker. That's you, isn't it? Then look at the law of South Tyrol women: A third of the bodies must be filled with women. Look This is what you are looking at – not only the other laws, but also this law. Look at how the South Tyroleans do it! [[Abg. New builders: They don't do anything for women with the quota! Take note that we do not need a quota!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I am glad that this consolidation package takes into account those women we also have to represent who are not on the butter side who do not have the high wages, taking into account that those under-incomes are not asked to cash to the extent that they are not the wealthes. In the case of capital gains taxes, it is mainly the gentlemen who are affected. Old Men Network – we don't need that! [[Abg. New builder: This is huge! What you said here is a joke! It's a joke!]] We need empowerment for the women!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e7267	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Strutz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e7294	Mrs Worm, you have just said that the FPÖ will in future have four "poor" women here in the House. It's going to happen. . I call on you to take back such terms in the sense of women's solidarity and to apologise for this statement here in Parliament! [[Complaints with FPÖ and BZÖ.]] Our delegates are not “poor” women! These are just as hard-working women and women committed to the welfare of Austria, as they are represented in the SPÖ, as they are in the ÖVP, the BZÖ and the Greens. [[Complaints with FPÖ and BZÖ.]] Mr President. I would ask you to give a call for order for this statement – “poor” women towards the Freedom Party. [[Complaints with FPÖ and BZÖ.]] However, I would also like to make the following motion for a resolution on freedom, which is addressed to the Minister for Justice. “The Federal Minister for Justice is invited to refrain from the planned closures of the Carinthian District Courts and to do everything possible to ensure the legal and constitutional representation of the Carinthian population to an appropriate extent.” Mrs. Justice Minister, you have not responded with a word to your planned call to the District Courts in Austria. Not only your judge Donnerbauer protests media-actively against this ballast. I would also like to draw your attention to this: Talk to Secretary of State Ostermayer! The minority in Carinthia has a right to bilingual jurisdiction. Explain to us, if the District Courts – as your plan is – are left out by Eisenkappel, by Bleiburg, by Ferlach, whether this is not in the sense of the People's Group Law and also constitutionally not in order!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e7365	The application submitted is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e7424	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Schools. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e7461	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! Appreciate High House! We are experiencing just how the discussion is about adapting our structures to the performance of our taxpayers. The one, the government party, the coalition comes after a long discussion with a proposal that will bring changes – painful for one, most necessary for the other – but at least an answer to the questions of time. The opposition, on the other hand, sees nothing but to raise a scream, to build up side shows and to make the usual theater. It's annoyed! This is very annoying because we must make a serious contribution to dealing with this Europe-wide, perhaps global debt crisis. It is such a serious story that she would deserve to be treated seriously by you too. Ladies and gentlemen! The age pyramid has changed, international competition has changed, climate change is taking place, energy prices are exploding, the world's security situation is changing – and you're pretending that this should not result in any change in our country! The debt crisis is to be overcome, so it is necessary that we take action. I would like to draw the discussions to a point which has not yet been raised very much. We will only be able to cope with the debt crisis if not only the federal government, but also the countries and municipalities, i.e. everyone in their responsibilities, regulations, jointly agreed rules. This will be a very exciting story, because because the opposition of the Coalition Government refuses to agree on constitutional provisions, it will be necessary that the countries in contracts with the Federal Government, 15a agreements according to our constitution, impose themselves obligations to comply with things that we cannot demand if they do not want to do so themselves. Now comes the exciting point: In the federal states, it will be a question of all those who believe that there is no change – and there are some who would like to hit the light – in the federal states as much responsibility as we here at the federal level. This will only lead to success if the year by year happens again. Ladies and gentlemen on TV screens: What is ahead of us now is a heavy piece of work that requires responsible and responsible politicians. Don't give up on the cry of the opposition! Don't give up on the scream of the prophylaxis populists! Pay attention to the people who are willing to justify change in their political responsibility and who are willing to explain difficult measures to people. [[Interim calls at the FPÖ]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Our Federal Government – Mr. Vice-Chancellor, the Federal Chancellor, our Finance Minister – has taken this path. We will continue well with the national leaders and the federal states this way for Austria. We need the support of voters, not necessarily the support of the oppositionist. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e7522	In order to make a corrective statement, the honourable Member has the power to do so. Worm reported in word. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e7546	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Whom the heart is full, the mouth passes over. In my speech – the four poor women – I meant the number. If the four female representatives of the FPÖ feel hurt by this in their person, in their integrity, I apologize for it.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e7576	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Lugar. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e7610	Mr President. High house! Before I go into the government's tax package, I would like to talk briefly about the World Women's Day. There is a development here that I consider very worrying from my point of view. In the past, there have always been discussions about compulsory women's quotas, about laws forcing men to stay at home for a certain period of time; one to three months are here in conversation for the mandatory Papa month. There are always discussions as to whether there should be fixed quotas for senior employees. Finally, I have heard that a mandatory quota should also be set on the electoral list. [[Abg. Oils: What you hear!]] Now I wonder what this should be good for. On the one hand, we do not want to discriminate, that is, there is a ban on discrimination. It is clearly stated that discrimination should not be discriminated against by sex. This means that, without the opinion of the sex, it is necessary to decide on skills and other things. But on the other hand, we discriminate! [[Abg. Oils: Who?]] We discriminate against the men with these quotas. [[Ah-noise with the greens.]] We're discriminating them! We discriminate against them by saying: Under a certain quota, no man is recruited, only women. Isn't that discrimination? Is that not discrimination? [[Calls to the Greens.]] Now I ask you: What can a man do if he is discriminated against today that the women have been oppressed for thousands of years? What can he do for it? Why do we have to treat men worse today just because women have been discriminated against for thousands of years? That's why: Stop this quota debate! Stop discrimination against men! We have no problem with equality in Austria, we do not have that. Well, look around! Look You're about what it's about. Look into the boss days, there are enough women who have managed to do it, and there are also enough women who make decent money. [[Abg. May. Honey: Are you saying something about income shearing?]] It is crucial that: The statistics you always draw up do not take a few points into account. First: Women work more often in part-time because they now have children. I hope you don't want to change that. - That's the first one. Secondly, Women work in areas where less is paid – textiles, retail and so on. If women are disproportionately represented there, then there is an imbalance in statistics, no question! But now we do not have to introduce a quota by force. Or look at a construction site: There are practically no women there. Do you want to oblige companies to use women as masons, as iron beers or anything else? Do you want to commit her? – Of course, there are some women who want to do this. That's a good thing. But do we need a compulsion here? [[Abg. May. Treasure: Intelligence test for parliamentarians!]] Do we need a mandatory quota? – I say: No, no, no, That's why: Stop it! Last: Stop discrimination against men, and this will solve the women's problem of discrimination by itself. There is no discrimination anymore, at least no longer in our generation! It may be that the older generation still has some reservations here; that may be, but they die out. They die out, and what happens doesn't make a difference. I, too, do not make a difference between men and women in my business. I guess I'm making a difference between performance and performance. I make a big difference, but not between men and women. This, and this is also the transfer – the discussion initiated here by the Minister clearly shows one thing: You want to distract! One wants to distract from the real problems of this country. Our country has quite different problems than any mandatory women's quotas on electoral lists or in other areas. We have a huge problem with the fact that this government is not ready to address the problems we have in this country. That's the problem we have. If you now come with this package, with this stabilisation package: In reality, it's a standstill package! It is a package that continues the status quo, easily spins on small screws to collect a bit of money from taxpayers – and this money flows one to one into Greece. That's gone! But that's what only the least know. At least, we know that this load package, which we have chained here, has flowed one to one in Greece. The money's gone. We have now tied up a load package for the money that has been flown to Greece at the time of their return, in order to pull people's money out of the bag, which you deliberately and deliberately transferred to Greece, without any comprehensible meaning. If you look at what's in this package, you say it's a stabilisation package; I say it's a load package. But it's true, it's a stabilisation package because it's a standstill package. What we need, however, is not stability and not a standstill, what we need are reforms and changes. We need a break, we need visions for a new Austria. But this is not included in this package. Quite the contrary, it's a suspension package: They postpone the reforms we need on the day after the election. They push this to 2014, 2016 and 2020. Now the citizen is wondering, and I too wonder: Why does a government that has been elected for five years promise reforms after the next election? Why Make You do? Why aren't there reforms today? Why not at the last budget? Why only 2014? Can anyone explain this to me? I can tell you why there should be reforms in 2014: Because you hope that if you are responsible, you can simply forget these reforms; or maybe you are no longer in charge, and then the next one has to complain. That's your tactic! Your tactics are: Delay, look, come over the next choice, and then the cards will be mixed again. You have proved that you do not comply with your own rules. You have clearly proved to us that your own rules are of no value to you, with the ÖVAG. With the ÖVAG you have shown us quite clearly that your own rules are not worth a cent by deciding in the financial crisis that only system-related banks are protected. You've decided for yourself! You have decided: A non-systemically relevant bank we let go into the pleite. And what happened? – The ÖVAG was not system-relevant, you have admitted it yourself. It wasn't her. And what did you do? – A law of its own was whipped by the Financial Committee to enable ÖVAG to join with its regional banks in order to make them system-relevant and ask the taxpayer to return to the cash register! That's exactly the point: They set rules – which were useful, these rules were useful – and then, if you need them, throw them overboard. That's exactly your way of making politics. One thing about what's happening internationally: The ECB has a ban – because we are already talking about rules – which, in my view, is sacred. A Holy Commandment and Prohibition: Under no circumstances may the ECB finance states! And what does the ECB do? - That's the opposite! Indeed, the ECB is going to give 1 percent unlimited money to all banks that want to buy those banks the state bonds of the Marode Euro countries and deposit 5, 6, 7, 8 percent interest for them! You have to imagine this: The ECB is thus indirectly financing the European States and thus the government bonds. Where will that lead? Where's that going? – This can only lead to ruin. This can only lead to inflation, and Mr Vilimsky has already said it: Inflation is a special tax. It is a special tax that affects everyone, the rich, but also the poorest in this country. That's a way you're going, and I haven't heard from you outside in Brussels that this is a joke, what's happening here. In the end, with this measure, the ECB undermines the ban, the sacred prohibition that states should never be financed. That's exactly what the ECB is doing! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You have strapped this load package to throw the money behind the Greeks. They are not close to Austria, but to the European idea. You said it today, Mr Faymann; unfortunately you are no longer here. Mr Faymann said today – I wrote it down –: He wants more solidarity, and he wants a community of those who finance each other. This is not my way, and I hope not your way, either, that you subordinate the interests of the Austrian and Austrian states to the interests of the European states and those countries that cannot operate. That is, if we do business properly in our country, then we should not pay the bill for those who cannot. [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign]] A Federal Chancellor of this Republic should stand up for this, and he should fight for it! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e7718	Next speaker: Mrs Schittenhelm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e7740	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! First reading Stability Act: a stability law that has not only been formally drawn up in recent weeks, but also, of course, has a difficult weight, if one reads the measures, deals with them and deals with them. But all of us are clear: If we do what we have to do, that is to put Austria back on healthy legs so that we can get back on track so that we can get back to the direction of future and security in our country, then it is vital that we also put these measures in place. Today, many colleagues have mentioned, discussed and criticised the various measures. I can only tell you from my conversations with many, many citizens in the districts and the federal states: People understand these steps we take. They say: Yes, we know – and we say so too – that we have lived on our conditions. We owe the young girls and boys, who listen and watch here today, to the fact that we are taking these measures. Ladies and gentlemen! This stabilisation pact is not only tied up, but also needs implementation. Therefore, I have to correct my previous speaker: Not only after the next election, but the first measures are already taking place by 1. In April of this year, and subsequently, of course, other measures. Yes, it must be done now! We have this great rucksack from the past, which pushes us forward, which lets us go this stabilisation path. We need to make this backpack easier – as our vice chancellor said – otherwise we will not have the spaces we need for an innovative economy. If we want to benefit from this scope for the innovative economy, for the economy at all, we need investment in this area. The government has also proposed offensive measures by our Minister of Finance, who has really worked out this in an excellent way with her team, amounting to €6.4 billion. Ladies and gentlemen, it is precisely this investment that is particularly important to me, because it is also the women who are concerned, women who bring their performance and their work, their social commitment in the family, into the workplace. You can do that, they want it too. We have also had the debate on part-time. Yeah, I'm part of the time! Women must be able to decide for themselves what form of employment they take in which area they work. For this we stand by the Austrian People's Party. Women want to raise their children in the family, they want to stay in the family. However, because of their good training they naturally also want to have a foothold in the company, in the company, so as not to lose the connection to have their own provision for old age. We know very well that there is progress in women's employment. Today we have 4.2 million citizens who are working. Of these, 1.9 million are women, and we know that they work very, very much part-time. But 80 percent of women working part-time want to do so too! It doesn't force anyone to do it. It is their cause, it is their desire to be able to reconcile both. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] One thing is said today on the International Women's Day: I wish not only the acceptance of the woman, but I wish for the necessary respect for women – no matter where they stand, whatever age and any professional practice, in any position and geographical situation. However, I do not only wish for recognition and respect, I also wish to appreciate, and this appreciation must ultimately also be reflected in the same wage for equivalent work. It cannot be in a country like Austria where we have a healthy economy in which we have a socially stable structure that women still earn up to 25 percent less in equivalent employment. I know a lot of companies, and the entrepreneurs say: We don't understand, it doesn't happen with us. We will look at this in the Court of Auditors' report again, where it will be listed. [[Abg. Kitzmüller: What have you done about it all year round?]] What's it sick of? What do we have to do? In my opinion, this is a task that we can also solve together if we want to do so. In this sense, I wish the women in Austria everything, all the best. Choose your way yourself!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e7785	Next speaker: Mr Zanger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e7807	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Schittenhelm, you have called for appreciation and respect for women in Austria. On behalf of the Freedom Party, I can express our appreciation and respect to all women in Austria, even though they are often not expressed by women themselves to members of their own sex. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mrs Wurm, I would like to replicate your words very briefly: I think it is very nice that you have expressed an apology to the members of the Liberal Party, to our ladies. Not all women are defined by a quota, Mrs. Wurm. If that's your thing, then it may be. I accept that, but accept She also asked that there be women who would define themselves as women over other characteristics, for example as a mother, and would not necessarily fall within the quota regime. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I know, appreciate and respect you as a fighter for women's rights. I hope you will be fighting together with us in future for the rights of all women and for a comprehensive right of women. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If we are discussing today the burden package of the government and have heard a lot about the mogel packs that are being presented, I can wait for another one, a mogel pack of the Minister of State Defense, namely the 41. A week for our soldiers, an hour which is actually done and which is part of the basic equipment of a soldier. Now he's been shaking back a little bit and wants to replace it with overtime. But since we know that overtime is also quotaed, this means nothing but a reduction in performance, a reduction in training, a reduction in quality, and we don't want to play with the liberals. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] For this reason, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Reductions in this tax package also concern an essential body of this Republic, concerning control, concerns the Court of Auditors when Mrs. Heinisch-Hosek asks that the Court of Auditors be reduced by 19 civil servants. [[Abg. Dr. Strutz: Yes, they would like that!]] For years, the Court of Auditors itself has not fully exploited the amount of staff it has had, that is to say, it has already saved itself very much. And where in this world, there is the fact that an organ that is controlled requires the organ it has to control, how, when and with what resources it has to control. It's probably unique in the world. [[Abg. Dr. Strutz: Perhaps in Albania!]] This may happen in Albania or Cuba or similar countries. We're not going to play with that! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It is still Parliament's control, and this Parliament will decide to equip this National Council, as the Court of Auditors should. By the way, this is also guaranteed constitutionally. [[Abg. Krainer: And that's exactly what happens!]] In this sense, final to today's day: We will not carry these mogel packs that you present to the people. Mrs Tamandl has already thanked many: the farmers, the pensioners and so on. She said: All of them carry this package. - No, Mrs. Tamandl! You're too little with the population, too little with the citizens. They don't carry that! Carry this out only those who negotiate it, the leaders of the interests of red and black, and who really no longer represent those they should represent, but only their parties. Thank you!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e7931	The application submitted is under negotiation. The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e8007	No one is reported in the word anymore. I therefore conclude the debate. We shall proceed to the votes. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Grosz, colleagues on the failure of confidence towards the Federal Minister for Justice pursuant to Rule 74. 1 B-VG. Such a decision of the Council of Nations is in accordance with para. 2 of the cited constitutional provision requires the presence of half of the Members. I expressly note this. I now ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of the motion for a reluctance to accept it. – The application does not find a majority and is rejected. We shall come to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Dr. Strutz, colleagues, on the non-implementation of the planned closures of the Carinthian District Courts. The vote has been taken on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials, the Verification of This request was made by 20 Members. That is why we are doing so. Votes to be used are in the House of Deputies, the names of the Members and the name "Yes" – these are the grey ones – or "No" – which are the pink polls. Please use only those official ballots. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, Members are called upon to put the vote in the votes cast. I am now asking those Members who are voting in favour of the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Dr. Strutz, Members of Parliament, to vote in favour of 'yes', those who vote against 'no' vote. Please be sure to throw only one vote. I now call on Mrs Binder-Maier to begin the call for name; Mrs Franz will replace them later. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e8102	The vote will end. The staff of the House will now be responsible for the polluting of votes under the supervision of the scribes. I'm interrupting the session for a few minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e8146	Ladies and gentlemen, I will resume the interrupted sitting and announce the outcome of the vote: Members cast: 150, of which ‘Yes’ votes: 23, ‘No’ votes: 127. The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Dr. Strutz, ladies and gentlemen, is therefore rejected. According to § 66 para. 8 of the Rules of Procedure, the names of the Members shall be included in the Stenographic Protocol, indicating their voting behaviour. Members voted in ‘Yes’: Fichtenbauer; Of a width of not more than 1 mm, of Herbert Werner, Höbart Christian, Hofer, Hübner Johannes; jury; Karlsböck, Kickl, Kunasek; Laust; Riemer, Rosary; Stefan, Strache, Strutz; Tadler Erich; Inland waterways; Venier, Vilimsky, Vock; winter; Singer. Members voted with ‘No’: Ablinger, Amon, Aubauer, Auer Jacob, Auer Joseph, Bartenstein, Bayr, Becher, Binder-Maier, Brosz Dieter, Bucher Josef, Buchmayr; Cap, Cortolezis scraper, Csörgits; Dolinschek, Donabauer Karl, Donnerbauer Heribert; Incubators, eaters; Fazekas, Franz, Fuhrmann, Fürntrath-Moretti; Gartlehner, Gaßner, Gerstl, Gessl-Ranftl, Glaser, Glavischnig-Piesczek, Grillitsch, Grosz Gerald, Grünewald; Haberzettl, Hagen, Hakel Elisabeth, Hakl Karin, Hammer, Haubner Peter, Haubner Ursula, Hechtl, Heinzl, Hell, Höfinger, Höller, Hörl, Hornek, Huainigg, Huber Gerhard; Ikrath; Jarmer; Kaipel, Keck, Kirchgatterer, Slickovits, Kogler, Königsberger-Ludwig, Head, Korun, Kößl, Krainer, Herbs, Krist, Kuntzl, Kuzdas; Lapp, Lettenbichler, Lichtenecker, List, Lohfeyer, Lopatka, Lueger Angela, Lugar Robert; Maier Johann, Marek, Markowitz, Matznetter, Mayer Elmar, Mayer Peter, Muchitsch, Musiol, Muttonen; Neugebauer Fritz; Oberhauser, Oillinger; Pendl, Petzner, Pirklhuber, Plessl, Prehauser, Prammer, Praßl, Preiner, Prince; Rädler Johann, Rasinger, Riepl, Rudas; Sacher, Schatzer, Scheibner, Schittenhelm, Schmeilenschlager, Schönegger Bernd, Schönpass Rosemarie, Schopf, Schultes, Schwentner, Silhavy, Singer, Spadiut, Spindelberger, Steibl Ridi Maria, Steindl Konrad, Steinhauser, Steßl-Mühlbacher, Stummvoll; Tamandl; Van der Bellen; Walser, Wenninger, Westenthaler, Widmann Rainer, Windbüchler-Souschill, Wittmann Peter, Wöginger, Worm.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e8316	We shall come to the further votes. – Mr Herbert, votes! [[in the direction of the honourable Member Herbert, standing between the bank lines]] Debates of the European Parliament I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – That is rejected. [[14:17:25]] Vote on request for a deadline
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e8352	We shall now proceed to the vote on the request by the honourable Members. Stefan, colleagues, the Constitutional Committee on Reporting on the 1846/A(E) motion for a resolution by Mr Strache, colleagues, on the immediate reduction of the Federal Government, a period of up to 28. ==References== If you are in favour of this deadline request, please send a sign. – That is rejected. The agenda is exhausted. [[14:17:51]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2012-03-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e8383	I am still announcing that the self-employed requests for 1864/A to 1884/A(E) were made at today's meeting. [[Unrest in the hall.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we have another meeting to hold. Questions 10929/J to 10946/J were also raised. The next meeting of the National Council, which will concern business communications and allocations, will be convened at 2.18 p.m. – that is immediately after this meeting. This meeting is closed.
