ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e5956	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen! I'll open the 159. Meeting of the National Council. The official protocols of 155 and 156. ==References== ==References====External links== Meeting of 16 March 1990 In May 2012, the Parliament's Directorate remained unanswered and undisputed. For today I have not been reported any preventions. I announce that the session will be transferred to ORF 2 and the entire session to ORF III by 1 p.m. [[09:06:06]] Current hour
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e5990	We are now arriving at the current hour on the subject: “Close with political corruption: Austria needs a Europe-wide best party transparency law without loopholes’ First of all, Mr Magistrate has spoken. Kogler. The speaking time is 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e6017	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Our Republic certainly needs a restart before the finding and title of this current hour, which not only sets the greens and almost raise this accusation. In connection with such debates, I am allowed to quote the OECD, Mark Pieth, the chairman of the anti-corruption working group on transparency and disclosure, who has said several times and justifications in the last two years: Austria is a corruption oasis. No one can really have a joy with this. And now it is about truly organizing a restart in this Republic, after all the events that cover the OECD's findings. I am not saying that Austria is the worst country in Europe in terms of corruption – certainly not. That would be totally missing. However, I say that in the legislative provisions concerning disclosure and anti-corruption, we are actually a final light in Europe. And we not only get these results from the OECD, which we get mainly from the Council of Europe's working group on combating corruption, from GRECO, and from Transparency International. After all the events we have experienced in the Committee of Inquiry, which the Greens – others, but above all the Greens – have discovered and illuminating, it is only useful if we, on the broadest possible basis here in the house, organize this restart, so that at least once – which is why practice may still be behind – the legislator, so we decide here laws that bring us to the top league of the final light in Europe – which is now the result. The best would be the sharpest anti-corruption and transparency package in Europe. If we make it to the top league, then this is certainly a quantum leap, and we, the Greens, in these days, in the negotiations on the legislative proposals – it is a government template here in the house – will fight and negotiate for Austria to become the best country in Europe, at least as far as the legal situation is concerned. That's exactly your job here, our job here. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] There is indeed the possibility that this will happen. That is why we are discussing this here and today because we want to increase the pressure for the final negotiations again; that is no secret at all. The government template has already done quite well in some respects. I don't want to hide this at all, it has to be said the positive. There are points that are much better than the current legal situation – of course! – which can compare with other countries in Europe with regard to the legislation there. But there are still a number of points that are capable of improving or have to be addressed at all, so that this law can finally be given a seal of quality, where one can say: Okay, now the National Council and, if you like, the representative democracy in which the parties play an essential role – we should not forget that – have learned so much that this re-start can be credible – and that is essential – here. We, the Greens, are actually confident that this can succeed. Finally, it will also help the government groups if we adopt a law that brings back at least some of that credibility to politics and party democracy, which has been lost in a way that no one can be right here in recent months and years. That is why it is also our concern to make a constructive contribution here, to determine the negotiations and to state the green line again and again. You know very well that the ideas, concepts and punctuations that we have already brought in are also the legislative passages, namely those of the Greens, always – and traditionally, you have to say almost – the most widely related to the fight against corruption and the greatest possible disclosure. This is important if we now want to take the way towards glass party funds and anti-corruption. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Why is that so important? – Many experts say that the heart of the fight against corruption is maximum transparency where we can produce it. The practice must follow, but not only that: At the centre of this debate is also the consideration of the parties, the decision-makers in this Republic – especially in Austria, where the parties play such a important and important role in the public decision-making process, in the legislative process. As I said, Parties, I do not deliberately say any Members, just as we all sit and work here or do not work more often. But it is essential that we adhere to this political reality, to the real constitution of Austria, and where massive power in the country is distributed in the political decision-making processes, in the party centres, in the government agencies, Let more transparency prevail than so far. Generous transparency is more than half the rent in any fight against corruption. For this reason, we are also fighting for the provisions which are now under discussion, which are soon to be discussed in the Constitutional Committee, to be reformed here with amendments, as far as possible, that the last loopholes will be closed, as far as derogations are concerned, that further appropriate criminal provisions will be laid down, so that the law can also develop its impact, and that the social significance of this rethinking, this reorientation – I would like to say, hopefully a new ethics – can also take place in politics. That is why these last gaps, if you want to, are so essential. If we remember briefly: A few points have been made. It must be clear that the parties at the centre of this law are as comprehensive as possible, so that there can be no loophole on its own for that reason. Mr. State Secretary, you have negotiated this. That has been a great success. However, it must also be ensured that all that is traded under “donation” is also covered in accordance with the law. There are still some loopholes. We have already come a long way, but these loopholes must be closed, for example, when it comes to preventing generous amounts from coming to party banks under the title “Sponsoring”. No human sees anything of it, because it is still not covered by the donation concept. We will therefore have to find a separate ID card for these special operations, which have played such a major role in the committee of inquiry. Finally, it will be about the control and criminal provisions being such that the law will also have a real effect. And the chances are good. I say this quite positively at this point, because it is only a few points. The question now is – and we are still coming to the political assessment of this process: What the hell is going to come out of here? I also call on Members, especially those of the government parties, to bear in mind that this is a unique opportunity. Will it be a very strict law that can be seen across Europe, where, if we are convinced here – not whether we have enforced ourselves alone, but because we are convinced that the matter is right – not only do we agree accordingly, but we also advertise it and represent and defend it? But then we need these last points so that there is the green seal for this transparency law. Or do you want to fall behind some of the provisions already contained in the government template and stop going the last meters at this stage, just not reach a few milestones? That is the crucial question! That is why it is happening in the next few days, that is why our initiative here. It will be very essential that this exercise succeeds, also in the context of the fact that the question and acceptance of representative democracy must be made clear on such points, quite rightly. The voter/electorate must know which parties will get how much money from whom. That's perfectly logical. I am now saving you the list of what we have here for suspicions about the ÖVP in particular, from the Eurofighter Investigation Committee to the current Investigation Committee. But if donations are allowed – you can also discuss whether it is possible to allow such dependencies – then maximum public production must be made. Mr Klubobmann Head, take a constructive part in this debate. Your party has this long enough You won't be able to stop that anymore. They will not bring this to ruin, nor will the head of state of Lower Austria. That is why I am very confident that we will succeed. We will continue the negotiations in this sense, but it will also be up to you to allow this re-start.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e6147	Mr Faymann spoke on a preliminary opinion. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Mrs Bundeskanzler, please! - Oh, my God!]] The speaking time should not exceed 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e6179	Madam President. Minister and Secretary of State! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I would like to thank Mr Kogler for the fact that he has always made very constructive proposals in the negotiations, which, if one has to say something else, go in the right direction. It was our common goal in this House – also jointly formulated, also the common goal of the government – to establish an exemplary party law in Europe. We know that we have been repeatedly invited by GRECO, by the European Council and in many other opinions to be exemplary in improving one or another, which shows the direction of glass party funds: precise rules for donations; Court of Auditors; nominated auditors who also have the opportunity to see whether what they get is also logical and correct and, in cases of breach of obligations, discuss certain sanctions. In the area of the proposed corridors, it is also intended to regulate the promotion of parties at national and local level. So there are a number of important cornerstones that play a role. That's what it's all about: Our common aim is to make it up to the 1st century. In July, we adopted a law together, which we say we have drawn on the consequences of the discussions that are truly not taking advantage of by politics. We have every interest in the world to increase transparency in order to show that we are doing everything in this country, which allows our framework conditions to act preventively against any kind of corruption and opaqueness. That is a concern, because democracy is revived by the parties. Even if we do not fully agree on which party this is now living in particular, we agree that all parties play an important role in a democratic system or in our democracy. It can therefore also be acknowledged that what parties do in a positive sense can only be achieved if the population feels that it is also determined to take action against false developments, black sheep, processes that have not lost anything in a transparent democracy. This also includes these framework conditions. I would like to thank all the negotiators, not yet for the result, because that is not yet the case, but for the way that has been made possible with good will for us to reach a result, and that is what it is all about. And I hope we don't have this result with time shifts, but with this one. In July, which has been called on to do so several times here in the House of Lords. I am personally convinced that all these measures are therefore so correct because policy has a role to play. And parties – and there you can discuss for a long time who did not do anything right or wrong enough in the past – must agree that if you look into the future, you have everything to do, you must not have to hide anything at all. And if you don't have anything to hide, that's the best case, you don't have to keep a secret either. Transparency and headlamps result in those who think about whether or not they are taking action before confronting themselves with whether they can stand for it. This alone is an important process because it leads to more actions that use our political image. I am interested in this as a German Chancellor, but every member of the government and every member of the parliament has an interest in it, because together we won't get anything in a democracy if young people have the feeling that they are all the same. We are not all the same, there are political and ideological differences – but there is also a common sense, namely, to say that if someone does not comply with the rules, then first of all one has to get on with it quickly and accordingly also the consequences. [[Abg. Kickl: Complete biography!]] That's important. This law and these framework conditions should help to regain a piece of confidence that this democracy needs and that we all need in democracy, because this model of society is only as strong as the people who believe in it. This concerns all generations, but if you look at comments, analyses and studies about young people, we have good reason to prove with this law that we have understood the criticism of the population and have suffered consequences.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e6216	I would draw attention to the fact that the speaking time of all other participants in the current hour is 5 minutes each. Mr Klubobmann, Dr. Cap. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e6240	Madam President. High house! I believe that today there is an opportunity for a fundamental discussion, and that is why we are all interested in the fact that parliamentary democracy, and the parties are part of this parliamentary democracy, is once again gaining acceptance. Of course, we also need to contribute to this, and therefore there is this effort to find legal regulations that are so effective and guarantee that there are no loopholes and gaps in fact, so that, due to the effectiveness, this acceptance is also available. There, I think, can already be a contribution, as we are dealing with each other, here in the house, but also the government, that is, legislative and executive, together. There must be fairness, and we should be taken together to fight cleanliness in politics. Cleanliness not only affects politics but also affects parts of the economy. They have also been affected by only parts of politics in the past. Individuals are sometimes affected as individuals who have enriched themselves. The Committee of Inquiry here in Parliament, where one can often express a different opinion on the different methods, does, as many other committees of inquiry also do, this necessary work in order to ensure cleanliness in order to restore the foundations of this law. Yes, it is this Parliament's control task. This is why we are fighting for external communication, as well as for external communication. be of what we do here, this is presented as what it is supposed to be and what it is for the most part: The fight for this renewal of parliamentary democracy, of the House, but also of the parties. This must serve to ensure that there is no escape on the part of voters – due to legitimate criticism and protest of many voters – either to the non-electoral position or to any obscurant such as the pirates or other associations, where no human being knows beforehand what they want, where, while they are candidates, no one knows what they want, and if they have really been elected somewhere, no one knows what they want. So that's not the solution. My request would also be that we do not give up the hope that this will not be a three-party, but perhaps even a four- or five-party union – I still hope – that this signal will be broadcast here. There are now many positive points in this bill – and the previous speaker, Mr Kogler, has stressed this too. I even claim that it is comprehensively positive, and it really gives this requirement for transparency the crucial area. One has to look at these accounting obligations alone, which will exist in the future, where in fact everything is concerned, both in revenue and in expenditure. That is comprehensive. I am saying that this also applies to a code for the economy, because what was shown here in the parliamentary committee of inquiry also concerns parts of the economy. They can't say goodbye, Telekom and so on. They can't say goodbye! It is not true that the centre of corruption in Austria is located in the parties and nowhere else – wrong. That goes far beyond that. And it's not everyone, but it's a matter of individuals. And what we have to pay attention to is that we are working on a system that does not have a chance for these individuals to drive their inconsistencies and the Call from all of us to get into the dirt here, and this also includes the economy. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] If we succeed, it is not only a strengthening of the House and the parties, but also a strengthening of democracy for which we are fighting in this way. As a result, there will not be these eternal debates, where the surrogates to parliamentary democracy are, how to supplement this and that, because nothing works anymore, and how many sit inside and whether they are less or more. This would be a sign that again, with this acceptance, we will have greater participation in the elections, more employees in the parties, and that it will be considered an honor to be a member of a party, that it will be considered an honor to cooperate in a party, and ultimately everyone sees a sense of participating in the design of democracy – also in parties, in related organisations, in trade unions, in the organizations of the economy wherever – that there is still an operational, functional political system in Austria. Then we are competitive at European level, then we are able to act if there are crises, such as the financial and economic crisis, and then we are able to defend, not only and expand, this social state, this welfare state, this functioning market economy in Austria. And that's why I'm asking: Everyone should be involved to ensure that this law is effective and credible, as far as possible, all those who are represented here in the house!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e6301	Mr Klubobmann's head is next spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e6325	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr Kogler, if you quote an OECD expert who is supposed to have called Austria a corruption case, I assume that you share his opinion, otherwise you would not quote it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber.]] I do not share this opinion, and if you talk to the experts of GRECO, that is, the Commission that is located at the Council of Europe and examines precisely these areas in the individual Member States, then these experts will tell you: Yes, there is also corruption in Austria, and unfortunately also at the interface of politics and business, but there is no more and no less corruption in Austria, as these experts tell you, than in other, comparable, developed countries. And that's what I'm holding back from your quote. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Dr. Cap.]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber.]] Ladies and gentlemen, there is this problem, so we do not need to discuss it away. I don't want to talk about it, either, but we don't need to make our country worse than it is. And you did that indirectly. [[Further calls of the Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber.]] If we, ladies and gentlemen, are of the opinion, and I believe that parties are the backbone of democratic organizations, if we believe that democracy is the basis for freedom and prosperity in a country, then we must also confess to the financing of the parties as the backbone of democracy! In contrast to your comment, Mr Kogler, I would like to say that I am in favour of a dual financing of the parties, namely public funding on the one hand, but also of a private financing rail in the form of donations or economic activity by parties on the other, because we do not want the parties fully dependent on the economy, but we do not want exclusively state parties. This duality ensures the parties the greatest possible independence, including finally by the public authorities. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber.]] It is also a right of citizens, and thus a right of citizens, ladies and gentlemen, to be allowed to spend money on parties, not only to confess to a party, but also to support this party financially. [[Further call of the Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber.]] This is a civil right, ladies and gentlemen, and up to a certain size order, these people also have a right to remain anonymous – but of course only up to that border from which one should fear that these people with this donation will also have a certain interest in buying themselves a political convenience somewhere. But with a few hundred euros you can't. That is why it makes sense, and that is what experts like Dr. Sickinger say that there should be such a limit for the anonymity of donations. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Dr. Cap.]] [[Intervocations with the Greens and the Abg. Dr. Strutz.]] But, of course, you are right, Mr Kogler, and I believe we agree, even if you say that the best way to combat corruption is transparency. That is why we are working together on this law. I, like Mr Cap, hope that we will succeed in bringing about this law with more than three parties in that country, so that, as far as possible, a broad consensus can be reached on this law. The signs are not bad at all. Again: The parties are essential for our democracy, whose funding is transparent, but it has no reason to go through it when it comes to creating this transparency. The goal cannot be to practice shika in parties, but the goal must be to prevent corruption through transparency in the future. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We are all in favour of adopting this law as soon as possible in this House. We are also in favour of including federal, state and local authorities in this law. This has also been recommended to us by this Council of Europe Commission. But, Mr Kogler, a little bit of a respect for the Greens and a little self-righteous, it is already if you believe that only if the Greens vote in favour, then this law has a seal of goodness. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: That says the experience!]] This law would also be a very good law if the Greens were not in it, but I would like you to do it – but not because of the seal of goodness. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] Last sentence, Madam President: We need this law, but, ladies and gentlemen, for acting by us politicians can never be the rule. The moral demands on our activities must be higher than only in the case of legal regulations!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e6448	Next, Mr Kickl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e6469	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! At the beginning, allow me a brief comment, namely that it is significant for this Chancellor to set priorities, that at a time when the European currency, which has always been sold to us as a rescue instrument and the vehicle for the future, is de facto on the abyss, and we do not know what will be in the next few months, does not find it worth addressing with a word this crisis-like development. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Gäßner: The Lord has nothing to say about transparency!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Head.]] You could have thought at least about the currency you want to pay off party financing next year. You have obviously already packed between red and green in the meantime, that there should be an increase. One thing, ladies and gentlemen, is interesting in such debates. You always have to listen carefully to what is being said, and then you have to listen carefully to what is not said. [[Call the SPÖ: It's not going on anymore!]] What has not been lost in any of the previous speakers – and that cannot be a coincidence – is the question of public party funding. That was such an important point that suddenly had to enter into a matter where he was not supposed to be inside. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Jarolim.]] Now he suddenly doesn't matter anymore, ladies and gentlemen. And then I put my ears on and get stout, because this indicates an increase in this public party promotion. You want to unpack yourself under the spell, red and green, and the screenplay for this is written in Vienna. That's how it looks! – From the outset, the Freedom Party has said that there will be no legislative decision here with us, where under the rule only one cent more of the costs for the population will come out of the resources of public party funding – not a cent more. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I say quite frankly to you: To think only about how the coalition did it at the beginning of this debate is an evil in times like this, where the burden gap on the Austrian population is being lowered, in order to supposedly save something in Europe, which is no longer to be saved. And now we have been running after you for weeks, Mr State Secretary, because we want to have an official calculation of this zero-sum game, something that has the character of a document, something with letter and seal, ladies and gentlemen! [[Interlocutory note by Secretary of State Dr. Ostermayer.]] We would like to make a statement by the Federal Chancellor and Mr Vice-Chancellor with the signature that this will no longer cost the citizen any more. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That will not be a problem at all, ladies and gentlemen. Do you know what I got from the government? – This is the original document, including the demolition edge, which is also original. [[The speaker shall keep a document up to date.]] A cash desk, ladies and gentlemen, which is pushed over the table in the course of the negotiations. Seven lines without title, that is the calculation of the Federal Government, where one should then rely that this is a zero sum game, ladies and gentlemen. Well, if this is your approach to the question of party transparency and the question of financing from public funds, then good night, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Krainer.]] That's why I'm so skeptical because I know the computing skills of the SPÖ. There we have a Minister of Defense, who has calculated the most expensive variant of the German army, namely the professional army, until it has become the cheapest variant. It's a mogel pack. The same thing we're going to experience, I'm prophesying to you. Then we have an ORF general director who calculates the most expensive of all variants, namely the move to the St. Marx area, until it looks under the line as if it were the cheapest variant. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brosz.]] With the boat, with this Mr. ORF general director, Mr. Media State Secretary Ostermayer, where there are dubious land speculations on this St. Marx site, where the SPÖ sits in the boat with any letterbox companies located on the Cayman Islands and on the Channel Islands, and where one obviously tries to wash money with these dubious companies, and where the suspicion of party financing is also close to SPÖ. There is a scepticism, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Now I am still telling you something about the argument of the election cost limitation because you are always saying that the FPÖ is against it because it wants to exceed that. It may hurt you in your honor, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, but we don't need €7 million to chase you off the Chancellorship. It's a lot, much cheaper. Maybe that hurts you, but that's a fact. [[Abg. May. Gaßner: Mr. Kickl can't hurt me!]] Even if we had the money and there was no cover: None of us want to spend €7 million. This is not necessary to limit you, ladies and gentlemen. So you shouldn't worry, but you should rather ask yourself at the Almdudler couple in your federal office, which shopping policy they have, that it's all so expensive. [[Cheerfulness at FPÖ and BZÖ]] What we don't want is this mogel pack you're presenting. 7 million caps are also called 7 million lids in the federal states – in Vienna, in Lower Austria, in Upper Austria, in all nine federal states 7 million caps upper limit. That is not a contribution to sparing, just to mention an example, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And by the way, much of what makes a campaign central is not foreseen in the list of your electoral instruments. [[President-in-Office of the Council. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] [[Abg. May. Gäßner: It's out!]] This has nothing to do with cleanliness, honesty and sparing. And mogel packs we won't decide just to do you a favor.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e6652	Now Mrs. Klubobfrau Dr. Glawischnig-Piesczek is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e6673	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Klubobmann Kopf has found that Werner Kogler used the term “corruption case” for Austria. One thing, I think, is undisputed: As far as the legal systems relating to party finances are concerned, we are indisputably at the end of the OECD comparison! There may be countries with less or more corruption than Austria – but there are definitely countries with more withdrawal culture than in Austria, Mr President Graf! [[Assembly with the Greens and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Head.]] No, just think a little bit about it, because the withdrawal culture, as the ÖVP imagines, is one where appeals to the propriety. But in the case of what comes out of proposals, one must first commit a breach of the constitution and then take out another sentence. So I'd put the level where one resigns a little further down, Mr. Klubobmann. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Head.]] Yes, but in fact we wanted to discuss the disclosure of party finances, the transparency law again more specifically, and there has already been a very interesting development, and I would like to talk about it again today. On and on, we were all on a very good path here. I think it wouldn't have been a problem at all until the 1st century. July to adopt a strict and a good law. And here we are not so presumptuous that we say the Greens are the only ones who could miss a seal of goodness here, but it is simply a fact that we Greens want the strictest regulations. And if you look at the individual positions that existed in the negotiations, you can see: It's going to be very interesting! I would like to make two points once again. The Electoral Cost Limitation is not only a question of the private treasure of the parties, but also a question of public funds. It is also about showing sparingness and saving the citizen and the citizen that they are increasingly expensive, increasingly equipped to fight. I saw this in Carinthia: Sometimes weekly newspapers came out twice, so that in the case of listings with BZÖ and FPK, or whatever that was then, the outcome would be. The citizen has no desire to do so. And precisely in this point of the negotiations, where we had the electoral cost limitation already fixed under the roof and specialist, there are now again some attempts, surprisingly especially by the FPÖ, in fact unit with the ÖVP, to change this because one does not want this electoral cost limitation. And then I wonder, Why is that? [[Abg. Kickl: I just explained that to you!]] The abstract excuses are found here: Now it's too high again. – How would you like it, Mr Kickl: 5 million? 4 million? [[Abg. Kickl: Don't you think that's too high?]] We agree with everything, but we need an election cost limitation. These sums are no longer acceptable! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I remember 2006, the last regular choice where the ÖVP has stated, €7 million will spend it, and wherever the SPÖ has indicated, €7 million will spend it. The ÖVP has actually spent 17 million, and the SPÖ has spent 14 million €. This is a competition that no one needs in Austria anymore. And it has to be said clearly: Who then are the parties that want this, and who is it who does not want it? If you decide a law with the FPÖ, then you will certainly not have an election cost limitation in this law. And we don't want that! – This is the “green seal” by the way! That is exactly what I mean: the strictest regulations! The same applies to the consequences. – There must be consequences in the event of violations. There must be severe penalties, otherwise it will become a cavalier’s offence, if intentional – not only because of a mistake, but really intentional! – illegal money is transferred to a party. I can already imagine that it is difficult for a party that is not even capable of filling out an electoral paper properly to do something like this, since I understand that it is a problem in some form. But still: Precision, i.e., respectability and in the event of violations of strict individual penalties, is one of the basic prerequisites that this whole model can actually work. But, interestingly, there is now a brake action in the negotiations, from the FPÖ. But also the ÖVP is again and again in the direction: Where there's something to water, we're with it! That's exactly the point we're standing in front of now! We now have to make a decision: Do we want a strict law or a watered one, with which the trust of the population cannot be restored afterwards? In conclusion: I think it is possible to actually start a new start here, but with fairness! With honesty and also with the much-quoted propriety, with propriety. I don't like this concept, I'm more concerned with fairness. – But in order to ensure that, we need not only open party finances, but also a much more open approach when people make mistakes in politics. If something has once gone wrong, if you may have done something deliberately wrong, then withdrawals are recommended. Then a party that describes itself as a “cleanness party” must also have the courage to force a person to resign, which in fact has completely disqualified himself in the eyes of the population and of many people as the third National Council President!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e6766	Mr Klubobmann Bucher is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e6787	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Bundeskanzler and Mr Kopf, I think you both have not taken the situation right yet. I believe that you still show too little seriousness when it comes to finding out not only these corruptions in Austria, but also to fighting, because the image that the population in Austria is currently admittedly also of parts of the private economy, but above all of politics, is, Mr Kopf and Mr Bundeskanzler, not only lacking, but disastrous. [[Abg. Head: From BZÖ has!]] [[BZÖ's condolences.]] This picture is disastrous. That's why I don't understand how red and black play it down all the time. You have to feel that too, especially since you can read it daily in the newspapers, where political and political irration is constantly mentioned. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the coalition parties, why not take this seriously or take it seriously? The results of the Committee of Inquiry give us constant evidence that there is a need for action, that we have to fight seriously against corruption in our country and that we need clear rules so that something like this can no longer happen in the future. That is why we are so disappointed that, despite beautiful words and good intentions, it is not possible to implement them in action. You're just constantly talking about everything being the best and having great intentions, but basically, you're not really talking about it. You are still concerned about cutting as much money as you can for your parties and running post chess and party propaganda in Austria, as is the case every day. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Mr. Federal Chancellor, you represent our country outside the national borders. Please note and take seriously what European newspapers report about Austria! It is found in the “Neue Zürcher Zeitung” of the 12th century. June 2012 – please read it! – under the heading ‘Austrian parties and the principle of performance’: "The euro is on the brink, the national debt and deficit ratio is far too high, but only weeks ago a restructuring package became over 27 billion. € strangled – but it's about your own grain, saving for Austria's parties is a foreign word. And that, although they are anyway being subsidized world wide next to Japan.” Federal Chancellor! We are currently giving this picture within the European Union! I do not wonder that you have to go in and out in Brussels under the carpet and do not trust to cut on the table and represent your own positions. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Yes, democracy should be worth something to us, Mr Kopf – no question at all, we are also standing there. – but must democracy in our country be worth €170 million in taxpayers? I'll ask you that! 170 million euros?- Oh, my God! Isn't it possible to pay 70 hard-earned tax millions a year for the parties in our country? Can't we try to save €100 million a year, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen? The fantasies would be great, I would now ask every single person here the question of what could be done with €100 million per year better for our population. There would be countless proposals. So we are going to reduce the promotion of the parties, ladies and gentlemen, and not to invent corridors and continue to raise the tax millions for the parties here, which is really the case! [[OBJECTIVES]] If you read this bill, which you have presented here, in detail, ladies and gentlemen, then you'll find out that under the rule a higher party promotion actually comes out and no lower one. In view of the economic situation, given the budgetary situation, I feel that this is a bad thing for the citizens of our country, ladies and gentlemen, in view of the poorer situation. Therefore: Think about the seriousness and responsible policy in our country and lower the promotion of parties!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e6860	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Herbs. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e6881	Madam President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Government Group! I'll come to Mr Bucher a little later. – I am still quite consterned by the threat of Mr Kickl. He is calling for a break in the German Chancellor's Rules of Procedure here, saying that he should speak on another subject. – You are completely out of the brink and band, ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the FPÖ.]] The transparency package also provides a list and presentation of professional incomes. This is as similar as in Germany. That's a good thing. And professional drawings, ladies and gentlemen, have always been known. Mr. Strache, you can still be so artificially roaring at your state party, the highly stacked name “lawyer” of Dr. Graf is clearly proven! There are dozens of electoral lists. And do you know, ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ, what reigns at that time were FPÖ General Secretarys who signed this? – For example, FPÖ Secretary-General Karl-Heinz Grasser, FPÖ Secretary-General Walter Meischberger and FPÖ Secretary-General Peter Westenthaler. So the circle closes over and over again, Mr. Strache, and we come back to the root of the scandals. [[Between call of the Abg. Ing. Westenthaler.]] [[Abg. Strache: who candid as a sociologist!]] In the media, ladies and gentlemen, there are a number of examples where Mr Graf is called a lawyer. For example, in the newspaper “Die Presse” already in 2002, in the issue of 7. September: "Graf, by appeal lawyer, but says immediately: “All is covered by law.” You did that right at the time, Mr. Graf, or you, Mr. Strache? [[Abg. Neubauer: Fuckin' in there!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] Or: ==References====External links== February 2007: “The Wiener Rechtsanwalt is a member of the German National Civil Society of Olympia.” At that time, you complained about what every decent person would do and said: I'm not a lawyer at all!Unknown term type: "%s".? Or: ==References====External links== May 2012: “Graf is a learned lawyer and, as a result, is one of the intellectual hanging signs of the FPÖ.” Well, thank you! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: 11 700 € Pension for Mr. Klima!]] Of course, it is also necessary to make transparent what makes a member of this House so businessable. And that Mr Graf has tried to prevent the ORF “report” where this scandal has become transparent and has been exposed, with an interim order – this is an attack on the freedom of the media! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Klima-Pension!]] And then you have the forehead, Mr. Kickl, and take the word “ORF” into the mouth?! - Well, be ashamed! That's a lot of what you've delivered here! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Kickl: You can't call the ORF!]] Look, Mr Strache, whether this "foundation-causa" will ultimately have consequences for civil or criminal law is not at all the point. – Morality, propriety and respect for the older generation: That is the decisive! And that's where the population has made a final picture. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] Of course, they do enormous damage to the image of politics as well as to the image of the parties. We all promote understanding and understanding of the population that we need public party funding. And free to Winston Churchill: Democracy is the worst of all forms of state! – but there is no better thing either! Democracy is once made up of parties. And they need some equipment. Of course, that's supposed to be transparent. That strengthens credibility. And there are revenue to be presented, expenditure and participations. This requires a constitutional majority in the control area for the federal states. And I am very glad that the Greens are very constructive here. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: What about the climate-pension? 11 700 €!]] Because here I hear the calls from the BZÖ and also a little the accusations from the Lord Booker reflect: You have to keep in mind, of course, the BZÖ is not a party, that is a group of evangelists. And they say, of course, easily: Get away with all of them, we don't need all of that! But we're not going to go to a 3-percent level. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: What about the climate-pension? Multimillionaire climate! What about Mr. Klima? Why don't you say anything to Mr Klima? Or to Mr. Schieder? Mr. Schieder is ordering a new car, a BMW!]] To FPÖ, to the party of alleged saubermen: the "Stiftungs-Graf", the "Part-of-the-Game-Scheuch" and so on. – Well, that's interesting: They don't want an election cost limitation at all! Well, how do you imagine that in the future? Do you want to continue file for citizenship to the best bidder and then use this money to record posters where it stands: Get out with the foreigners!Unknown term type: "%s".? [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: What about Mr Klima, the multimillionaire climate, or the State Secretary, who is ordering a new car?]] 7 million €, that's all right, this should also apply to the countries. Look, ladies and gentlemen, we are now trying to enforce transparency here, and that is a way where we can win back effortlessly in a piece of trust. But this is naturally counter-carriaged if there are as careless, characterless and shameless processes and chair glues as Mr Graf is. [[Abg. Kickl: Hello! Here, I found it. He lives in Wannlake. Here, I found it. He lives in Wannlake. Now I am curious, Madam President.]] All efforts are being made to improve the image of politics. – Shame, Mr Graf, and you too, Mr Strache!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e7094	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Lopatka. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e7116	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Dear Members of the Government! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Whether we are doing a good service, if we are constantly again and again to each other shamelessness, inconsistency until I don't know what's going on, I want to doubt. It would be right for all of us to tear ourselves up in order to come to terms here with common rules. Only then will the party democracy in Austria regain its reputation – and not if we shut down each other, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Not at all! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Then: What is the role and task of political parties? And there I am glad that I am in Austrian party democracy and not in the American. I do not want parties, because they do not have financial resources, to come only to election clubs, where activities are set up only more shortly before the election day and then the whole movement disappears. Austria has a different tradition. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: That's why there are 17 million?]] Colleague Glawischnig, a positive tradition has Austria, parties make a huge amount in Austria. We're not talking much about it! Starting from youth work, too, Mrs Glavischnig, as far as women are concerned. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: For 17 million I can make a lot of education policy!]] Women bring a lot into the political parties – up to the seniors. There, parties in Austria take on a wide range of tasks. On the other hand, we always complain of the lack of closeness of citizens. We are thinking about how we can strengthen the involvement of citizens in decision-making processes, for example through popular desire and other opportunities. Yes, do not parties also have a very, very essential task of providing for this closeness of citizens, to ensure that voters are cared for in the constituencies? [[Abg. Grosz: No one feels cared for by you! Your constituency is not a petting zoo!]] If this is our opinion, ladies and gentlemen, if we want this direct contact with the electorate, we need appropriate infrastructure for the parties. However, corresponding infrastructure for parties, of course, also causes costs. [[Abg. Grosz: Your constituency is not a petting zoo!]] And if parties are to be more than just the apparatus that does the day-to-day business, it also needs resources for political academies, think workshops and, of course, for the necessary information work. Mr Grosz, I do not want this to be a Kasperl Theatre. I would like to discuss seriously how we get the best possible rules here. And what the Federal Government has presented here, ladies and gentlemen, meets the demands made by the Council of Europe to us. The Council of Europe, with its regular reports, is the guide here for me. I assume that if we adopt this strict party law – and we will decide – we will reach a point here where we can say good conscience that we have one of the strictest rules in Europe. But these strict rules must not lead to someone donating for a party being pushed towards the edge of the criminal. This must not happen, ladies and gentlemen, because parties are the backbone of a functioning democracy! And the dual system that we have, on the one hand, the public promotion of parties, but also the possibility of being able to donate under clear conditions, I think is the right system. And we have now provided for transparency obligations which have not yet been met. That is, with every donation euro that is given, it is then possible to track where it comes from, and it is very important that we achieve this state of play – even with regard to accountability. Of course, this is a further burden for those who work in parties. The last and crucial point is now clear limits on the overall promotion of parties. And, my colleague, Glavischnig, because you always want to appear here and give the impression that you are so much for all this and even more stringent regulations: This process will only be concluded if we succeed in ensuring that the federal states also make these regulations by law. They are in Vienna in the city government. You know: In the final report by GRECO, no one has been as criticized as the Federal Capital – no one has been as criticized as the Federal Capital! – with regard to the level of party support, but also to transparency. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek]] [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign]] [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Well, you are in the government and you have...!]] You are then credible if you enforce what we decide here in the Federation, also in Vienna.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e7236	For clarification only: I have requested the Stenographical Protocol of the speech of Mr Dr. Kräub. I'll read again what he said, and then decide. Mr Vilimsky came to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e7261	Madam President. I would ask you to really do more if your comrade, Federal Managing Director, here for more than 5 minutes on the subject of transparency package, brings nothing more than an unqualified hatred speech about the Third President, while saying words like shamelessness and inconsistency – and concepts that lead to admonitions or calls for orders in any other parliamentarians, are suddenly not heard here at once, and you only want to read the Stenographical Protocol after protest. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] I would like to say a few things about social democracy and, above all, that of Mr. Comrade and CEO Herbs, although I wanted to put my speech differently: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Binder-Maier]] You know, there's so much butter on your head that you'd go through as Salzburger Nockerl soon. [[Abg. Binder-Maier: Who sits in the glass house,...!]] Today, where we talk about transparency, we have to find out a daily newspaper that your comrade from Argentina, besides his VW-Manager relationship, requests a political board of €11,970. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr Jarolim]] [[Unrest in the hall.]] I can only ask with Comrade Tucholsky: Aren't you ashamed of yourself, Mr. Federal Managing Director? [[Complaints with FPÖ and BZÖ.]] When we, ladies and gentlemen, talk about social democracy, talk about transparency, then things like fat political pensions are also to be made transparent, not only in your comrade climate, but in my opinion, it should also be with Comrade Faymann in such a way that he receives a five-digit political board – about €10,000 – according to the old system. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ing. Westenthal]] [[Abg. Oillinger: How much does the Kabas deserve? Kabas?- Oh, my God!]] – I would expect clarification from you here. Pensions are an essential asset, which must also be announced to the public as a result of fair transparency. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Krainer.]] But you're not transparent. Just as little, Mr. Herbs, you are transparent when your comrade Schieder tries to apply for a luxury BMW, a 740d with all the horrors inside. [[Abg. May. Muttonen: How exactly has the foundation been, with the old lady?]] There is no need for social democracy to actively go to the public and say: Yes, our Comrade Secretary of State deserves to drive a 740 BMW with all the schikanes in it. – Please stop talking about distribution justice somewhere in the future, talking about social justice somewhere! You act as if you were fighting for the pensioners of €800, and your boss will take off €10,000, €11 000 and €12 000 pension. This is indecent, Mr. Comrade and Federal Managing Director Herbs! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Just as a list of shame has been published in Greece, it will now be necessary to publish a list of the red shame. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Parent]] Mr. Ollinger, be quiet! If we talk about assets, we talk about transparency: Which Member of this House is in a community apartment? Who is it? The Lord “I miss today-shoe-again” fungus, he is! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] While 10,000 Viennans are in a queue and are waiting for a community apartment – families that urgently need a community apartment – your Mr. Pilz is sitting in a community apartment! [[Unrest in the hall.]] And come out and tell me how much rent Mr. Pilz pays! [[Abg. Street: 165 € pays it!]] According to the information of the tenants, the rent paid by Mr Pilz is below 100 €, while others, socially in need and families are waiting for a municipal apartment. Shame about you, I'm just saying, and stop talking about transparency here if you don't live it yourself! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And when we talk about transparency – listen now! So when we talk about transparency, we need to talk about all those included in this game of public debate. [[Abg. Oil: Kabas?! Kabas?- Oh, my God!]] These are also media representatives who comment on the day-to-day, and assess whether too much or too little transparency, good or bad transparency is exercised here. What about the ORF moderators, for example, with a Mr Armin Wolf, who, according to the press's report, receives between €140 000 and € 150 000 a year in salary from public-law fees? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scheibner.]] And then we are in the big grey area when it comes to coaching, when it comes to training, when it comes to external modes of Mr. ORF moderators, where you pay between €5,000 and €10,000 for one and a half hours of an ORF moderator. – And these are the ones that call for transparency every day? I'm really looking for you there: Do not stop with us here, but make us an honest transparency package, which covers all areas and which also includes the field of printing media, which receive press promotion! Because it can't be that publishers of magazines get €26 000 a month – €26 000! – and every day with your finger point to politics and say: [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign]] You deserve too much! [[Abg. They get public promotions too!]] It can't be that way, even there must finally be transparency in it! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In this regard, I would ask you, as a representative of the list of reds, but also all the others, not to hold back a comprehensive regulation here. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e7468	Mr Brosz is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e7489	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Mr State Secretary! Minister for Education! So I think it can be realized in retrospect that it was not a particularly good idea to write the question of party funding into a law on public transparency, which concerns the question of which funds are fed into the political system. [[Abg. Vilimsky: community apartment Pilz!]] There is the official rail through a party promotion, which we have always supported. The Greens are in favour of a public Party Promotion System, so that exactly what happened at the BZÖ in 2006 is precisely what happened at the BZÖ, namely that they draw up opinions for the lotteries – nine pages of an opinion by €300 000 – and then financed a campaign in which Mr. Westenthal was a top candidate, so that this would not happen, which has become clear in the U Committee, namely the amounts in the order of nearly one million in the BZÖ election campaign, about funds that have been fed into the countries. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: such a fool!]] And then you can go here and negotiate financing with Mr Stronach. - It's all unclean. [[Abg. Petzner: That's a total nonsense that you're spreading there!]] It is about having clear party funding, and it is about making it transparent and public. - Point one. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Point two: We have worked to ensure that the issue of increasing party funding, which will now also come – possibly – is not in the Party Transparency Act, and that will not be in the law to which the Greens may agree. There will be a corridor setting the level so far, and if the government parties believe that they want to divide funds in the countries, and this can be said to be comprehensiblely saved, in the Federation, then the ÖVP and SPÖ will have to decide. The Greens will not vote in favour. It is definitely so that we have enforced that there will be no increase in this law with the two-thirds matter. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] But, Mr Kickl, you know, the party financing is in the federal law. There's a sum inside, and – I think the education standards in the fourth class are like that – there's x, that is, the number of x entitled to vote, times the sum, and then a number comes out. And you are obviously – and I am afraid of this – in every negotiation where we are, unable to multiply two numbers. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] 6.4 million electorates once the sum per electorate, then it comes out. [[Abg. Kickl: And that's why you should be able to spend more of that from the countries! That's supposed to be a zero-sum game!]] - Maybe you'll count on it, then you know what you're doing. And you have gone into the negotiations from the beginning and you have said that if something is saved in the countries, you can do so in the Federation. – That was your negotiating position;ours wasn't. [[New call for tender of the Federal Republic of Germany Kickl]] We have said that there is nothing to do with our votes in the Federation. The FPÖ would have approved an increase in what is saved in the countries. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] And why is this now also about transparency? Why are you so opposed to the constituency cost limitation? – Yes, we already know that: because you will move the funds you take in Vienna into the federal election campaign and plan electoral struggles whose costs are well over 7 million people who are settled there. [[Abg. Kickl: That's such a...! You don't know how an election campaign works!]] And when you look at that: Mr Lopatka, what did you say to the APA in 2006 about what the EIA election will cost? - You said it costs 7 million. In the account report, the sums were inside: The ÖVP spent € 17 million in the election campaign, 10 million in excess! – We don’t want these dishonesty and mogel packs that you sell anymore, so it also needs an electoral cost limitation that stands in there. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] And if we come to the law now, you have to say – Mr Kogler has presented it perfectly correctly – there have been many loopholes closed – I think we can say in this respect that at least one contribution has been made. For example, it is no longer possible to distribute donations over nine federal states and thus come to a larger sum. We have determined that this will be aggregated and the sizes will then apply. The most important point at the moment, however, is that there are still things that are open, namely sponsorship and advertisements, and everyone in the political business knows that, apart from donations, this is also very massive forms to feed money. Mr. Kopf, the ÖVP was a specialist for – what did you say? – dual party funding, I think. [[The speaker holds up copies of calls in a row.]] I'll bring this with you all the time. That was the bowl election. There were then such post-casts and election materials that have been distributed. [[Abg. Petzner: Lopatka!]] And the dual funding has then looked so that there are ads inside on each second side – in front: Schüssel-Wahlkampf Propaganda; back: financed by the Austrian Lotteries, financed by the First, financed by UNIQA, financed by Raiffeisen. – This is your dual financing. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Head.]] - So what? - Okay, when You do that, then there's a challenge: Make public how much you've gotten for it! Make it transparent how much the ÖVP has received from the banks you are close to from insurance companies you are close to for election campaigns! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We will fight for this, we will stand up for it, and without that there is no green seal of goodness. There will no longer be hidden party funding with green votes. It's not illegal that there's sponsoring in there, but you're fighting for it not to be transparent. [[Abg. Head: An advertisement is hardly secret!]] They fight for the fact that the things sponsored by Telekom will not be public in the future. You have not yet consented to the publication of advertisements. This is another very important point that is coming. [[Abg. Head: Now you've just shown it, the listing! More public is no longer possible!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] No one can understand what UNIQA, the First Bank or Raiffeisen paid to the ÖVP. No one knows! It doesn't seem public anywhere, and that must go into the law.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e7681	Mr Petzner has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e7702	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! In view of this debate, I should like to mention, in particular, Mrs Fekter, the Minister for Finance, who said: I'm the only real man in this government! – If I look at this today, I am almost afraid, ladies and gentlemen, that Mrs Fekter is only right once by making this statement. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] For one thing you have to say, ladies and gentlemen: What none of the citizens outside understands is that those parties, namely SPÖ and ÖVP, who have led us into this euro-debakel that we have to complain across Europe today, want to reward these two parties for getting even deeper in the tax pot and even more money in the promotion of parties for themselves. What no one understands, ladies and gentlemen, is that this federal government, which has nothing to do all day, is to argue about posts – whether Mr. Muhm remains the Board of Governors or not – that these major parties are even more rewarding for the post-chacheries, for the proport who celebrates happy originals, in terms of the promotion of parties to get even deeper into the pockets of taxpayers. This is because if you look at the current draft negotiations, ladies and gentlemen: There will be no reduction in the promotion of parties, as it is promised, nor will the status quo be cemented in terms of the promotion of the parties, but it will be under the heading if one calculates it precisely, an increase in the promotion of the parties in Austria. And for this increase, ladies and gentlemen, the BZÖ is certainly not to have. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] In addition to the fact that Austria, and many do not know that, according to Japan – including the number of eligible and gross domestic product – already has the second highest party funding worldwide, we also reach very, very many emails from citizens expressing their protest. Here I can read what citizens write to us: “The colported design is an insolence. ... So politicians and their appliances want to get out of the control pot even more than before? ... The opposite must happen: The promotion of the parties must be substantially reduced.’; This is what people demand, and I can answer these people here today that the BZÖ is the only force here in the House, which from the beginning has said in the negotiations and also in the public, that we do not just want to have a cementation of the status quo, that we do not want an increase, but that we want to have a reduction in this second highest party funding worldwide. [[Abg. May. Kogler: This is not a topic at all! What are you talking about?]] [[BZÖ's condolences.]] There we were the only ones! For where the Greens are right, it is that both Greens and FPÖ have agreed to the government's wish to remove the promotion of parties from this package of negotiations. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Gaßner]] [[Abg. Kickl: Where has this been tuned? Where?]] We have always said that we want this in conjunction, we want the promotion of the parties to be accompanied by the rules on transparency, because that is the only lever, namely the two-thirds majority of the opposition, the only means of pressure to achieve a reduction under the line.And you, Mr Kogler, together with the FPÖ, have put this pressure medium out of hand, and therefore bear the responsibility for achieving this increase in the promotion of parties in Austria. [[Abg. May. Kogler: This is a total nonsense! Look, you... and that's how it looks!]] [[BZÖ's condolences.]] That's what you have to tell people, so you have to be honest. You have put yourself in front of the government, and we will look very closely at what will actually be in this transparency package at the end of the day of the many green demands you have made. [[Abg. Kickl: I'm already excited to see if the BZÖ will apply for a promotion in autumn! I'm really curious!]] I can tell you now that there will be very, very little to nothing left of these green demands. We say that we want stricter transparency rules – and this must also be the consequence of the U Committee – but we are not prepared to have our ladies and gentlemen buy us more transparency and stricter rules through increased party funding, because nothing else is what is currently being negotiated. The BZÖ is not available! The BZÖ is the lawyer of taxpayers and will never, ladies and gentlemen, participate in an increase in the promotion of the party under the rule.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e7811	Mr Ing. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party to - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e7833	Madam President. High house! In my view, in the discussion, a little bit has gone down, the basic definition of whether a political party needs any donations at all. We have already heard today – Mr. Kopf has said that – that must be so. – But is that really the case? Does a party in Austria need a donation? [[Abg. Head: This is a human right!]] Now we know that in the U.S., the nobility is officially buying politics and presidents. That's what we know in America. There, the money is officially donated – in return – and there the money buys the policy. Now, in Austria, we would have the advantage of having a system where this is not the case where the citizen with his taxpayers financially equips the parties in such a way that the parties can fulfil their duties. And what are the tasks of the parties? – on the one hand, in the interests of the citizen, to make appropriate laws and on the other hand to inform the public of what information is available or to inform him of the policy options. These are the party's most own duties, and for that the party is equipped with money by the citizen. We have such a system in Austria, and I find it better than that in the USA. I would not want the money or industry to buy politicians and then influence laws accordingly. And what are we doing here in Austria? By allowing donations, we lay the seeds for corruption. Why? – If someone gives money to a political party, and it's not about hundreds of euros, then he always has an interest in a return. And that's why: If we want to get rid of the influence of these donors – and of them there were some in the past; these are also organisations that ÖVP already knows some, and also the SPÖ has some in the background that make money available again and again, where there is always the seeds of corruption inside, because of course they want a counter-performance – something has to change. That's why I'm saying: A political party does not need donations, not in Austria. In the USA it is different, in other countries as well, but in Austria, the political parties are unlikely to get much money from the taxpayer. Should that be too little for the work we are doing here, we can talk about it, but we should not open the back door and let in donations and, in some cases, also perform corresponding counter-services. That's why: If we remove the possibility of the donation, we will prove it with draconian punishments! Not even a € 1 should be donated in the future in Austria. That would be the right way, because then we can rule out anyone having an influence on politics. The only person who can influence politics in Austria is the one who pays, and that is the citizen. The citizen pays for the acting we deliver here. That is why we should only be obliged to the citizen, and that is why we do not need donations, because a donor always has an interest. Mr. Kopf says that the donation is a civil right, there are people who do it free of charge because they are the party – whatever. Mr. Head, excuse me, but if your party gives someone a few hundred euros, do you think he's doing so because he has a social conscience or else, or because he's afraid your party's going down? Do you think he's doing that? If you say that with a few hundred euros you can't buy a political decision – you said today, Mr. Kopf – then you imply that you can do this very well with a few thousand euros. You said here today, with a few hundred euros you can't buy a political decision – with a few thousand apparently already! That's why, Mr. Kopf, you're going astray from this! If we stop with the political donations, let's stop the party donations! We don't need them. The parties have enough money to fulfill their task. The only person to whom the parties should be obliged is the voters, and he pays enough anyway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e7893	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. [[10:22:14]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e7914	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e8194	According to § 93 para. The Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. to the Federal Minister for Finance on the ‘Euro crisis’. Under the Rules of Procedure, the urgent question will be discussed at 3 p.m. Let's go into the agenda. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e8229	A consensus was reached between the members of the presidential conference on the duration of the debates. Accordingly, a day block time of 6 ‘Vienna hours’ has been agreed, so that the following speaking times arise: SPÖ and ÖVP per 84 minutes, FPÖ 75, Green 66 and BZÖ 63 minutes. Furthermore, according to § 57 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure, to limit the speaking time of each Member of Parliament to 10 minutes per debate without a club membership. For the duration of the television transmission in ORF 2 after the current hour, the following statement was agreed: Declaration by the Federal Minister of Foreign Affairs for 12 minutes, then a round of speakers in the order of the Liberals, SPÖ, Greens, ÖVP, BZÖ with the speaking times 8, 7, 8 minutes, followed by a round of speakers in the order SPÖ,ÖVP, Free, Greens, BZÖ with the speaking times 5, 5, 7, 7 minutes and a round of speakers in the order SPÖ, ÖVP, Free, Greens, BZÖ with the speaking times 5, 6, 6 minutes, then a member of the government of the ÖVP with 6 minutes, the further speakers in the order SPÖ, ÖVP, SPÖ, ÖVP, Freiliche, Greens, BZÖ with a speaking time of 4 minutes each. That's a total of 143 minutes. The President-in-Office shall ensure compliance with the agreed speaking times and shall, at the latest before the beginning of the final round – after consultation with the club members – distribute the remaining speaking time to the five political groups at the same time for the last round. Actual corrections are only called after the end of the television transmission time in ORF 2. We shall now proceed to the vote on the speaking time just presented. Whoever gives his consent, I ask for a sign to be given the same. – This is unanimously accepted. [[10:25:02]] 1. Point Declaration by the Federal Minister for Labour, Social Affairs and Consumer Protection pursuant to Article 19(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Council on "Austrian Labour Market in the European Context – Investing in Growth and Employment"
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e8284	We'll get to the 1st. Agenda item. Following this declaration, a debate will be held within the meaning of Article 81 of the Rules of Procedure, in accordance with the request made by five Members. I now give the floor to Mr Hundstorfer to give the statement. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e8317	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. The comparison makes sure: Austria is far ahead in the creation of jobs! Three years after the largest international economic crisis since the 1930s and in the midst of the still uncertain times of the European financial crisis, Austria is one of the very few countries with employment records. The economic and financial crisis in the EU has lost 4.1 million jobs since 2008, and the number of jobs in Austria was already 65 000 above 2008 levels by the end of 2011. With nearly 3.5 million employees, as many people as never before have a job in Austria. The employment rate of Austria – this includes people from 15 to 64. Year-old – last year was 71.7 percent; an increase of 0.4. We are thus at the top of the EU-27, in fifth place. The current increase in employment is widely distributed. It takes place in all federal states in full-time and part-time, in women and men, in young people and older people, as well as in Austrian and non-Austrian citizens. In contrast, unemployment has taken on a particularly worrying role in the EU countries most affected by the financial crisis. In Spain, the situation is the most dramatic with 24.3 percent, and in Greece it is more than 21 percent and so on. But there was also a doubling of unemployment in the United States. On average, the European Union's unemployment rate is 10.3 percent, whereas Austria has a fall of 0.3 percentage points to 3.9% compared to the previous year's figure. We'll take the 14th. In a row, the first place in the EU 27 is a month. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Of course, these figures are not intended to rest, because every single unemployed person – there are 221,000 people at the hour – is, of course, one too much, not a question, but this development is nevertheless very pleasing. A similar picture can also be seen among young people in international comparison. In Spain and Greece, more than half of all young people aged 15 to 24 are unemployed, and on average, the EU 27 is 22 percent. [[A club worker tries to improve his sound quality by chiseling on the speaker microphone, which means that the micro disappears from the tripod and falls on the pult.]] - That's right. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grosz.]] – An insanity, old man, Mr. Grosz? Sensational! Austria's youth unemployment, on the other hand, is not even half the EU average at 8.9 percent. After Germany, we are in second place within the EU. Although the population of the above-mentioned young people rose slightly in May compared with the month before, the number of unemployed in the 15-19-year-olds fell by 2.3 percent. With a youth employment rate of 54.9% in Austria – also a plus compared to the previous year – we are third in the EU comparison to the Netherlands and Denmark. These figures show that we are very good at European comparisons with our labour market policy. I would like to repeat: Despite the relative success, it must not be forgotten that every unemployed person is one too much, no question. That is why we must not reject it, we cannot reject it, we must continue to do a great deal to pursue an active labour market policy! These successes have not flown to us. Compared with other countries, it has once again become clear that an enlarged social state, combined with an efficient economic policy, represents the best means against economic risks. A very essential basis for the continuing good employment situation was the economic package with income tax reform to support domestic demand, advanced construction measures, including the promotion of thermal rehabilitation. But above all, the activating labour market policies, including with the rapid expansion of short-time work, training, qualification measures, are and have been the right answer. All these activities have enabled us to secure over 100 000 jobs in recent years, or to redesign them. I would also like to address the issue of minimum security based on needs, because many of us believe that this is a hammock, because one rests, lives by the state and does nothing else. – The opposite is the case! Since the introduction of the minimum level of security, the labour market service has already been able to provide more than 25 000 jobs. In the case of persons providing minimum insurance in employment, another 54 000 have or are in training, and 33 774 persons with minimum insurance are currently required. It is and remains a springboard, it is not a hammock. If one compares the figures of two federal states in this context, I would also ask for a correct comparison of figures and not a superficial-political one. Save with measure and objective, budget consolidation while supporting the labour market. – While more and more votes in the international environment point to the fact that undifferentiated consolidation measures lead to the destruction of countless jobs, the Austrian Federal Government has developed a stability package, which, of course, aims at savings in the first place, but at the same time puts a great many impulses. In addition, € 750 million will be available for active labour market policies over the next four years. This money will be used directly for the “50 plus” generation. But it is simply a question of continuing to expand what we are doing in the youth sector, in no way leaving what we are doing in the youth. Among other things, with the training guarantee, the Federal Government has been able to offer training to everyone and to every youth. We want and will further develop this successful path. As part of the youth and apprenticeship coaching, a care offer is now being created for those young people who are particularly at risk of falling out of the education and employment system. In 2012, that is, in the previous five and a half months, 59 000 young people have already taken up employment after unemployment. 33 700 young people have used a course offer from the AMS. At present, 2 463 young people are accompanied by youth coaching. Over 1 400 production schools have visited or visited them, and the over-company teaching workshops as another network of so-called training guarantees are currently used by 9 728 young people. In view of the demographic situation with a steadily decreasing number of young people entering the labour market, the Austrian economy will urgently need every and every well-trained person in the coming years. Not least because of this, it is also in the sense of older workers to make it possible to stay as long as possible in working life. As a result of the gradual increase in the retirement age and the ageing of the strong-born years of the post-war generation, the number of over 50-year-old workers is already increasing significantly. At present, ladies and gentlemen, are around 40 000 over 50 years of age more in employment than 12 months ago! That is, I think, also an achievement you should appreciate. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Nevertheless, it is difficult for many people for health reasons to exercise their profession until the statutory retirement age is reached. In the past, as a way out often only remained the way to the often little random disability pension. This requires a comprehensive approach with a broad support measure, early consultation on vocational alternatives, measures to preserve health for both workers and people who are unemployed. All of this is provided or available through the “fit2work” program. However, if the learned profession is no longer able to be practised, there will be an extensive offer for medical and professional rehabilitation from 2014 onwards. The aim is that really only those workers go into I-pension where there are absolutely no more rehab opportunities. For the vast majority, the principle will apply: Rehab before I-Pension. In addition, the supply of new vocational orientation will be significantly expanded for uneducated health workers. The additional resources provided under the Stability Pact will provide the appropriate basis for this. Despite due caution, optimism is needed for the near future. While the economic researchers are adopting a very moderate growth for the current year, a stronger growth is forecast for 2013. Given the still very good employment development, this should also create numerous new jobs in Austria in the next few years. We must not be satisfied with what we have already done – in the interests of the approximately 221,000 unemployed, we will continue to pursue a very active labour market policy. In European comparison, we are currently an export product with our programmes. Not only our export economy, but also the so-called soft facts are very much in demand. What is behind the programmes is currently trying to copy across Europe. The latest youth employment initiatives of the European Commission, for example, have all been tested in Austria, have been tried out in Austria and are now being extended to the European countries. - Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e8432	We are now going into the debate. As First of all, Mr Kickl. I'll set the clock to 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e8456	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! A nice morning also to the first government representative of the Austrian People's Party today! I assume that up to half a decade now, the Ethics 1 seminars are always running and Minister Mitterlehner is here immediately after the seminar. I am pleased that he is here to participate in this debate. The Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, ladies and gentlemen, almost regrets me today that he has to stand here and, contrary to his otherwise very loose nature, read something out of the paper; probably already, as it were, to push through a language regime in dealing with unpleasant phenomena. [[Abg. Riepl: A praise would be yours for good employment policy!]] He almost apologizes to me for having to bite the acid apple in place for the entire federal government, but let us be quite honest and look for motivation, as it did in truth! In fact, this government does not make sense, nothing that is able to fill two parliamentary days with some sort of demandingness. That's the problem you're facing. In order to solve this problem and to stretch the very, very thin soup again, you have to click on some instrument, and this instrument is then a declaration by a Federal Minister. It is now a very interesting and important issue, but I would like to say, if already a statement by the Federal Minister, at least we would have thought that in days like this, where the international monetary experts are telling us that the days of the euro are numbered, where life expectancy is getting shorter, where the continent is threatening to go down the stream, where the currency is going to break up, perhaps a corresponding statement by the Federal Government on this important subject, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It is only about the existence of our currency, therefore it is probably not so necessary that Parliament is dealt with. . We are helping by asking for urgent consideration of a question today and by questioning Mrs Finanzminister on this subject. But it is embarrassing that the Federal Government does not, by itself, come to the idea of turning to an admittedly insecure and rightly insured population via television screens. The second problem is that the issue with which the Federal Government is actually concerned – I refer to the last Council of Ministers – is not really remote. This has to do with employment and growth, but it cannot be said on television that this is red and black pride and mail chess. This is also about employment, and growth is also a topic, but only the growth of the spheres of influence either in the red or in the black direction. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] So that's not really remote, so it's also excruciating. And then Mr. Hundstorfer will have to come. But there would have been a third variant, ladies and gentlemen, which unfortunately also fails, although from my point of view it would have been almost the most exciting: a statement by our Federal Chancellor. You know, this is the man with the seven-year-old memory gap. I only agree with this one point in the direction of SPÖ, which, many years ago, has lit up the whole of Europe because of the memory gap of a certain Mr Waldheim and here does nothing to clarify the memory gap of Mr. Party President. The man with the memory gap could have given us a report here on how this command issue of the Bilderbergers – that is the Hautevolee of the Freemasons – has been. How was that command issue? And if it had not been a command issue, he could have explained to us how, in the circle of high finance, he was trying to advance the interests of workers, as he has de facto attempted to become active in this shark basin in order to advance the legitimate interests of the working population in the course of this economic crisis. That is why he cannot do that, ladies and gentlemen, because the Federal Chancellor was not there as Chancellor, but he was the only private man who had been invited there. [[Cheerfulness at the FPÖ.]] Otherwise, there are only expolitans, active politicians, economics captains. He's getting rid of it. In the seven years he will not have acquired this qualification, otherwise he would be offensively dealing with it, so that is excruciating. So he was the only private man at the Bilderberger meeting. That is why this statement is also exonerating. What remains, ladies and gentlemen, is the statement by the Minister for Social Affairs. And if you listen carefully and read the headline carefully, at least an interesting fact is that the issue of “growth” is now at the heart of social-democratic politics. This is the new favorite term of the SPÖ: Growth. So the foreign exchange “Berlin and Merkel pui” and “Paris and Hollande hui” now applies. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: especially FPÖ peacock!]] This is a certain paradigm change in the politics of social democracy, which must be said. So far, the only French component in the SPÖ policy was the Citroën Limousine in front of the gate 4 of Clubobmann Cap. So far, that was the only French component. But now everything looks for France, and growth is the big topic. I am grateful to you for ending your own nonsense, which you saw in here a few weeks and months ago, because there is no way to go about it, absolutely and without bringing a debt brake into the Constitution, and that the savings rate is the nonplusultra and that only through this iron savings course can Greece, Italy and anyone, as all the candidates are called, be rehabilitated. I'm glad you've already failed. So we have a paradigm change. Now it is about the word “growth, ” and that is really new. I looked at the old speeches of the Chancellor of the Federal Republic. In the last statement he made on the Stability Pact, the word “growth” appears exactly once. All right, let's take note, even he's not free to be smarter, ladies and gentlemen. And as far as the labour market is concerned, we also have to do with a certain growth. That is why I would like to express my regret to the Federal Minister for Labour and Social Affairs and Luxury Policy, in particular, that he has to start today, because there would have been better times to hold a section on Austrian unemployment statistics. Unemployment is also growing; it is also a form of growth: more unemployed. A strange interpretation, but please, so it is. Ladies and gentlemen! This growth in unemployment is not a small side effect, but it has quite dimensions that are worrying: plus 4.4 per cent in total unemployment, plus 7.4 per cent in training. We again stand at over 300,000 people in Austria who do not have work. [[Federal Minister Hundstorfer: No, that's wrong!]] And while you're going here and taking a stand for it, other countries like Germany have developed such a way that they have had the lowest unemployment rate for 20 years. We can't wait for that, Minister of State! [[Federal Minister Hundstorfer: Oh yes!]] And so much skepticism is appropriate in your success balance. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Let us look at the European context! Not in the big and abstract. Let us look at the European context as it has been given to us at the eastern border! Interesting: The rise in unemployment in Austria is above average in Lower Austria, Burgenland and Styria. Aha! We now have the European context. And if I translate the European context into the everyday language, then the east extension and east opening of the domestic labour market is called. If everything is not a problem, it has nothing to do with it, evil FPÖ propaganda! [[Abg. Riepl: That's right!]] That's why I've been looking at what the comrades in Burgenland say about it. What do the comrades in Burgenland say on this subject? A whole series of quotations. I quote: Dramatic situation in the labour market. – Sender: SPÖ Burgenland. I quote: Alarming developments in the labour market. – SPÖ Burgenland. The comrades say: Exchange of domestics by foreign, mostly Hungarian workers. – Senders of this statement: SPÖ Burgenland. Other quote: The tokens pay the older workers. – Senders of this statement: SPÖ Burgenland. And now comes the call, ladies and gentlemen – and keep it, Minister! – the demand of your comrades in Burgenland: We need a protective shield for the domestic labour market, says the SPÖ Burgenland. Yes, hello, ladies and gentlemen! Either these are all bad propagandists and will be presented tomorrow to the party exclusion – or they will jump on the FPÖ line because they will see that everything else is not sustainable, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] I'll be right there. – If you want a European context in the labour market, you need a context of hard currency countries. These are Germany, Austria and a few others, and that is why they are better standing because they are already good in front of the euro. Look at that to save what is still to be saved, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e8586	Mrs Csörgits is now speaking. Seven minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e8607	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that Mr Kickl has not been able to follow or listen attentively to the statements made by the Federal Minister, because it was clear and clear that the measures put forward by this Federal Government were very good measures and we are in the happy situation, Mr Kickl, very much appreciated that in Austria we have a rate of unemployment which represents the lowest rate of unemployment within the European Union. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the FPÖ]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] And this, ladies and gentlemen, does not come from anywhere, but has to be done for it. And this federal government has done something for this, even if you do not want to remember it or do not want to take note of it. [[Abg. Kickl: But all this is now putting you at risk with your policy!]] And we will continue to fight for all those people who are currently in unemployment to be able to return to the work process. [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: Get a training!]] This begins with targeted measures by the AMS, which starts with funds made available in connection with the Stability Pact to help these people get back into employment. And that's not nothing, ladies and gentlemen, either! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In the context of combating unemployment, many wheels must be turned, including wheels related to economic impact in the European Union. And there you're always among those who bet that you're moving millions there, millions of people down there. But believe me, Mr Kickl, if measures are not put in place, for example, that Spain is getting help for the banks, then that means that the situation arises there – I understood it very well! – that the blood supply of the economy in Spain is frozen. [[Abg. Kickl: You still haven't understood it!]] [[Abg. Kickl: Make the healthy even more, that's what you want!]] This means that people are getting out of work there. This means that Austria, which lives on exports, is also in trouble. And when we speak of Spain, not of any small country, but of 10 percent of Europe's total economic performance, Spain has such a meaning. So just as simple as you and your party do, you can't do that. It is important, necessary and correct to provide assistance here, important and correct in connection with the situation of the people there in the country, but, of course, in the long term also in connection with the situation of the Austrians. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Kickl: I see you standing out there and rowing back!]] [[Abg. Kickl: Wait a few months! A single retreat fight!]] We would no longer need to think about it if we said that we were not interested in how things continue in the countries. If we and the government were to think that way, this would mean that there is an even greater increase in unemployment, that the social state and social services will be much more at risk and that, of course, this will also have an impact on our Austria in the long term. And I don't think that's what we all want. Let me mention a few figures that need to be called into mind so that you can see how important it is to deal with the issue of combating unemployment. Since the outbreak of the economic and financial crisis in 2008, the number of unemployed people in Europe has increased from 16 million to 25 million. If you compare this with countries in this order, then at the beginning of the crisis this was about the population level of the Netherlands. The rise is about the population of Austria. So I think that there are all the powers called on to become active here and to take action to combat unemployment, because unemployment means poverty, inability to see. Here Austria can bring very good examples and approaches to the European Union. I am particularly pleased that, thanks to the changed political framework conditions, in connection with the Danish Presidency, but also with the newly elected President in France, those countries are now getting more excitement, including Austria, who always felt that saving alone is not useful to get out of the crisis, but that there must be a good mix between growth and employment. And here, Austria can and will also be a model: a good mix of savings and investment. In this context, I would like to remind you once again of the importance of the Stability Pact which we have decided this year. This has caused much more people – the Federal Minister has already said – to be in employment, especially those who are older, and we have also succeeded in bringing much more young people into employment. The situation of young people and the need for a focus on “the fight against youth unemployment” have repeatedly brought both our Federal Chancellor and our Federal Minister into the European Union as a subject, and it turns out that this has also borne fruit. On the one hand, the Council has been concerned with this, on the other hand, there has been a focus debate on the EU's social ministers, who have focused on this subject. Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, all this costs money, but this money is well invested, because it means giving people the future and perspective. And it is necessary, right and important that a great emphasis should also be placed within the European Union on combating unemployment. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e8736	Mrs Mag. Honey's coming to terms now. 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e8758	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Minister! The enthusiasm for the Austrian labour market, for your labour market policy, is not very intense today. You have to say that. I am sorry if you once have the opportunity to make such a comprehensive statement, and all of us are planning an intensive debate to ensure that you do not take the opportunity to address critical points as well. Because we're dealing with the critical points and we're going to do something about them. Why don't you say anything about it, even toward coalition partners, that in the field of rental, temporary worker law nothing goes on, or about the increasing collective treaty negotiations in tourism, where employers are defending themselves against minimum wages of €1 400, do they want to shorten rest times et cetera? Why don't you use this, that we can also address critical points here today in a more detailed framework? - I'm sorry. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I'd like to do that. I want us to look behind the figures and statistics that are certainly not bad in the European comparison. I would like us to look at the real mountain of problems on the Austrian labour market, which unfortunately has been excluded from you today. Ladies and gentlemen! What problems am I talking about? I just want to mention a few, because the time is not enough. The paid working time is very, very unevenly distributed in Austria. Yes, employment is growing, but at the same time the number of part-time jobs is growing enormously, the number of people who actually want to work more than they have at the end of the job paid. On the other hand, we have above-average real weekly working hours, even in European comparison. That is, on the one hand, people get too little paid work, on the other hand they work too much, more than they love. That's a problem. Second point: The jobs in Austria are losing massively in stability. On the one hand, the stay at a workplace is now only 1 year and 10 months. The average length of stay is less than 2 years. Imagine that! And in addition, this boom comes from atyping. It is true that 30 percent of all employed workers now work in these destabilised atypical employment relationships, which have a lower social and labour protection than conventional employment conditions. That too is a massive problem. And finally, a third point: This is income and income distribution in our country. The trend in income in the last decade was really more than modest and also worrying, especially as regards the low-paid sector. In Austria, we have a low-paid problem. We all know that. In the meantime, the European Union itself is pointing out that we have a problem here. And this is not only because of the high part-time rate, but because in Austria, it is not guaranteed that the income of a full-time job can really live. That's not guaranteed. And that's a problem! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen, these are not small construction sites, but these are serious tasks that lie ahead of us, and this has to be done, Minister. I am convinced – we Greens are convinced, and I hope all of us – that this would also be in control of the possibility of a turnaround in the crisis, with the crisis, no matter what. It's about wanting it. And I ask you, Minister, ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ, FPÖ, BZÖ, ÖVP: Is that what you want? Do you want workers in our country to be better off? Do you want hairdressers to get better with their embarrassing minimum wages? The rental workers, the postal clients? The workers in tourism with difficult working hours, but also young lawyers and lawyers who have to work around the clock during their training as a lawyer? Or doctors who are completely exhausted at the end of their shifts often endanger themselves and others? Or young employees of free media? Do you want these people in our country to be better? We Greens want this and want to fight for it. And I am quite sure that this is in principle also your motivation that you want people to be well in our country. I think it's high time we all deal with this together. It is only because of the question of the ways in which we choose. Each of us understands something different among them: What is a good life, and what is the right way to go? I think we should stop arguing only about what right ways we have, but we should look: What do people want? And we know that, we all have conversations. And if we don't, we can take a look at surveys and studies, because they're all there. And what do we find? We know: People want fixed income, regular income. They want safe jobs, unlimited working conditions. And they want a job that will make them fun, which will give them a good life. That's what people want. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the scale on which we are to measure the Austrian labour market. [[President Neugebauer shall take over the chairmanship.]] Mr Minister, we need fair, existential wages. That's what people in our country want. The problem with low wages is not just one that emotionalizes the directly concerned, but every person you ask wants full-time work in Austria to make an existential income. But we also need working hours that make a good life possible. The times when rigid working time models have adapted to life models are over. We need more flexibility here, but flexibility that cannot go at the expense of security! Ladies and gentlemen! But we also need perspectives and stability – and recognition for our employees. To demand social security is not a social romance. To do that, to implement it, to guarantee social security, that is what people expect of us. Fixed jobs, stable working conditions, fair conditions, so our labour market should look. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we need investment, but above all, we need a job market that offers jobs that allow as many people as possible a good life. That must be the goal of our work and that is also the mission, with whom people have chosen us here. And I hope you all share this concern, you see it that way, and together we address these many problems that the Austrian labour market has – despite the good statistics you have presented – we address these problems, because they exist, there are mountains of problems.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e8870	Next speaker: Mr. Klubobmann's head. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e8891	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Yes, Mrs. Honey, we want people in Austria to be fine, of course. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] And the best basis for making it good for people is employment. [[New condolences with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Austria is a European champion of employment. So important is the European football championship, but that is certainly important, much more important – I even say this as a fanatical football player. We're Europe's champions of employment! We do not need to discuss away that there are structural problems on the labour market, either there or there, because there is nothing that would not be worthy of improvement and improvement. But compared to all other European countries, we also have better control of these structural problems than most other countries. We have the lowest unemployment rate and the second lowest youth unemployment rate across Europe. And that, Mrs. Honey, is not, of course, the expression and the result of forced action. [[Abg. Bookbooker: This is the expression of bureaucracy!]] This is the result of economic power. This is the result of framework conditions that the economy finds with us, not least created by us in politics. That is the expression of our overall situation. And when I say framework conditions – the Minister for Social Affairs has chosen, among other things, the title “Investing in growth and employment” in the second part –: The best investment in growth and employment are the best framework conditions, is the competitiveness of the Austrian economy compared to the other economies. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] These competitive conditions include low indebtedness, high research rates, low bureaucracy and, in general, a culture of facilitation in the country and not of prevention. But it also includes social peace and social compensation. This also contributes to stability and competitiveness, as well as high democratic standards in a country. This can be read in comparison with the countries: Countries with high democratic standards are also more successful economically and thus more successful in employment than other countries. Austria is top in almost all of these parameters. [[Abg. Bucher: That's not true! The truth is!]] But, ladies and gentlemen, there are also exceptions. If I have previously said that low debt is one of these conditions, we unfortunately have to admit that our debts are too high. And we must therefore make every effort to further improve the economic environment. It is also not possible to discuss away that we have lost a few places compared to competitiveness with other countries in recent years. That's what it's all about. We don't need to talk about that. But, ladies and gentlemen, to all those who believe that with further debt one can buy economy and growth: A clear rejection! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Bucher: Look over!]] We don't want to buy economics with debt, with the money of our children, because that doesn't work. All examples show that where money has been thrown out of the window – in the belief that it is possible to spread sand to people’s eyes, to buy growth and jobs with it – but at the end there is more debt, but the other thing that they wanted to buy has not occurred. It is driving interest rates up, not only for the States but also for the economy in these countries. That means, in turn, that it takes the States, but also the businesses scope for future investment. This means that there is a cycle in place, which can only be harmful to the economy and thus to employment in a country. A second, the Social Minister rightly referred to it: active labour market policy as a complement to a structural growth policy. – Yes, we also confess to that. But the emphasis must be on activating. That is, we must strive – and we also succeed in a good part – to bring people who are without employment back into employment as quickly as possible. The length of stay in unemployment has fallen with us and is falling steadily. This is a good sign, also a good testimony to labour market policy. But we must not lose sight of the fact that employment policy should not be a permanent provision. A small critical note on minimum security, Minister of State: We now urgently need an evaluation of this supply unit, to which we have also come to know – we have decided on it. But only in view of the disequilibrium, if I look at how many people in Vienna get minimum security and in the same size or population of the Lower Austria, I think, there can be something wrong, that smells damn strongly after permanent supply without a claim for activation. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We must turn to this problem. We must tackle this problem. No general departure from this institution, no exaggerated criticism of employment policy as a whole. But in conclusion: The best employment policy is still a structural development of our competitive and framework conditions for the economy, because at the end of the day jobs are still creating the economy and not policy.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e8988	Next speaker: Mr. Klubobmann Bucher. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e9009	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I am glad that, in the end, the crucial point has been that the economy is securing jobs and not this federal government. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] But, Federal Minister Hundstorfer, a personal recommendation, because you have basically read down only the labour market data, a personal recommendation that I really want to give you and which I also hope to support some ÖVP sympathizers: Please thank the small businesses in our country, in Austria! You know what they're doing? – They work for you, who don’t send their employees to the stamp over the winter, but they keep them in employment, and this also with self-repudiation, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] They often throw their own income back because they simply cannot afford to send some staff to the office, to the AMS or stamps. And this, ladies and gentlemen, we should thank and count on the many thousands of small, medium-sized companies in Austria. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] These are not you who create these jobs, but they are the many thousands of small entrepreneurs in our country. And we don't hide and we don't wipe out the table that there are 300,000 jobs-seeking people in Austria, 300,000! And, Mr Federal Minister, they are not standing on the floorerl, on the winner's pod, they have nothing to say about this European Championship title, which was today's talk, but they are in the queue at the AMS. – And this, ladies and gentlemen, should actually be our mission: to think about how we give these 300,000 people courage and a perspective so that they can find employment in the future – and not suffocate in their own praise, as you have done here today in an unprecedented, insolent way. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Don't hide the fact that unemployment is rising and competitiveness is falling! Thank God this has also been mentioned that Austria has lost in terms of competitiveness as an economic location in terms of ranks. We still have Rank 11 in 2007 and now we dress Rank 21. We have lost seven places in two years alone, because of our stagnation of reform, the lack of the Federal Government, the high taxes in our country and the enormous bureaucracy. This is the failure of the Federal Government, ladies and gentlemen, and that is why so many people are looking for work. [[Abg. May. Honey: That's not true!]] Because high unemployment and lack of competitiveness are a deadly combination in this context in Europe – please note! – and not to make a positive perspective for the next months ahead. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] And there is no doubt that, at European level, there is a permanent construction site that is not being processed and where you see with an unprecedented ignorance that there is actually a completely false policy in Brussels which, of course, has its impact on every one of these 300,000 unemployed people in Austria. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Pui Devil!]] You can't say Austria is an island of the Blessed, we make our own policy for ourselves. – No, we need to see this together in the European Union. [[Abg. Clickovits: Make a suggestion! Why not?]] For example, how do you see what is printed in the newspapers today that your comrade climate receives over €11 000 pension? You're the competent pension minister! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Pui Teufel, Minister of Pension!]] What do you say to your comrades as a socialist? [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: trade unionist!]] How do you justify 11 700 €, starting from 1. July to Buenos Aires Are Aires transferred? How do you justify that? I should like to remind you, ladies and gentlemen, it was Mr Klima, who has incubated the soup into us, this euro mess in which Austria is now sitting. This was this gentleman, who now, as it were, still receives a reward in the form of €11 700 to pension a month to Buenos Aires. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] This is your socialist attitude. That is cruel, ladies and gentlemen. – There's nothing to hear from a lord of herbs. [[Abg. Grosz: Mr. Chief Government Council, Mr. Herbs, what is it?]] Yeah, that's where he's sleeping. You suddenly don't want to hear that. It is not pleasant for you to talk about these things. [[Federal Minister Dr. Mitterlehner: make a suggestion!]] Or to lower labour market data that are not of interest to people. People are interested in a problem-solving competence that we are looking for here on this government bank, but unfortunately we do not find God. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, read the paper today! Even the head of the International Monetary Fund Lagarde says that in three months, the euro is history. – By the way with this euro, that is the reality! And you read down your labour market data as if we could not read Members. We also receive this from the Central Statistical Office. We now need a clear solution at European level, how we can finally end this euro shady and get out of this disaster! This is the challenge that we are facing, ladies and gentlemen, but not to sort out an agenda at a two-day plenary session and to urge the Minister of Social Affairs to read down labour market data. [[OBJECTIVES]] That, my dear. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not understand the problem. [[Intervocation: What's your suggestion?]] My proposal is an immediate stop to payment with regard to EU funds and assistance. That's my proposal. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] If you can't stop payment, you'll negotiate security with the next Greek government! You don't want to hear that. This was a failure of your “only man in the Federal Government” to negotiate a failure of the “only man in the Federal Government” to negotiate collateral with regard to the euro payments. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Mrs Mitterlehner and Mrs. Hundstorfer!]] Anyone who goes to the bank and wants to have a euro in the form of a loan must offer collateral. But you're slugging out the hard-earned tax money of the citizens from the window! And that's the real scandal that's going on and that's what people stand up to now, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Think about what the citizens are really tormenting and what they are really pushing. And then you'll see that these are the politicians sitting behind me.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e9215	Next speaker: Mr Katzian. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e9246	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Sometimes it happened to me as if I were in the wrong movie. [[Abg. Grosz: You're half your life in the wrong movie!]] Calm down! Please speak, Mr Grosz. You can do anything there. [[Abg. Grosz: You're half your life in the wrong movie! You're a so-called blackseer!]] – That is what you are saying, Mr Grosz? That's where I laugh. [[Call at the BZÖ:We are also in the wrong film at the climate-pension! Every month 11 700 € in the envelope! Abstractor, condescending socialist!]] Ladies and gentlemen, the first point on today's agenda is employment and the fight against unemployment. Everyone knows that for the great majority of people in our country, for workers, the question of employment, the issue of combating unemployment is a very important issue. And then some speakers come out and say that it's a Mickey-Mouse-Dayordnung, which didn't come up with anything, and because they didn't think of anything, they're dealing with the issue of combating unemployment. Ladies and gentlemen in front of the television screens, take yourself a picture! [[Abg. Grosz: Yes, make yourself a picture!]] I can only say that we are concerned with securing employment, combating unemployment and doing the best possible for workers. [[Abg. Grosz: Your own and the pension of Mr. Klima!]] That is why the issue is on the agenda. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: The only thing that is safe is the climate-pension!]] While individual speakers take advantage of the opportunity – because they do not think anything about employment and the fight against unemployment – to discuss other issues here, the Minister for Social Affairs and Labour has presented an impressive balance sheet today. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: A sentence on the climate!]] [[Abg. Grosz: Say something about climate protection!]] And part of this impressive balance sheet is the highest level of employment that Austria ever had. Part of this balance sheet is also that Austria has countered in the crisis that we have made an important contribution here with short-term business packages, with short-term work, also with short-term work measures, where qualification measures have been put in place for the workforce, and have made an important contribution to further development. It was also a sign of the Austrian social partnership that it was successful not to send people to the streets at this stage, but also through the framework conditions that we have created here in this House, to ensure that people did not stand on the road through short work and other measures, but remained in employment. The social state, as evidenced by several studies, has also contributed significantly to the fact that Austria has come through the crisis much better. It has an important distribution policy character, and it is therefore necessary to maintain and further develop the social state. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Every single unemployed person, ladies and gentlemen, is too much. And we don't need to say here that there's something going on or something is not being done about what's an issue. The Minister for Social Affairs has clearly said that every unemployed person is one too much, and that is why it will need to be done in the future. The topics have already been mentioned in part. Despite a consolidation package, it is a question of having funds available for active labour market policies. It is about adopting concrete measures, especially for young people, to implement the training strategy accordingly. We also need well-trained workers in the future. The aim is to promote and discuss the whole subject of working time accordingly. This is about overtime reduction and the question of how older workers will be employed in the future. And there is also a demand for the economy because it is about older workers having a job at all at first, which allows them to work longer in good health as well. And there will also be a need for us to create appropriate framework conditions for the future on the basis of the things we have fixed – age-part-time and corresponding flexibilization at the legal level and also in collective agreements. This is what we are working on, and this is a debate that must also be held – at the social partners level, at the political level – and I think it is cheap to simply say that this is a Kasperl Theater and we did not think anything better. We need these activities, and in Europe we need a path towards growth and employment. This is not something we have invented now, but that is something – you can also read – that has been said by us in all the explanations and statements we have made in recent weeks and months. So I expect the Heads of State and Government to do so on 28 and 29. In July, there was a corresponding employment offensive, in particular, to combat youth unemployment in Europe.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e9403	Next speaker: Mr Wöginger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e9425	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The data on the labour market already give a good witness to Austria – of course, primarily to entrepreneurs and workers, that is clear; they are of course also grateful in the course of this debate. [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. Csörgits.]] Overall, however, this is also a good testimony to Austrian politics. I would like to remind you of a few more numbers: With 3.9%, we have the lowest unemployment rate in Europe. Of course, we must devote ourselves to the 231,000 people who currently do not have a job, but I can say that the length of stay is three months. Because here was pretended to be all the people who have been standing without a job for years: We have a stay with the AMS of three months. 5 118 people are long-term unemployed, i.e. longer than one year unemployed. That is to say, in Austria as a whole, a good labour market policy is being made, trying to get people back into employment as quickly as possible. And that we have the lowest unemployment rate and the second lowest youth unemployment, confirms that this is the right way. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] A word about propaganda – unfortunately I must call it that – of the FPÖ: Where's Mr. Kickl? – Probably writing the next stitch speech. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein.]] I'd like to tell him one thing: The FPÖ put it last year as part of the east opening: We will be flooded; the labour market will explode; we will not end up with people from these Eastern European countries who will be pushing on the labour market in Austria. [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: This proves the numbers!]] Do you know what the truth is? – 27 000 people have come, we have a maximum number of employees of about 3.5 million, and the number of people employed has increased by 55 000 alone. [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: The truth is!]] [[New call of the abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein.]] Nothing has happened of these unknowing calls and of these unnecessary calls, with which you have only insecured the population in your populist way – thank God nothing – and it should stay where you always play topics in your propaganda box. It has not occurred, I would like to hold on to that. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Further call of the Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein.]] Unemployment, of course, means hopelessness, especially for younger people who have no perspective. The average in the EU-27 countries is 22 percent. We were recently with a delegation in Sweden. Sweden is often set as a model for the labour market. In Sweden, youth unemployment is 22 percent. So I am glad that it is 8.9 percent in Austria, and I believe that we are applying the better means in the area of youth employment. To keep people in employment longer, Mr President, Mr Hundstorfer has mentioned this. Of course, it is also positive to mention that about 40,000 people over 50 years old are now more in employment. Yes, this is the right path that we have to take here, including from politics. I can also recall the age part-time. We have reformed the age part-time. This is an instrument for entrepreneurs and employees, as it is more flexible to achieve a slow slipping out of working life, which is particularly important for employees in the enterprises, but also for entrepreneurs to benefit from this system at the end of the day. You're no longer being pushed into an early pension. That is why I can only appeal to increase the use of this means of part-time age. We need a good mix in this area, more flexibility, and last but not least, we need more age-oriented jobs so that we can keep people in employment longer. One more word to reform invalidity pensions: Of course, the expansion of rehabilitation, the health road and the promotion of occupational health is a topic. However, we must also devote ourselves to mental diseases, especially burn-out is a subject in this area, and we need uniform guidelines and criteria here in assessing and granting this type of pension. This will be an essential point for me in the negotiations on this reform package of invalidity pensions. It's about the disease, it's about people and not about the professional group – this has to be held – in the reform of the disability pension. If someone can no longer work, he should have this option of retirement, but we must also avoid exploiting this system. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] The same applies, of course, to minimum security. Mr Federal Minister, I have already discussed a lot with you in this area: We want to help those people who need this help, but we do not want the system to be exploited there or there. If I make the difference payments in Vienna – the 3.5 million working people have not deserved that the system is also exploited from tax pots. We are obliged to fill the tax pots; these are the entrepreneurs and the workers, and we are grateful to them.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e9520	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Hofer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e9542	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, it is also necessary to recognise that in Austria we are not as burdened as is the case in other European countries in the context of labour market problems. We owe it to measures such as short-time work, but we also owe it to performance. especially small and medium-sized enterprises in Austria. In small enterprises, it is not the case if you personally know that you immediately separate yourself from it if there is the first economic counterwind. This is why these companies are particularly important to us. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Nevertheless, ladies and gentlemen, the situation is not easy. Compared to the end of May of the previous year, 4.4% or almost 10,000 people are more unemployed, 231,000 people. The training participants are not taken into account, as training participants are not conducted as unemployed in Austria. However, there are 71,000 people in training, which is 7.4 percent more than a year ago. That is to say, there are 302,000 people in Austria, and that is the number we need to know. All of us have to be concerned, of course, because they are always fates, because many have responsibility for a family, many have to pay off their loans for a house, for an apartment, and have major problems when the job is suddenly lost. However, many older people are also affected – and this is particularly a pity. Previously, youth unemployment has been mentioned, and I should like to remind you that the last tax package has raised the additional labour costs for older workers and it has not been a wise measure to implement this because we have the problems, namely, in the unemployment of older people. It does not help, either, if we are now discussing an increase in the retirement age. There are experts who say we have to work longer. – Yes, of course, but if there are no jobs for these older people, then these people are pushed into old age unemployment and thus into poverty. That is, if one requires that one work longer, one must also provide the appropriate jobs for older workers – unfortunately there is not yet in Austria. Our foreign fellow citizens are also deeply affected by unemployment. This is a sign to me of an un optimal immigration policy. If we bring people into the country who are disproportionately affected by unemployment here, we have promised them something wrong, namely that they can build a existence in Austria that they will find a job – and that is exactly what is not feasible. Every other minimum pensioner in Austria is foreigners because he has problems on the labour market. Mr Wöginger, you mentioned earlier that the FPÖ has said that there will be problems due to the day commuters from the Eastern states. – There are already these problems, because specifically with the Styria with 10.3 percent unemployment, with Lower Austria with plus 9.3 percent and with the Burgenland with plus 8.9 percent, exactly those countries in which there are many daily commuters are affected. Being active as day commuters is, of course, interesting for someone from a neighbouring country because living in these neighbouring countries is cheaper because the cost of living is cheaper, there is a higher income in Austria at the same time, there is the right to child care, family allowance for children. In part, these transfers from Austria are higher than what you can earn in the country on average. You must not forget this: If you have two children as a Hungarian daily commuter, you will receive more family allowance and child care allowance than you earn on average in Hungary. That's why this activity is just so interesting for day commuters. Herbert Kickl has previously addressed the statements of the SPÖ, namely the SPÖ in Burgenland. I can still do this in detail. The SPÖ Burgenland has Notes that foreign workers have to be paid according to the collective agreement, but – so the clubman of the SPÖ suspects – that this is not the case everywhere. Foreigners, according to SPÖ Burgenland, would be registered for 20 hours, but would have to work 60 hours. It is clear that the black workers do not appear in the figures. These further aggravate the situation, says Illedits, who also found a responsible person for the mishaps in the labour market, namely Sengstbratl. – This is not a speciality in Burgenland, which is the head of the AMS in Burgenland. The SPÖ Burgenland claims: Mrs Sengstbratl is responsible for the problems on the labour market in this eastern federal state, which would also publish completely incorrect statistics. The SPÖ Burgenland also criticises how these statistics are compiled – they are the same in all federal states. Federal Minister! Yesterday, Ms. Sengstbratl was confirmed by the Board of Directors in her capacity as Managing Director. That probably means – because You also have a little influence on the order, your personality and your great competence and your radiance, which you undoubtedly have in many cases also within the AMS, so you will not be completely free of influence – which proves that Mrs Sengstbratl is apparently not guilty of the miscarriage on the labour market. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Gaßner]] So who's to blame for that? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Head.]] There may be some partial debt from the Ministry responsible. Since speakers were here at the speaker's desk who are active at the trade union, I would like to point out that trade union and workers' chamber are also confirming exactly what the FPÖ has said. Workers' Chamber President Schreiner says that the economy is increasing by cheap labour from abroad. At the ÖGB you can also see this: There is not only competition between Austrian and Hungarian employees, but also competition between Hungarian workers who have been employed for a long time in the country and those who are repressing on the market. Ladies and gentlemen, if you accuse us of being afraid, I'll just say: These are exactly the arguments that come from your own party.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e9639	Next speaker: Mr Oellinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e9660	Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Federal Minister! Mr Hundstorfer, I am very dissatisfied with the debate, even with your introduction, I admit. They've read it down from the leaf, but I'm wondering about some of the contributions I've heard in the meantime, whether it was perhaps not even better to read it just from the leaf. I'm also telling you why I'm dissatisfied. I am dissatisfied because the debate is actually called ‘Austrian labour market in the European context – investing in growth and employment’. What are we talking about? - Excuse me, perhaps it is just me, but we are holding this debate in the biggest crisis in the European Union. It may indeed be that the euro is flying around our skulls. But the real problem, ladies and gentlemen, which we should address more clearly here in the debate and where it is not enough to hit the shoulder, is that Europe is currently playing its future by sending young people and young people into unemployment. I don't understand that we are discussing completely saturately here – yes, we are still doing quite well with about 9 percent youth unemployment – given the fact that it is in the European Union – and there we are! – Countries with 50 percent youth unemployment. 50 percent! Do you know what that means? – Youth has no more perspective there – and we say: Well, we're still relatively fine with our 9 percent!Unknown term type: "%s".? This is our Europe, not any other continent – our Europe! – where the life prospects of young people are currently being played in. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein]] Beyond PISA, across Europe, we surely have the best-trained youth, and that is what we need to explain: No chance for you, you've had a bad time, you have to wait a few years! Do you know what that means? Do you know what it means if, so to speak, the knowledge acquired, the education these young people have, also their ideas, their dreams of a better future, of a better life of politics, of the economy in Europe? Do you know what that means? – We need to talk about it! We also need to talk about the fact that this Europe is currently running an austerity policy beyond this serious unemployment of young people, but also a serious rise in unemployment as a whole. How is this going to happen, ladies and gentlemen? How should this Europe become growth and employment if all public budgets are saved from the states and the countries to the municipalities? Save, and save only, that is, without meaning and thought!Unknown term type: "%s".? Of course, efficiency in public budgets is needed. We have been discussing this in Austria for years without perspective. We could already have easier structures in some areas of administration. - That's where it's going. But just “saving” to say, ladies and gentlemen, that is really the last thing in the face of these refused prospects for the young generation. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I'm telling you what's missing. It was nice that, in connection with youth unemployment, Mr Weninger brought the example of Sweden – although that is serious: more than 20, 23 percent of youth unemployment. [[Abg. Grill: Woeger! Not Wenninger! Wöger!]] Mr Weninger! – Wöginger, apologise; yes, I know, there is another one. [[Call the ÖVP:Woiger!]] Mr Wöginger, I think the Swedish Prime Minister was with your party a few months ago, and there he preached the Swedish pension model as a future for Europe, i.e. an increase in the retirement age. Did you notice that this might already be related? In Europe, we have a debate every week, which says that we should change pension systems, increase the retirement age to 67, 70 or even 75 years, that is good for us, that is good for the economy. – I do not believe that this is good for the economy, and above all I do not believe that this is good for people. Let us also talk about the link between youth unemployment and a time perspective, or the reduction of working time, where the trend in Europe has been going in a completely different direction for years and decades – you can say already! We have an increase in daily working hours – despite the reduction of working time in the various countries – in weekly working hours, in annual working hours, and in working hours. There we see – although the direct link is not so simple, I already know – that there is also a connection between youth unemployment and life-time work or retirement age. Nevertheless, the debate is being continued as if we were doing the best we could to save in this area. Look It is the debates which we have also held here in this House, or which are still being conducted publicly. Austerity policy in the social field, ladies and gentlemen, just as it is currently being carried out in some European countries and indeed in excess in the European countries, is the death of the European future, and it is what European youth can most often need.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e9733	Next speaker: Mr Scheibner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e9755	Mr. Federal Minister – at least that for business is still there! Ladies and gentlemen! - That's nice, thank you. [[Federal Minister Dr. Mitterlehner: The other one is coming!]] Mr Katzian is not here at the moment either, that is, the interest in the debate is a bit in the throes. Mr Katzian has held the opposition that we would criticize this a little bit as a placebo discussion. Well, if you yourself do not take this debate about the economic and labour market - including Europeans - seriously, then you yourself are to blame. But you don't need to keep this from us, because if you look at the agenda, then of course the suspicion arises that you said: Well, we don't have legal decisions. – Ladies and gentlemen, two legislative decisions in two days, the sad past and a arms change, which justify two parliamentary days? You can no longer agree on legislative decisions; obviously, you will injure up any personnel decision with important reform progress, and that is why we are here today and need to complete your duties. [[Abg. Bucher: Postenschacher!]] If you really – and it would be necessary – and we would like to discuss it very intensively – it is the opinion that Austria in Austria, but also in the European Union, must contribute to the promotion of this principle of investing in growth and progress and employment and is seen as a number one, then you would have to have a little different from your point of view. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] It's just too little to say: Yeah, we're fine. – Thank God, and we also acknowledge that in Austria, thank God – and also in Germany, in Holland, it is better for people than on average of the European Union – because we may also have a different perspective, because we have different framework conditions. But that cannot be enough for such a debate. And even if the agenda is “in the European context”, then you have to look at what is going wrong, but it is also wrong with the European perspective of Austria. What is our policy towards the European Union? Where are the initiatives, ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, to enforce this very principle, which is so important to us as well? As an export-oriented country, where jobs in Austria are also created by the fact that good companies in Austria have markets outside the country, within the European Union, but also outside of that, we have a fundamental interest in implementing this principle and that our foreign policy, ladies and gentlemen, too, our foreign policy initiatives are going exactly in this direction and that we are not turning ourselves off and saying: Yes, we are a bureaucratic unit, for us some consular and diplomatic stories are important, but the economy, we don't care about that. That would be the important and necessary things, and not every initiative! I mean, if you look at this: So easy 100 billion € – 100 billion €! – for Spain, but not for the country, not for the people, not for the purchasing power in that country, not for the businesses, not for the market, which is also important for Austria. [[Abg. Grosz: For the banks!]] – No, that’s what the Spanish have said themselves, these €100 billion in European – and therefore also in Austrian – taxpayers are used exclusively for saving the speculation banks in this country! 100 billion €! [[Abg. Grosz: Pfui!]] [[BZÖ's condolences.]] And this after the disaster in Greece, where everyone knows that no cent of this money will ever be repaid again, that no cent of these aberbillions, which are invested there, will invest in the construction of structures, that no cent of it will be put into the support of purchasing power or economic performance. That would be so important to us, too. This would also be so important for the countries to give perspective to people. Today, it has been complained that there are 50 percent youth unemployment in Spain, but not a cent of these 100 billion € that we are sending there is done to improve the labour market, but only for the bonuses of the bank managers. This is a scandal, ladies and gentlemen, and you have to stand up against it with all your strength. [[Aufgaben bei BZÖ und der Abg. May. Unspoiled.]] Where is that supposed to lead? Ladies and gentlemen, social democracy, European solidarity, yes, it is important, but not solidarity with the speculators, not with the bankers, not with the international financial sharks, but with the people, with the workers and also with the businesses, with the economic operators. This is good and right, but this solidarity is lacking because Europe is currently only governed by bureaucrats and diplomats and bank supporters and Austria is not doing anything about it, not voting against it, so that at last a turnaround is taking place. These are the things we want to discuss here. Then we are also ready to take joint action. That would also be necessary, because, ladies and gentlemen, only the economy, whether in Europe or especially in Austria, creates the jobs we need. In Austria, we have a small and medium-sized economy that cannot claim to be on the world market alone, and there is a need to strengthen the markets together. This would be such an important task of the European Union, an economic union, to help these companies to fight against protectionism and the incredible strategies of Asian countries, such as wage dumping, the social dumping that is breaking our markets with environmental dumping, and no one does anything about it. For years, the European Union has been dealing with itself and with the financial crisis. I do not need to say now that no Jota of regulations has been decided to put an end to these speculations. We have many tasks in Austria, including homework. It is good for us to thank God, but if we look at only the debt burdens of the countries that are not willing to finally abandon these superfluous structures so that we can also create opportunities to invest in the future, in education, in research and development, then it will be clear that we have many homeworks. But the most important thing is that in Austria and in Europe, a European policy is finally being made that is there for people and not for corporations, banks and speculators.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e9851	Next speaker: Mrs. Dr. Oberhauser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e9873	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I can already imagine, Mr Scheibner, that you do not like the fact that Minister Hundstorfer can report here on success in politics, especially in the field of youth unemployment. [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: What successes?- Oh, my God!]] [[Inter-calls at the BZÖ]] In times when black and blue orange was on the government, youth unemployment had doubled. [[Abg. Dolschek: Go, go, go!]] There was no talk about it, and nothing was done either. [[Abg. Grosz: You have limited perceptiveness, Mrs Colleague!]] [[Further calls to the BZÖ.]] This government is doing a lot for this. But, gentlemen, we have seen in recent times that the revenge of time is now the stenographic protocols. Just about half a year ago, Rudi Hundstorfer spoke here about European youth unemployment and presented the measures of the Austrian Federal Government, and I would not like to abstain from some of the quotations from the discussion at that time. It was Mr. Klubobmann Bucher, who said that the minister should not do so, “as if the whole world were looking at Austria”, and he is putting “politics past reality”. [[Abg. Ing. Hofer: Mrs Fekter already!]] And Christian Höbart said that Rudi Hundstorfer was a beautiful speaker and a “trickser”. When we consider that, as we have seen now, Parliamentary Count has also said that “Hinz and Kunz” can already be called “Anwalt”, we know that the revenge of journalists is the photo archive, as a “profile” advertising showed at the time, and the revenge of time is obviously the stenographic protocols of the Austrian Parliament. [[Abg. Grosz: Could you repeat that?- Oh, my God!]] [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: No one understood that! – They want to be hot!]] [[Abg. Grosz: leave the intellectual soup bowl! the intellectual nightscreen of the SPÖ!]] [[Further calls at FPÖ and BZÖ.]] It was Barroso here in March in Austria who praised Austrian policy, precisely as regards the fight against youth unemployment and the ways to combat unemployment, and said that Austria should be a benchmark and a guide for the other Member States. At numerous bilateral meetings this year, Rudolf Hundstorfer has the Austrian way of manoeuvring ourselves out of unemployment and, above all, how we bring young people into employment, many other ministers and Member States. The European Commission has not only praised this path, but also the path of social partnership, which, I believe, is unique and exemplary throughout the European Union in Austria. Both ministers are, I say, former social partners, and I think Minister Mitterlehner will be right in saying that the social partners' programmes are not tentative in the event of an item, but are really thoughtful and well-planned programmes. Mr Oellinger and Mr Kopf have today – and I assume that this will also be through the speeches of the other ÖVP delegates – the issue of minimum security, the “manufacturers” and, above all, the difference between Vienna and Lower Austria. I believe that we are all aware that the minimum guarantee with the connection to the labour market service is something that can bring people into employment and, above all, should not serve as hammocks. And the question of the differences between Vienna and Lower Austria is, I think, also quite clearly explained: Not only in medicine, but also in the labour market there is a big city factor. The markets, the labour markets in large cities are certainly different from those in the countryside. And we also know that in the anonymity of the big city it is much easier to admit that one has a right to minimum security, than in a small country, in a small town somewhere in Lower Austria, where one has to go to the district office, has to go to the social office and say: Hey, I don't deserve enough! In other words, I think that this is a mismanagement and mismanagement. And I think you know better, and would also ask that you continue to refer to it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] On the question of youth unemployment, Mr Oellinger mentioned the European dimension. We are second in Austria with 8.9 percent as regards youth unemployment. A lot of things have been done that bring young people into employment and, if they do not have employment, continue to train. Only if we look at yesterday's Council of Ministers decision on the issue of the generation-friendly resurgence of education qualifications, we know that this is not a labour market policy, but enables young people to get into employment relations – because young people who do not have a school degree are the unemployed of tomorrow. That is, what is happening here is happening on the one hand in labour market policy, but also clearly in education policy, namely that this federal government is trying to give the generation of Austrian young people a perspective. Let me end with a quote from the newspaper “Die Zeit” which, I believe, reflects very well how Austria is seen in other countries: “Austria has an idea – and 26 Heads of Government listen.” They not only listen, but also try to follow the Austrian path.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e10017	Next speaker: Mr Haubner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e10038	Mr President. Mr. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Oberhauser, at the beginning: The period from 2000 to 2006 under Wolfgang Schüssel was a time of a successful economic policy, where the reason for many international appearances was also laid, including for the export economy, where we were able to achieve unique successes of the Austrian economy. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] [[Abg. Oillinger: For grass! It was successful for Grasser!]] [[Abg. May. Gaßner: For a few, it was successful!]] And a successful economic policy is always the basis for a successful labour market policy, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It is certain that we must see everything in the European context, but if we always compare ourselves, it must also be acceptable that we make positive comparisons and not always draw on the negative ones. If you look at the subject from another side, we can already say that the Austrian economy is well standing. Economic growth has just been corrected up to 0.8 percent, and if this continues, we can also expect a further increase in economic growth in 2013. If you go through the businesses during the business visits, you can see that the mood among the companies is always optimistic and that you can easily see that the Austrian economy is well positioned. This is due in particular to the good cooperation between companies and workers, and both have to be thanked for bringing the economy in Austria to the success that we can experience every day. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This cooperation is also crucial in terms of jobs. If you look closely at it, you can see that the jobs create the entrepreneurs. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The jobs do not create any politician or government, but they are created without exception by the entrepreneurs. And if you look at the cooperation, the excellent cooperation between large and small, you can see that these 106 Austrian companies cooperate with more than 95 000 small and medium-sized enterprises and secure over 400 000 jobs. And the SMEs I have just referred to employ two thirds of the employees in Austria, are 100 000 young people, giving them a future and a secure job. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] And what makes me particularly happy as an entrepreneur is that every year there are entrepreneurs who start up. We have been able to welcome over 30 000 new entrepreneurs last year, and these have created 50,000 new jobs, and they are paying some €500 million in taxes and taxes to the State. Ladies and gentlemen! If we look at the international context, we can see that very likely many impulses are set by the government or the Ministry of Economic Affairs also for the export industry. Every second job – Mr Scheibner said it first – is secured in the export industry, and that is why we need to see it in the international context. So we can't feel like on an island of the Blessed, but Austria – and we already have to find that – is very good in the European comparison. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It is now up to us to set the course for the future. We must therefore not lose time in order to give local businesses the best conditions, because sustainable economic growth needs perfect framework conditions, impulses and incentives for investment and innovation, but above all, ladies and gentlemen, no new debt must be clear to us, because only without new debts can we grow and can grow beyond us and take it up in international competition with any country. We must strengthen competitiveness in order to continue to exist in this European context. When we look at Germany, it turns out that Germany is clearly more competitive than Austria. And if we look at this comparison with Germany, we should be encouraged, and we should strengthen our competitiveness. Without competitiveness no growth! Therefore, the foreign exchange must be for sustainable economic growth: More flexibility through debt reduction, increasing the performance of our businesses through best framework conditions, investment in research and development, discharge of local companies and further structural reforms. And: Austria – this goal we should set ourselves – must become the most attractive economic location in Europe. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In addition, ladies and gentlemen, we also need the best labour force. We need apprentices who can show and want what is in them, and workers who can stand on a vital labour market. The dual training in Austria is a guarantee that young people have a safe workplace. I am in favour of further strengthening this dual training. From across Europe, politicians come here to look at this model, a success model of the Austrian brand. - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e10133	Mrs. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e10154	Mr President. Federal Minister! Federal Minister Hundstorfer! Mr Hundstorfer, as an emergency nail, had to fill the agenda as the last offer of the government by bringing a report on the social situation here. He did a bit of a response, he read about the leaf – perhaps that was his exercise for it when he later became mayor of Vienna. Here it is traditionally so that the mayor reads only from the leaf. Perhaps this was just the pre-practice now, because also in Vienna's Landtag, in Vienna a notary is wanted. [[Abg. May. Gässner: Mayor don't read from the leaf!]] The Federal Minister has already been allowed to practice here today. But that – and now I am going to get a little bit to the content – what the Federal Minister has told us here today was in fact nothing specific. He has made himself here, has read the numbers that can be read on the homepage of his ministry, has tried to communicate to us, so to speak, that it is really great now, it is not at all as bad as it looks, but, quite the contrary, it is all much, much better. I say something to you, Mr Federal Minister - you know it very well -: Of course, reality looks completely different. In principle, they hide the training courses, the training participants, but they come here and tell us how wonderful this is: We don't know how many more people I have in employment. But, of course, many people are now more unemployed. That means, somewhere, these extra people must all come here! So everything grows: Employment is growing, unemployment is growing, the population is growing rapidly, and this is especially true of the over 50s. Mr. Federal Minister, where do these people come from? [[Federal Minister Hundstorfer: Because they stay longer!]] - Because they stay longer. I thought that was your main argument now. But at the same time, Mr Federal Minister, you are of course not saying that, of course, even through the opening of the East, people who are now in any employment situation, but mostly in atypical circumstances or in any dumping areas, have also come through the Austrian workers who are unable to work for this money. That's what you're trying to do. You deny this because you want to present it here as if everything were pointed. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It does not come about that almost 80 percent of the Austrian population are afraid of the workplace and fear of the future. This fear doesn't come from about. And if the work of this federal government was as pointed and as great as you represent it, then people wouldn't have to be afraid. Mr. Federal Minister, you should go in there before. Now I want to become a little more concrete and go into my native country of Vienna. In Vienna the situation is particularly interesting. In Vienna there are now, as of 31. ==References====External links==* Official website If you look at the numbers more closely, you see, we have a plus of far more than 10 percent of unemployment. And this figure is only beautiful, Mr. Federal Minister, because you suddenly brought a quarter more people into training in Vienna. [[Abg. Dr. Bartenstein: Nothing is beautiful!]] So in Vienna, by the end of May, a total of over 9 000 people were more unemployed than a year ago. However, they are sending almost 6,000 now in training, in addition to those already inside last year, and they say that in Vienna the situation is actually great, that unemployment is only slightly rising. This is a trick you're working with here. And then you make yourself up here and say, We're the best! We're European champions! [[Federal Minister Hundstorfer: Yes, we are!]] That is not the way it is, however, Mr Federal Minister, and you have been pre-empted to do so today. You say here that we have 230 000 unemployed, but forget to say that Austria has 70 000 people in training courses. 70,000 people in Austria are in training! That is to say, it is more than 300,000 people who are unemployed, and you have nothing specific to offer to them! You have not made any specific point. You don't have a single program, how you can help these people get out of this problem again. And what you don't understand: Mr Federal Minister, you can now say that we are so great in Europe, but if the whole continent collapses around us, then you can't pump so much money into the AMS that we keep this top spot. You can't even do that! In other words, you're actually bringing here a defensive program by reading something beautiful, reading something – unloving – but you haven't developed any future concepts for the people affected by it at all. It has already been said several times today: There's a family behind each individual unemployed person, there's a fate. These fates do not matter to you, Mr Federal Minister. And this, unfortunately, is a sad fact of God. You know this yourself, because I've never seen you like that, because you're unlovingly, almost responding here and reading something from the leaf. Mr Federal Minister, this is not an active social policy that you have made here today. That's nothing. It's falling asleep! And this is a blow to the face of the people concerned, whom you have not offered here today, not a perspective, not a clue, but to whom you have said: It's all right, but comfort yourself, I'll knock you on your shoulder, we're great anyway and we're going on as before! You do so in the light of the fact that the European currency may be breaking. But you didn't go into it with a syllable. How would this affect the Austrian labour market? Have you ever thought about that? – I would have expected you to do something concrete today, as you can imagine, if the big crash comes in the autumn, if the euro zone might crumble and break. Have you ever thought about it? If so, what did you not tell us today? Why didn't you tell the affected people outside? You would have had the opportunity here today, and the people outside are waiting, Minister of State. They would have expected you to say something about it, and you didn't do anything again. In total, they have not given any answers today. [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign.]] Mr Bundesminister, from a social minister who works actively, from a social minister who is there for the people, and also from a social minister of a party called the workers' party, I would have expected a little more.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e10245	Next speaker: Mrs Windbüchler-Sushill. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e10266	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Minister! The training and education system is in crisis. And if the education and training system is neglected, then labour market, employment and, of course, youth are neglected. Even though Austria is well established in the European context, in the European comparison, it is important and right to say that it is not allowed to rest on these figures. Youths – also in Austria or especially in Austria – need sustainability, need security of life, need security for the future, and not only need beautiful figures and words, but also a holistic system of education and training and work and business. And this not only in Austria, but throughout Europe. Tomorrow, my dear. Ladies and gentlemen, the educational people's desire will end here in this room. A great opportunity will be taken to really address reforms, reforms for the education system, for the young people in Austria, too. And the two ministers behind me are also responsible for the fact that no reform is taking place here, that there is an educational dead end, that there is no further step in the right direction. The teaching is a point that has been included in the popular desire for education and is discussed here again and again, but the teaching itself is not packed into a new system. The teaching is, for example, great. It's about crafts, it's about mediation, it's about teaching, it's about economic skills. The teaching is a great thing. But it must be in all our interest that this teaching, this system also offers real new prospects for young people and is being developed. There are a few small steps – Mr. Mitterlehner will make his speech shortly after me and probably address how teaching or teaching is occupied with measures that make teaching more attractive – but the big throw for improvement is completely missing. The situation of young people in education and training remains the same. There are such topics as the over-company teaching workshops as an intermediate station, a coaching programme is intended to support young people and businesses, an image campaign for tourism professionals should attract more young people to the tourist resorts, and At the same time, financial resources are to be provided for foreign internships. A long list, but only small steps, and that covers completely where it actually angles. The economy complains of a shortage of skilled workers, and in fact it is never discussed that companies and businesses train hardly any more apprentices. Only 20 percent of companies make up apprentices. It seems no longer attractive, it may be too strenuous to train apprentices. The companies want ready, flexible employees, but they need training. And there, politics can and must intervene, at Austrian level, but of course also at European level. The system of training, consisting of a long practical part and a short theoretical part, finally belongs modified, finally belongs attractive. General knowledge, foreign languages, political education, democratic education, European education, all this is missing. It is gratifying to hear that there should now be financial incentives for foreign internships, but the problem is: If language barriers are present and are not broken up early, how are young people to complete their teaching abroad to continue their education? The permeability of the professions does not exist: once carpenter, always carpenter; once hairdresser, always hairdresser. There is no such permeability, there is no such opening, that is missing. This is missing in both European and Austrian contexts. And this is an educational dead end that is fatal. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This political standstill is in all cases broken down here and now, and therefore, as a youth speaker, I very much welcome the Youth Minister's proposal to finally force there to be real vocational guidance and vocational training at the seventh and eighth school levels. It's about finding talents, promoting talents. Young people should be able to discover what they are suitable for, what they want to do, what professions there are, because it cannot be that the gender-specific career choice is continued. It can't be that 70 percent of all girls still land in 5 percent of teaching professions, and the boys look the same. There are many reports, the youth report, the male report, the women's report, the youth employment report, all these reports. The experts say quite clearly what to do. You have it black on white ahead of you, you just need to implement it more.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e10342	Next speaker: Mr Dolinschek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e10364	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Yeah, we've got record employment, and that's good. It is also true that the employment rate of the 14- to 64-year-olds has never been as high as now. We know the demographic development and we also know that the demographic pyramid is turning around at some point, and that is why we need to react in time. Federal Minister! It is true that despite the employment record, unemployment has also increased. Women have an increase of 2.4 percent compared to May last year, while youth unemployment is 1.4% higher than in the previous year. Mrs Oberhauser said that during the Black-Blue/Orange government youth unemployment was higher, but that was simply not true. It was lower than today between 2000 and 2007. You should stick to the truth. As regards the 50-year-olds: Mr Federal Minister, you said you made a package of stability, but at the same time you also set a 50-fold standard of labour market policy for people. – The fact is, however, that unemployment has increased by 9.6 percent in just over 50 years of age. In other words, labour market policy is not quite correct in this case. And I wonder why you're not responding. What's the AMS doing? – The AMS manages – it used to be called “work market management”, and the AMS still manages today. It's not a service station. It should actually get a commission for everyone who sends it to a job. That's how it should be. But that's not happening. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] There is a great self-devotion of your own, Mr. Federal Minister, by comparing yourself with other EU countries. But it can't be that the others are going down and drowning and we're gonna follow a little later, because one is taking the other. It can't be that way. We do not have a forward-looking strategy in this area. The rise in unemployment is reality. There are no effective measures to keep people in employment longer. I don't see anyone at all. In view of the not really rusty economic forecasts, this negative trend has to be countered. That's necessary. Mr. Federal Minister Hundstorfer, there is also criticism from your own ranks, for example from Burgenland. The Labour Chamber President Alfred Schreiner says that the older workers in particular are the losers of labour market liberalisation, and more often older people would be exchanged with younger foreign workers. And to control this, he proposes a bonus malus system. So there is also criticism from your own ranks, Mr. Federal Minister. Another area in which there should be changes concerns the commuters. We have so often called on us to go away from the shuttle fee to a kilometre-dependent charge, because the cost of driving through high spray prices is a huge burden and the achievement of the workplace is simply getting more and more cost-effective. It is difficult to maintain the purchasing power. We have a loss of income, a loss of real wages in Austria. And in this regard I agree with the Landtagsclubs, for example the ÖVP from Lower Austria, Styria and also from Burgenland. I have here a letter by Klubobmann Schneeberger from Lower Austria, in which the same is demanded and we are asked to take action in this regard. That is why I now make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] If you are also of this opinion and therefore also of the opinion of these country clubs, then you agree with it, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The Federal Minister, both of you come from the social partners, and the social partners have been praised over and over again over the green clover, but one thing is clear: There are more and more atypical employment relationships. We have a real wage loss in Austria. People can't afford this. That is why it would be necessary for us to fight against this and increase certain things, such as the income from which one must live. An evaluation of the 2012 National Reform Programme and the stability programme of Austria, which was transmitted by the European Commission, also states that the tax system, Mr. Federal Minister, finally needs to be changed and the labour force, so to speak, to be expropriated. It means that within the EU the burden on labour with taxes and social taxes in Austria is the highest. And that's what it's all about, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] It is also necessary to respond to the shortage of skilled workers. In the classic craftsmanships, such as carpenters, lockers, carpenters, electricians, installers and spenglers, we have a shortage today. And I have to ask myself what we are actually training for, because the framework conditions must be set by policy. We are probably only making up more for the administration, and for these professional sectors, which are the classic craftsmanships, we are spending the red-and-white red card because we have too few skilled workers in these areas. There must be a response! But it must also be responded to: We have lost 10,000 operational apprenticeships from 2008 to the present day. They were replaced by the over-company apprenticeship offered by the AMS. But there apprentice training costs the threefold of a company, and then the apprentices are not as trained as they are in an industrial training facility. There is a lack of training results and a lack of professional competence in this over-company apprenticeship offer. This inevitably leads to sustainable unemployment or costly post-qualifications. I can confirm this because I myself worked as an apprentice trainer and also took over people from over-company apprentice workshops, such as from the ÖGB. The training of these apprentices simply did not meet the requirements, not those in the establishments. [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign.]] It must also be responded to, ladies and gentlemen! There's still a lot to do. Away from the lobby, look at the facts in the face!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e10501	The motion for a resolution tabled is under negotiation. The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e10555	Next speaker: Minister of State Dr. Mitterlehner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e10577	Mr President. Dear colleague Rudi Hundstorfer! Ladies and gentlemen! I think today it has been shown all morning that we, what the The European context has reached, relatively - I expressly say - good labour market and youth employment data. And it is now my opinion that we do not leave the numbers that way, but rather draw the right conclusions from it. It was mentioned that I was just coming from a trade conference: That's completely right. And in this context, it has been shown that by having high employment and low unemployment rates, we have been able to keep consumption stable over all the years of the crisis. We have even grown slightly and have been one of those three countries that could contribute to employment through domestic consumption in the whole European context. The second concerns youth employment. There is also a very clear context in youth employment – proven to be European: There, where good training and a system is, youth employment is low. Because I've been talking about the right conclusions: No one is going to do anything without self-satisfaction now, but the overwhelming criticism that we have an apocalypse and everything goes downhill is, I believe, not appropriate. We should just hold on: Businesses create jobs, only when there is demand, but policy must also provide the right framework. And I think they were not wrong, as the data situation shows. This is also the question: With what strategy in the European context are we going into the future? And the diversification we've chosen, or this strategy is right. As you have so often addressed this IMD investigation today, this ranking: If you make the effort, you will read there, for example, that the strategy of internationalisation, the strategy of looking for markets other than Europe, is correct and that it is also right to go to other product areas than the investment goods sector, including services in all possible areas and especially in the creative economy. That is why our strategy is correct, and you can also read it there, but in the overall context you can also note: We've gotten worse in the ranking. We're there on the 21st. It's all right. But make the effort to look closer to what the overall picture looks like. And it looks like there are six out of the euro area among the 21 states. The other fronts are Japan, India – Japan, i.e. the third strongest industrial nation in the world, is not there, does not even appear there; India, the fourth strongest nation, does not even appear in the ranking. Germany – all mean: wonderful, very forward. Do you know how much place Germany is in? ==References== Let's go! We certainly have a weak growth in Europe, and this growth weakness, of course, has an impact on the ranking as a whole. As a tax reform has been addressed: Yes, we need a tax reform. We have too high a tax and tax rate. This is the first point raised among the criticisms. That's what you have to work on together. The other question, however, will be: What are we doing about the euro? And if the Lord Bucher – unfortunately he is not in the hall right now – says so salopp: The first is to put the payments in the direction of Greece, and the frenetic applause of the whole group follows, that sounds great, wonderful! But you have also thought whether, if you were to express your opinion, there would be nothing to pay for us. Not at all, is it really right? Do you think that the system will just continue if nothing is paid? I hope we don't make this mistake and go right there and say: We're not paying any more! There are others who think similarly, also in Germany. I think you need to keep your nerves and take the right action. And the right measures, I think, are to say: I need the Fiscal Pact! I need a policy to get the budgets straight! For Greece was not the problem before that the Greeks had no money – they also got it, but they used it for the wrong areas. That is why we must fight against it. But the other question will be: What's right? I believe first of all the 2020 strategy that we use technologies with renewable energy, with more efficiency. And a second point will be quite certain that we are looking at growth where we still have structural funds that we can use differently. In some cases, Commissioner Hahn does not raise his funds at all. As we have just talked about it, the citizen must feel it: In Spain, there is no dual training in Greece. We offered, we sent people there. So far, they've said: If we don't need it, we can do it ourselves! I think it will be the day on which our offers will be accepted, and then one or the other will develop better. With regard to youth employment: We're working on the coaching programs, Sigisbert, you mentioned. We know that we cannot go into all these areas and that not all are covered with five professions. That's expanding. But the contradiction is already there, only you do not seem to remember. Did you not claim last year – Mr Strache said it – that a million are on the borders and will flood us? – 26 000 were! So you should work out the memory gaps or the calculated gaps or gaps yourself, and then we will discuss some question or other. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] I would now like to refer to what is still necessary from my point of view: It is a balancing act between saving on the one hand and growth-enhancing measures on the other. And in this context, I like the project alliances. And so that you don't confuse it: It's not Eurobonds! Project bonds are the bonds used by the EIB to provide funds for infrastructure projects with a certain leverage effect. Then: What if we don't have these infrastructure projects? – Then we will probably really discuss employment and other things. I also believe that we are currently in a difficult phase, but Masochism, which was expressed at one speech or another, according to the motto: We are already pleased when the euro explodes, so to speak, and the cunts fly around the skull!, or what do I know what has been said: Yes, please, wait a minute! Whether that's our wishful thinking? – I don’t think that can be it, but the wishful thinking can only be that we continue consistently and continuously the course that we have been running with the diversification strategy so far. As far as employment is concerned, I believe that we do not need to talk about the fact that the differences, especially in Austria, were in principle correct, otherwise we would not be so good in terms of the facts. In one area or another, we work together to further improve this, and you should support it. A few approaches were already there in the direction. That'll bring us on. Because what is it about in the final effect? – Not for the debts, not for others, but for the confidence in our own strength, and we have them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e10674	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Matznetter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e10695	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Mrs Belakovich-Jenewein – that was the FPÖ member who spoke shortly before – said something very important: It has accused the Minister for Social Affairs of not having a plan to prevent the deep crisis that would result if the euro zone broke, national currencies would return and the subsequent chaos would lead to hundreds of thousands of unemployed. [[Abg. Ing. Hofer: What about the Roma Foundation?]] [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: No one wants that!]] I know in this House two political groups who want this to happen permanently. One is yours, Mrs. Colleague! No plenary day, on which your clubman strache does not come and would prefer to abolish the euro today and introduce the Schilling tomorrow. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Dr. Bartenstein.]] No day has passed when you do not criticize the packages for the preservation of our common economic zone, no plenary day on which colleagues from the BZÖ do not come out with any plaque, according to the motto: Let us stop receiving our European Union with the possibilities of a common internal market! [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: I haven't heard anything like that yet!]] You're right, Mrs. Colleague! You are right that this would be a chaos, and you are right that the consequence would be disastrous for the labour markets. But don't tell us, but tell your clubman, Mr Kickl and the others! To that end, you must support us in those projects, where we are defending the euro, where we are defending the progress of the European Union. It is precisely then that we need your support and not an almost hateful rejection of the European Union. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: Is the Kickl Social Minister?- Oh, my God!]] But the best safeguard, Mrs Colleague, I am telling you, is that the Federal Government is participating in the solidarity programmes, which make sure that not from the part – we make the plan A, namely that the eurozone remains, that a country like Austria, which has 70 percent exports, continues to find export markets. [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: Do you have a Plan B too? - No!]] You want to cut us off, Mrs. Colleague! You want to see the employees of our companies that export in such a large style on the street as unemployed! Something else can not be the goal, for otherwise you would support us and not argue against us. [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: That's what you do! You have no concept at all!]] Back to the part we have. – Why is Austria so successful? The second confession came from Mr Scheibner, who said: The framework conditions are appropriate. Thank you! There is no better witness for this than him when he speaks for it and says: What the Austrian Federal Government is doing is the best you can do in the biggest crisis for 80 years. And what Minister Hundstorfer has presented to us today proves that it is. We're not the country where the drugs become scarce. We are not the country where every fourth person is unemployed. We are not a country where every second young person is unemployed. The opposite is the case. And that means that good businesses with good employees find the best conditions. [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: What is half of “every second”?]] Against your will, the 2009 tax reform was made. [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: What is the opposite of “every second unemployed”?]] The infrastructure project was made against your will. Against your will, we have ensured that there are our sales markets in the European Union. And: We've done the right thing! If we were to act with an orange button, then we would have hundreds of thousands of unemployed, then we would be in the middle field or at the end in Europe and would have the disaster in us and not in the south of Europe. In this sense, I would like to say a thank you to the ministers acting. It was the right conditions, and we will continue to do so in the service of the Austrians. And I wish that the wisdom of the electorate, which has made a socially democratically led federal government possible during the 2006 and 2007 elections, should be preserved. It did a good job for the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e10843	Next speaker: Mrs Fürntrath-Moretti. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e10864	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Matznetter, you are right, but only: A little less bureaucracy and lower taxes in Austria would be very helpful for competition. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and detonatative applause with the BZÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Growth creates employment, and employment creates growth. And a key to this growth and employment, are well-trained professionals, because only through well-trained professionals can we achieve top performances and produce top quality. But how do we get to these well-trained experts? By university graduates? – Undisputed, we need them. By high school graduates? - We need them too. But what we need most, these are practically well-trained professionals. And these top professionals come from the dual education system, from the teaching. Apprenticeship training, ladies and gentlemen, lasts up to four years. It consists of practical training in the company and complementary vocational training in vocational schools. The course is taught weekly or blocked. With date 31. In December 2011, we had more than 128 000 young people in apprenticeship training, of which almost 120 000 are only trained by entrepreneurs. Minister Hundstorfer said yes: There are just over 9 000 apprentices who are trained in teaching workshops. And here I am of the opinion of Mr Dolinschek: This training is not the one we want. We want a good, highly qualified, practical, professional training, and that is what we have in the companies. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ing. Höbart.]] In this context, I would like to say a great thank you to all the trainers, all entrepreneurs and, above all, the Let us not forget to all vocational school teachers because they are doing their best to ensure that this model is or has become a success model in Austria. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] And that's not always easy: Believe me, I know this from my own experience. I have trained many apprentices and know about the weaknesses and strengths. Some speakers have meant that we need to improve this model. That's what we do. As an example, I would like to mention the model “Teacher with Matura”, which is already very popular in Styria and also in the other federal states. With this model we can also break the glass ceiling with the apprentices. Youth unemployment has already been mentioned. It was also said that Austria is very, very good. Austria is among the top countries with regard to youth unemployment. As many ladies and gentlemen here have mentioned Spain: I was in Fulda last week – for all those who do not know – in Hesse – and I led a conference of SMEs entrepreneurs at European level, and of course the topic of youth unemployment was the top priority. I think Mrs Oberhauser said that training is crucial, and the Spanish say so. It is essential that we come to a well-founded training of young people. It doesn't help us if it's the way it is in Spain: 50 percent youth unemployment – many of them are graduates of universities, many have no education either. We must see that our dual training system, which is really one of the best in the world, is also being carried to these countries. We in Austria offer our help. The Germans also have this good system. So, I think, yes, I am convinced, we can manage to reduce youth unemployment. [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign.]] So an advantage, a win-win situation for all parties involved: Young people are trained in companies to become future professionals, young people get a top education, and these professionals, in turn, secure our business location in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e10953	For the next five speeches, four and a half minutes are available. I call Mr Keck. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e10977	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Yesterday it was Greece, today it is Spain, tomorrow it may be Italy or Cyprus. [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: Watch out! That's where the feces burned!]] The Hiobs messages in terms of economic and financial crisis do not tear off. And despite the many billions for the rescue from bankruptcy, the social crisis in these countries is increasing. In Greece, last 21.7 percent of unemployment has been measured. This is the double of the EU average and an all-time high, the highest ever measured in Greece. In Spain, this ratio is even higher at 24.3 percent, and the highest value has been stabilised for 18 years. In absolute numbers, for example, 5.5 million people are unemployed on the Iberian Peninsula, and that is, in Spain: Every second youth is there without work. And Greece, Spain, but also Italy and Portugal mark the sad lower end of statistics in Europe. Ladies and gentlemen! We know the reasons for this. We must fear that further deterioration in unemployment will occur in these countries. But we also know the other end of this flag rod, and that is fortunately Austria. Our Social Minister, Mr Hundstorfer, and also our Minister for Economic Affairs Mitterlehner, have explained the social situation in our country, and we still have a very, very positive balance sheet with all the challenges that the economic crisis poses for our country. Also, the opposition cannot ignore the fact that with 3.9% unemployment, we are taking an outstanding first place in Europe and trying to keep it. And we have the second best place in the field of youth unemployment, and no one can talk bad, ladies and gentlemen. It is precisely here that the SPÖ-led Federal Government was active with the right instruments from the first day onwards. For example, through the “Action Future Youth!” all targeted training courses between 19 and 24 year olds or the opportunity to promote employment. In 2012, more than 59 000 young people have already started work, 33 797 have used a course offer, i.e. they have been in employment on this course offer. And with over-company training facilities, we can bring almost all job-seekers to work. Ladies and gentlemen, this is exemplary – not only in Europe, I believe that this is also a world-wide example of what this government is doing! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] However, ladies and gentlemen, we must never rest. The crisis of our trading partners, the partner of Austria, is going through more and more. The rise to 231 077 jobseekers is not surprising. We are of course also very concerned with individual sectors. 2.4 per cent more unemployed in the production sector are a problem, as are 3.8 per cent in trade and even 8.8 per cent in construction. But I am sure, ladies and gentlemen, that the right measures will also be taken by the government here, just as we did at the beginning of the crisis with short-time work or other targeted measures to keep unemployment very low. And that, ladies and gentlemen, is the difference. The Faymann government knows people's concerns and develops solutions together with them. This gives us a perspective and also makes us top riders in Europe, even worldwide. – In other words, because it has already occurred before, than in black and blue, where we had a higher unemployment in the high economy that existed at that time than now in the fourth year of the crisis. This shows, ladies and gentlemen, that we are on the right track. A warm thanks to our two ministers dog torfer and Mitterlehner!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e11020	Next speaker: Mr Donabauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e11041	Mr President. Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen on the televisions and here in the high house! In principle, I am glad that I was born in Europe and that I am Austrian. I think we have no reason to rejoice over everything or to be satisfied with everything, but we have every reason to deal with a very reasonable development in an objective manner. These panicic troubleshoots I'm looking for this morning. has experienced several times here, is something that no one brings on and does not make you more popular. Of course, the question is: Where are we going?, a challenge for us, for Europe as a whole. In addition to the financial crisis or the financial problems we all know, the question of employment and work for people is, of course, a very, very crucial one. This has always been the focus of state policy here in Austria, with all governments. And this is also the reason why we can show a positive result today, although there is of course still great challenge. But I think it can be seen, and we were able to cope with short-term fluctuations, which have always been repeated. It is crucial to me that only when we have work have we ensured social peace, that only then can we further expand our infrastructure, that our health policy, social policy, our education policy and so on can continue to offer our citizens. It is crucial, however, that we not only think towards work, but also towards the purchasing power of the population and that we focus on intelligent products, because we can only secure them in the international markets. Everything that has been produced and not sold is not yet a source of value. There, I think, we have also tried in recent years, and we can say that the development has been successful. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Personally, education and training is a major concern for me. This is also a concern of the Federal Government, we hear it at all lectures. I also think that we should take, on a case-by-case basis, new ways of dealing with the whole question of orientation and career guidance. Not the next best profession or the next best school should be decisive, but the inclination, the possibilities, the orientation of the individual. We still have a lot of work to do, pick up and improve. I think we're all trying together to achieve these things. Ministers Mitterlehner and Hundstorfer – he has presented a report today – have said that there must be a framework in the establishments too. Excessive requirements, excessive laws do not promote work. This is a problem that we must see very well, and we can also say that publicly. That is why we must really think in this area about the beneficial, the feasible and the possible. In Austria, not only the manufacturing economy is an employer, but also tourism and tourism. This is possible because we have an intact cultural landscape. I would just like to use this parliamentary speech to say the following: Yes, we are asked for tourist because we have unique cultural goods, a good infrastructure, but also the cultural landscape, as previously said, is fine. For this purpose, 400 000 to 500 000 people work in and around agriculture. That too is employment! If these people do not find their working world there, they push on the labour market and thus burden the rest of the labour market. We all don't want to. What people there do with enthusiasm, we should also allow them in the future. Some people are very upset that, very often, party-politically motivated, all that goes towards farming is criticized. That doesn't make any sense! I think the workplace farm is not more expensive and not cheaper, it is a job like any other and should be valued as well. This will continue to be borne by society as a whole in the future, but farmers will do a great job for all of us, and they will also contribute to the further development of our economy. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In this sense, I think we can take note of today's reports calmly and look forward to further good development.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e11110	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Höbart. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e11132	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Oberhauser – You just swirl around the back – perhaps a few facts about minimum security, which you so euphorically call “spatchboard” into the working world: They know that around 80 percent of the minimum insurance beneficiaries in Vienna have, we say, no Austrian roots. This should be a picture that opens up to us to finally wake up. [[Abg. Dr. Oberhauser: What do you want to say?]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] A second fact, which I would like to share with you, is an approximately two-year-old study from the Ministry of Federal Minister Mitterlehner, in which, for example, – and this is not a liberal study – about 30 to 50 percent of foreign young people or young people with migration backgrounds are part of the education and training system. That too is a fact. Do you perhaps also call this a ‘ springboard’ in productivity to do something here in our Republic? – You have to write this to these ladies and gentlemen in the main book at last. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Oberhauser: What do you want to say?]] The title of this report by the Federal Minister alone: “Austrian labour market in the European context – investing in growth and employment”: Now I wonder quite openly how long do you actually need to implement this title? – It is of course that you enter the labour market... [[Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig:... no idea!]] What do you mean, I don't know? – Probably 70, 80 percent in your series have never even drawn a pencil in the economy! That is the problem in this House. I would also like to say that to you. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Last: What about government policy? – This writing is not a free invention in this Republic: They have long described this policy of the government as empty and as empty. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Oberhauser.]] That's the problem! But I would like to talk to our young people in the next few minutes. We know these are particularly harsh. Of course, you can now make a little bit of a fine speech and say that Austria is better than the European average. But when I get to the “peak of the mirror, ” I see that it is on the 21st. May this year wrote by the “lost generation. ” [[Abg. Dr. Oberhauser: But not ours!]] There youth unemployment is regarded as devastating and, above all, the situation in the EU as worrying. Here are some facts and facts: Italy 30 percent, Slovenia 15 percent, Hungary... [[Abg. Dr. Oberhauser: What about Austria?]] I'll talk to you soon, thank you. – Hungary 25 percent, Slovakia 33 percent. Spain and Greece: 50 percent, every other youth is unemployed there. Now to Austria: We know – we always have a bit of a discussion – 40 000 young people are officially unemployed and about 30 000 to 35 000 are in over-company training centres. [[Federal Minister Hundstorfer: 9 000, please!]] No, that's – please, we can look at it more closely. [[Federal Minister Hundstorfer: Yes! Just because the numbers...!]] Finally, we do not have 8 per cent youth unemployment, but certainly 13 to 14 per cent. That is why I have already called the Minister here a tricker. These are just wrong numbers that you represent here. Almost 6 million young people are currently looking for work within the EU. There's nothing right here, and you can't do painting any more! Let's also talk briefly about the east opening last May. The Burgenland has already been brought to the tapet by two previous speakers, I would like to support this once again. Do you know what SPÖ State Councillor Dr. Rezar said? Two quotes from him: There is a real flood of foreign workers on the employment market in Burgenland. And the second quote: Every newly created job in Burgenland is not going to an Austrian. – Statements by your comrade. [[In the direction of Federal Minister Hundstorfer.]] Talk to the Council of State. Perhaps he has already fallen in your favor because he unfortunately reveals your policy. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] The last point, which always comes up here again and again, is that the Chamber of Commerce, interestingly, often shouts up and says: We need even more immigration, our economy suffers from a shortage of skilled workers! Now we ask ourselves and as a youth speaker, I mean, perfectly right: Why are there not more training initiatives between the economy to provide young people with rapid and efficient training for skilled workers? That's where we need a lot of food. I don't need to cry great after new immigration, but there you just have to set up professional training initiatives and expand them further. I'm not saying there's something like that. [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign.]] But there must be even more effort. Ladies and gentlemen! The youth chooses, and we know, for good reason, freedom of choice. The last study speaks of 17 to 20 percent. As I said, the youth knows and... [[Abg. Donabauer: That was the newspaper three weeks ago!]] No, no – okay, three weeks ago: Perhaps it's already 25 percent – thank you, Mr. Cot! Thank you. [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign again.]]
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e11315	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Schwentner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e11347	Mr President. Mr. Minister! The elections have not yet been taken, Mr Höbart, and what the youth chooses will be wise. [[Abg. Ing. Höbart: That's what we're looking at, yeah!]] There are also the pirates, and they may also be voters, especially voters in the case and not voters who may come across you. [[Intervocations at ÖVP and FPÖ.]] But on another subject, and I would like to invite the ministers behind me, also Mrs Fürntrath-Moretti, who comes from Graz and should know the Styria well, and those SPÖ delegates – now there are few – from the Styria who are here. I would recommend a business trip to Styria. The Semmering is in between, but it's not so high that you can't overcome it. If you look at it, then today's picture is a bit overcrowded. The whole painting of numbers you have presented today turns around a little bit when you look into the Styria, where the so-called so-called - you can shake your head, Mrs. Colleague, it is so - reform partners are at work, the so-called reform partners. [[Abg. Steibl: I think you're too much...!]] There, unemployment is so high compared to all the other federal states that it really becomes really fraternal! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] In no other federal state has the unemployment rate increased as in Styria, by 10.3 percent compared with May of the previous year! This is true in this case, both men and women, and it is especially the areas where the public sector has so far contributed to a stable employment situation. This is, on the one hand, the construction industry, which is primarily the case for men; and this is the care and social sector, which affects women and, on the other hand, very many people who work in the social and disability sectors, but also people who are themselves affected. You have to answer that from ÖVP and SPÖ! I find it remarkable that there has not yet been a single word on what it looks like in the Styria and what the Styria represents in this regard in a very sad way. [[Abg. Dr. Bartenstein: But in Graz, green has co-ruled!]] In Graz, Green has co-regulated, but in this case it is the reform partnership, which has saved 25 percent in the care and social sectors. [[Abg. Steibl: But it's about promotions!]] The Greens have nothing to do with this, exactly nothing! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] You can also look at Friday. On Friday, before the day of the land – I invite you – there is a guard. It shows how people are doing in the areas of Styria. [[Abg. Steibl: It costs time and money...!]] This concerns very, very many disabled people. It is now true – and this has been demonstrated by the government, at least by the Graz Human Rights Advisory Council – that the UN Human Rights Convention is already being violated, especially in the areas of assistance to disabled people. And what are assistant services? These are primarily women's jobs. [[Abg. Kößl: It's pure populism!]] It's not pure populism from me. What you're doing in the Styria is irresponsible, massively irresponsible. I would highly recommend that you look at it and correct it because it... [[Abg. Steibl:... on debt you can't do that!]] You can't do it on debt, but what you do is unemployed: Unemployed produce without end! If Mrs. Csörgits says that you have to look after the unemployed and there's enough help, I'd say it shouldn't get that far. As far as the Steiermark is concerned, it must not come anywhere! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] That's what you're responsible for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e11493	Next speaker: Mrs Kaufmann-Bruckberger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e11525	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! I refer to the press release of the 9th century. May, where Mr Matznetter told the SPÖ press service – I quote – that: "There is a need to consolidate state finances, but at the same time there is a need for a policy to promote growth and employment. In this context, Matznetter refers to the demands of economic expert Markus Marterbauer, who, in addition to the gradual reduction of the budget deficit, especially recommends fighting unemployment, especially youth unemployment." And then we're going to go on: “Crise management is based not only on savings, but mainly on investment in growth and employment. This ensures Austria’s purchasing power in the country”. If you read it this way, you actually think the SPÖ is serious. But, ladies and gentlemen – and you have to remember that again and again – it was you – he is unfortunately not here – you were the ones who just recently decided on a load package! [[Federal Minister Dr. Mitterlehner:... Matznetter say!]] Since then, the term Working Poor has a whole new meaning. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Poverty was once very easy to define. They used to say: Well, these are the unemployed, these are the homeless people. In the meantime, however, pensioners and pensioners already belong to the single earners and all-earners. And one thing you also have to say: Poverty is not a problem of the lower edge of the population, but poverty has already become a social problem. I'm just saying more: Working Poor. [[Abg. Dr Bartenstein: Member of Parliament, look at...!]] If I look at the latest figures in the employment situation in Austria, I have to say that the approximately 231,000 unemployed still come to the 71 000 people who are in re-training or who have been sent to re-training so that the unemployment numbers are somewhat beautiful. That is, we are talking about 300,000 people without work, but we are also talking about some 300,000 people in this country, which must be included in the Working Poor. That means those people who earn up to €950 a month. So we are talking about nearly 600,000 people in Austria, for whom it is not normal to have a warm home or a warm meal on the table. Mr. Federal Minister Hundstorfer, if you go to the 101. The International Labour Conference in Geneva has presented the proposal that each youth should be offered within six months either training or training, a teaching centre, a job or another employment measure, then I would like to congratulate you very much today, especially with regard to Greece, Italy, Portugal and, as mentioned more often today, Spain, where youth unemployment is already over 50 percent. Mr Federal Minister, I would also like to see your optimism for the many young people in this country who have been parked in over-company teaching workshops, or for those young people in this country who do not finish school, who have to do their job as auxiliary workers, and thus also let the numbers of future working poors go up quickly, so that they have no perspective for the future. Mr. Federal Minister Hundstorfer, with your coalition partner – the right contact person is already sitting next to you – you are strong for the Austrian companies to create jobs: whether it be through tax incentives, or also through a recovery action by a migrant company or simply by introducing the fair tax that we have so often called for. Finally, and I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that we are all agreed: Unemployment cannot be small enough, but we must also fight poverty!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e11583	Next speaker: Mr Steindl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e11604	Mr President. Mr. Federal Ministers on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. We are experiencing the dramatic effects in the southern European countries when economies lose their competitiveness. There, of course, employment in many areas is no longer possible as it was before. That is why we will have to do everything we can to maintain competitiveness in Austria. We are here on a very successful path, we have used the opportunities in recent years. Since 2000, we have implemented appropriate reforms to work on the attractiveness of the Austrian economic location – and this has been successful, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. For example, measures such as group taxation, which have long been part of international standards, have also been introduced here in Austria, so that, for example, we now have more than 1 900 organ companies instead of 13,000 organ companies. But what is even more pleasing, ladies and gentlemen: In these institutions, we have now been able to increase the number of employees from 400 000 to 1 200 000. In addition, the effect is that corporate tax revenue has grown from 1.7 billion to €5 billion. Overall, this is a very successful economic policy in Austria, based on the fact that we have diversification. We have set the economy wide in Austria. We are very, very well positioned in terms of services; more than 60 percent of people are already employed in the service sector. Therefore, in addition to the beautiful country we have in Austria, the most important resource is our people and employees, where we have everything to do with the fact that we represent and offer training as best we can. We have really high, very high standards in some areas, especially with regard to skilled workers' training, in dual vocational training, where the world always envys us that we have excellent skilled workers. But we have too few of these specialists. We must do everything we can to motivate these skilled workers, especially young people, to learn the same occupations, which ultimately also provide appropriate employment security. Overall, we are in Austria, I believe, with our possibilities and measures, also in terms of international competition. With an export rate of more than 62 percent of the gross social product, we are also able to export our services and goods to the European sector as well as to the whole world. We are also constantly looking for new export markets. That is why I would like to thank the ministers who are also working in this area. Finally, there can be prosperity and social peace only if we have people Keeping in employment, and that is what we are doing in Austria. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e11649	President. — The debate is closed. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e11671	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! A few speeches make it necessary – in order to get a little better out of your own psycho-hygiene today – to clarify something. Mr Höbart, I only pay 9 000 BBA places, so do not always explain to me that I pay 40 000. I don't pay her! We pay 9 000, 9 700 BBA places. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ing. Höbart.]] They claimed that it was 40,000. 80 per cent of these are for one year, because, of course, occupational training is a priority, because of course, it is a question of starting the business immediately after this year. And that also takes place at 90 percent, which is not at all a topic. And, of course, we'll see that everything goes into the farms. - That's the one point. And so that we can understand about it: We don't hide any numbers of training, not at all! Since I'm Minister, you've got all the numbers at the same time, you haven't gotten that before. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] That was claimed here as well. We do not hide that, we openly say what is training and what is just unemployment. For the training courses: If you're really serious about what you're saying here, please look at what trainings we're offering, what it really is about! The criticism, which was practiced three years ago, that three times “How do I apply for it?” is history. That's no longer there, it's stopped. We have 260 551 people in training or integration aid in the first five and a half months of this year alone. 260,551! Ladies and gentlemen of the liberals, whether you like it or not, the length of stay in unemployment has fallen. We have declining unemployment careers. The stay dates back to two days. [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: But there is more unemployed!]] Yes, it has become more because, of course, we also have access to the labour market, among other things, because women are longer in the acquisition process because, for example, women in the previous year helped us to increase the retirement age by 0.2 because women remain longer in the employment process. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl]] That's what helped us to do. If the women stay longer in the employment process, I have older workers longer. You should rule this one-time bill, Mr. Kickl. [[Abg. Riepl: basic accounting methods!]] You should know that's the way it is. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] And again to clarify: The BMS is and remains a springboard, for otherwise, 31,000 people would not have worked. In addition, in Lower Austria we have more full-BMS referees than in Vienna. It is just a problem, how statistics are compiled and how they are expected. That's one of the issues. [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: We didn't get the numbers!]] Mrs Belakovich-Jenewein, last time I haven't had her, but in the meantime you know the quality of my house: I got her. That's perfectly clear. The evaluation will also come, and you will get it. That's perfectly clear, too. [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: Super!]] So that we don't misunderstand each other: We do not understand the BMS as a hammock at all, but with the BMS we have for the first time a construction that is a springboard, and for the first time it is also possible – and I already want to represent – to shorten a social assistance relationship. This was not possible in this country until two years ago. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stefan.]] The BMS is the minimum guarantee, Mr Mag. Stefan, that should be clear. [[President Dr. Graf takes over the chairmanship.]] Coming to the end: Mr. Ing. Höbart, I know you always want to print some G’s layers as a youth speaker. That's nice, but, don't be angry – there's a lot, no question at all, they have to be taken care of all the time – it's only 34 000 young people from 15 to 24 years of age. years of age who have been reported unemployed. - Point one. Point two: Look, Mr Höbart, now we're right at the point: If you want to assume to this federal government that we are hiding people in a free, democratic country, then consider what choice of words you are meeting here. We don't hide anyone at all! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Street: In the statistics hide the people!]] No, not even in the statistics. We don't need to make any misinformation, as is usual in your party. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e11805	The next speaker was Mr Dr. Strutz. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e11827	Mr President. High house! If one has listened to the government parties today and now again to the Minister, then one actually has the impression that in Austria everything is rosy, that we live on an island of the Blessed and that we have no problems. The reality, ladies and gentlemen, is unfortunately quite another. Mr Minister and honourable colleagues from the Social Democrats, please go to the labour market service, talk to the people who are in the queue and who are fighting for work and who hope for work! This seems to me like the Titanic: The whole of Europe is about to fall, the euro is going down, but the Austrian Federal Government is on its way, is celebrating itself, is knocking on its shoulders, says how good we are, what we are doing for great programmes, and that everything is actually the best. Also on your programmes, Mr Federal Minister, because you addressed them and said that these trainings “How do I apply for the right thing?” have been discontinued. – Unfortunately, that is not the case! 70,000 young people are in training. And what is being trained there? You yourself have now issued a regulation of the Federal Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs for the employment of foreign professionals in disability professions, that is, in disability professions, where we urgently need foreign professionals. These are roof decks, sweaters, building tables, construction penglers, carpenters, lockers, floorers, wooden machinery builders. Why are we unable to train and train in these areas in your area of competence, in the AMS, so that we do not have to bring in foreign professionals? [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In the meantime, the SPÖ has used a course correction. Now it's said we're not supposed to break up. Who ordered the Austrians of this load package? Who is responsible for breaking up in Austria? – That was the SPÖ, that was the ÖVP with the biggest load package we have in this Republic. The Austrians didn't want that. Why was it necessary? - Because you sent the money to Greece. One last point: If it is really serious to you, then postpone the decision on the ESM, then postpone the decision on this Stability Pact, because that means that future generations will be burdened for years, that we have no means to stimulate employment in our country, to secure the prosperity of the country and to ensure the future with training and social networks for the Austrians!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e11875	Mrs Steibl is speaking on behalf of the last provisional speaker on this item in the agenda. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e11896	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! As the last speaker of this morning, I try to sum up and add up briefly. However, I would like to begin by saying to Mrs Schwentner from Styria: You should use your guard to count better. The social budget amounted to €342 million in Styria 2010, €360 million in 2011 and €339 million in 2012. That's where I ask you how you're going to get 25 percent less. So the greens should stay with the thing. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Much has been said, and I think three points are essential. The best basis is employment. This includes framework conditions, including competitiveness and economic success. There is a need for economic success, of course, for companies, but also for workers, and a central point in this context is the optimal compatibility of family and work, family and work. Families in our country should be able to live in secure conditions and shape their lives as they want, and not as the state wants. This also includes freedom of choice instead of full time. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Worm: But not only part-time work!]] Freedom of choice instead of full time! Part-time work is an essential aspect for a certain period of time in order to make compatibility possible. A abolition of the job opportunities for part-time work, Mrs Colleague, is therefore certainly not a question for us by the ÖVP. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Of course, an expansion towards a faster change is to support or force back into full-time, but also a better billing of child rearing times of four full years. Overall, however, a good labour market policy is being made. In the context of good labour market policy today also the Burgenland was often called, where it was about what the SPÖ delegates from the country said there. The labour market service was also addressed. Mr Federal Minister, I have spoken of reconciliation for women and, in the sense of solidarity with women, I would like to thank you for ordering at least Mrs Sengstbratl for a further period of time with your good spirit and your speech. I think – knowingly also as a neighbor from Styria – that good work has been done here, and thank you for it. I wish the AMS Chef for the next period also a lot of strength and good working relations with her team.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e11955	No one is reporting on this. I therefore conclude the debate. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Dolinschek, colleagues, on the urgency of a package for the discharge of commuters. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. [[13:13:12]] 2. Point Report of the Building Committee on the Austrian Building Culture Report 2011, presented by the Federal Chancellor (III-313/1797 d.B.)
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e12000	We're coming to the 2nd. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mrs Mag. Mag. has spoken. Mulder. If desired, 3 minutes of speaking time will be set. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e12028	Ladies and gentlemen! I am very pleased that the 2011 report on construction culture is being discussed as the second item on the agenda here in plenary. This, of course, also shows the public and the people involved the importance of building culture for politics. First of all, however, I would like to thank Mr Ostermayer, the Secretary of State, who is responsible for the building culture report, for which material and ideal support for the state of life and also for working freely, autonomously and without any content. However, I am particularly grateful to the members of the Advisory Council for Building Culture and those of the Working Community on Architecture Policy and Building Culture for the content and preparation of the report and for its great commitment. For each of us – and if only unconsciously – it is clear how important the built environment is when we remember that we spend most of our lives in rooms or at least in designed environment. Building culture has in principle a high priority and a comprehensive claim. It deals not only with all areas of construction, but also with neighboring disciplines and goes beyond the immediate construction decision. In principle, the 2011 Baukulturreport claims to analyze problems and develop solutions. In this he also differs from the first report in 2006, which actually offered an overall view. There are three exemplary themes that are considered to be important, namely “futureable”, “citizen close”, “competent”, and these are summarized among the topics of sustainability, construction culture at municipal level and school construction. The main topics also include case studies, which show very clearly what Austria has done so far, and also how well we actually stand in the international comparison. In terms of content, the building culture report assumes important premises, namely that the meaning of building exists in the creation of habitat and of development opportunities for people and the culture of building all involved in this process The aim is to include – from the idea, the planning, the construction to the use. My colleagues will still comment on the individual main points of content. In conclusion: It is worth noting the suggestion of the authors of the report to set up a research centre for structural issues as a further development of federal housing research. Financing options are also provided. In total, the Austrian Building Culture Report is an important document and, in large parts, also a useful guide to future building activities. We should take her. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e12086	The next speaker was Mr Singer. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e12107	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Thanks to my predecessor, Mr Becher, I can only support the creation of this building culture report. I would also like to address the priorities of this report. The first focus is listed under the term “future” and, as an essential pillar, includes sustainability and, above all, the optimization of thermal renovation. The term “citizen close” refers to the anchoring of the building culture at local level, because the municipalities are, in total, the largest clients of public construction contracts, but the municipalities are also in the construction process, in the middle of the construction process and, of course, also responsible for the land assignment plan. Under the term “competent” the building culture report finally deals with school construction and also – for me an important point – the construction culture communication to young people. In addition to this presentation of the priorities, a number of recommendations are also included and best-practice examples from all over Austria are described. I should like to draw particular attention to some recommendations. Firstly, to increase ecological effectiveness. The report calls for incentives for renovation, especially for buildings of the immediate post-war period and for one or two-family houses, because these types of houses are, of course, the greatest potential for improvement. Thanks be to God, we have already created an important incentive with the Rehabilitation Check, which makes up €100 million a year. I hope that we will also achieve the appropriate framework conditions in the rental law. Another point is the optimization of large-volume buildings. Here, too, we are dealing with the thermal standards. The authors often see the advantages of size and compactness as insufficiently useful in the area of heat protection and home-technical qualities. Another point is that they no longer want to assume the cost of construction in the assessment of economy, efficiency and economy, but rather the cost of life cycle. This means that the costs of the building should not be relevant at the time of construction, but the costs for the entire life of the property. Ladies and gentlemen, building culture is also a topic of conversation culture. The involvement of all those involved in the decision requires a high degree of mutual understanding, but from my point of view, it contributes significantly to the acceptance, satisfaction and quality of the forum. In this context, the issue of willingness to innovate is also to be seen. We need to develop, quite clearly, in the procurement, in the promotion, in the administration. Innovation also needs the claim not to be satisfied with the achievement. Ladies and gentlemen, another call concerns the promotion and intensification of Community-wide cooperation on the issues of spatial planning, demand management and intercommunal construction management. As mayor, I support these demands. There are, of course, – and I am very pleased about this – already some positive examples in the federal states. I should like to take one example, namely the common administration of construction law of 12 municipalities with about 30 000 inhabitants in Vorarlberg. Ladies and gentlemen, in my opinion, the 2011 building culture report contains important statements, lists demands that will hopefully lead to an open discussion. I would like this report to have a positive impact on Austrian construction practices. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e12172	Next speaker: Mr Vock. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e12193	My President! Mr State Secretary! [[Abg. Dr Bartenstein: ‘I am’s, dei President!’]] The present report is a comprehensive summary of the construction culture in Austria. You can wait for the 45 recommendations of this report to be taken into account by the Federal Government. Otherwise, the 178,600 € would be a sad number – money that once again closed without anything being implemented. Again: 178 600 € give 45 recommendations for the Federal Government and hopefully will also be implemented. A significant part of this report concerns thermal rehabilitation. The promotion of thermal renovation means, on the one hand, safeguarding jobs, on the other, the objective of reducing domestic CO2 production. 100 million € for the construction industry, which is 7 000 to 10 000 jobs that we secure, are 135 million euros in savings in unemployment benefits – we have previously talked about the AMS policy. We have 100 million € in payroll tax revenue and 162 million € in social security contributions. That means 400 million € in revenue by 100 million € promotion. A wonderful business for the government! We should make such transactions more often, that could be very helpful to our budget. Instead, we prefer to invest abroad. We buy certificates to clean up in China, we clean up the euro in Greece. That is, instead of helping the domestic construction industry, we prefer to help abroad. However, we should also be a good example. When I look at the renovation of the high house when I look up on the ceiling, I remember the walk with the architect who was asked if the construction of the roof chair would withstand an expected snow load. The architect said: There you can be calmed, because the entire ambient air of the house is heated, there is no snow load at all, which is immediately converted into water. Snow cannot be left here in the House, because we are not just the name of Parliament, we are also called the airspace around Parliament. – Wonderful thermal rehabilitation! Let us finally reorganize this House, and let us not dream of setting a monument for a President. [[Bravoruf at the FPÖ.]] In conclusion, it should be said: It is better to invest money in the domestic construction industry than, for example, buy certificates for measures in China or finance arms purchases in Greece.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e12239	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Zinggl. 6 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e12260	Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! It is good that there is an advisory board that critically observes building in Austria. It is good that there is also a report, no question at all. I remember the time when we had the excuses from the Ministry of the Environment that the Ministry of Transport was guilty. The Ministry of Transport has directed it to the Ministry of Economic Affairs and, in turn, to the Ministry of Finance, or vice versa. In another variant, the countries have said that the federal government is responsible. The Federation has said that the communities must do something. - I can't do that anymore. It doesn't get any more. In this respect, it is good that there is such an institution that gathers all in a boat. And that was certainly an effort of the Greens, who succeeded five years ago in setting up a central, responsible body that is actually turning to the government. We're not satisfied, that's quite clear. Firstly, this advisory board is not well equipped financially, and secondly, it is toothless. He meets three times a year, and every five years there is the report. It's a little poor already. That's what's inside, it's not bad. The recommendations and suggestions are very useful. But the recommendations we are reading today are the same recommendations that have already been made within five years, and that is the sorrow. Example Separation: Austria, ladies and gentlemen, looks horrible, cruel. It is tragic if there are 22 hectares per day – in the building culture report it is already established at the time, but now as an even worse number – to be installed in addition to 22 hectares; then there is a real need for action! And there's nothing to do with the government saying that two hectares a day would be good. It's too much. But that's meaty. Who cares? That's totally empty. And for example, when I remember Sepp Forcher's show on the ORF "In the Land eini" – I know a cameraman who complains about it and complains that it is increasingly difficult for him to find any attitudes that are still half relevant to the eye. It then starts to film after a construction sin with the camera and has to stop before the next building sin, but the sequences are getting shorter and shorter. That says a lot. It also comes out very well from the building culture report that it is true that in many cases these building sins and these accentuating are not at all economic. If, for example, close to the motorways is built, then it is necessary to build on the soundproof walls which are financed by the public authorities. This is already a consequence which may benefit individuals, but less for the Community. The soundproof walls are obviously not only built to keep the sound away, but also possibly so that one does not see the building sins. The fact that the landscape cannot be seen, of course, is a negative effect, which does not make us all very happy. We know that cultures cannot be ordered by law, nor, of course, by building cultures. But measures can be taken very well, ladies and gentlemen. Some recommendations have been addressed, almost the same as five years ago. But I repeat this one or the other, because it should give us thought to think to give in so far as nothing happens. An important suggestion is the advice of decision-makers, i.e. the mayor and the Board of Directors, in particular, who can ultimately make decisions on dedication. Why aren't these people being trained properly? Why are they always only informed in the relevant municipal academies about legal and legal possibilities or needs, but not about transport, ecological and economic needs in connection with construction? This can be made relatively easy, but I think it would be a good investment. Considering that the mayors in all communities can use this possibility of dedication according to good intentions and also use it as a political playing card for small money, there would certainly be the need for training. For example, this could be financed by a foundation – it is also included in the report – or through a fund, no matter what. This would not take as many additional resources as possible. It is proposed that this could be financed by the rest of the housing research or the reconstruction fund. Mr State Secretary, I asked you in committee: Are we going to make this foundation? Make You this foundation? - You didn't give me an answer. I would like to ask you once again in plenary and for the Minutes: Why is such a foundation not made? And if it is made, when is it made? What does she cost? Are there any considerations at all? I could add a few things, for example, that the Federal Government is simply explained once – that is, a confession, a declaration of a reasonable building culture –: “We confess to the community building with those and the criteria ” – which could then be prepared by this advisory board, by this board of foundations or whatever, as is the case in Finland. Why can't this happen to us? – Then there could be criteria, as we have heard from the previous speakers, for example, that such a thing as this short-term thinking of a misinterpreted economy is interpreted a little differently. Because it doesn't make sense to say that the cheapest get the construction order if the cheapest do not include thermal insulation. So if life cycle costs – as an interpretation the economy – it can then happen that perhaps not the cheapest, but the 5 percent expensive one gets the order, but that it takes long-term energy saving measures over thermal insulation. All this, ladies and gentlemen, has already been in the building culture report five years ago. We agreed to the report at the time. We agree again today. We will probably agree in five years. But the report is turned to the government, and nothing happens there. The report is for the fish, if not at all! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e12357	The next speaker was Mr Markowitz. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e12379	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! It is gratifying that the 2011 Baukulturreport was presented. It is clear that it contains good proposals, namely 45 in terms of how to change something in this country, how to improve and, above all, where you can also put in place savings measures. The amount of costs for the report has remained quite the same compared with the first report, with € 178 000 now. I should like to congratulate you, Mr State Secretary – this report has been “transmigrated” from the Ministry of Art and Culture to you – because I congratulate you on having the responsibility over this matter now. I already expect that in the long term the goal must be to bring about a uniform law at federal or national level, so that there are no, as at present, virtually different construction regulations, each federal country almost cooks its own soup, but that we have clear guidelines and in the future construction will also become cheaper. If you look at the report that is really good, then it must be the goal if we get a report with 45 proposals back in five years and in truth nothing or little has been implemented, because this body, as it has already rightly announced, simply does not have the opportunity to implement or demand that there be really different points to be implemented. This is what I expect from you, Mr State Secretary, that we will be standing here in 5 years and then say: First of all, the report has become cheaper – that would be the best. Secondly, the 2011 report implemented the 45 proposals – we do not take too high – 20. This has saved the Republic a lot of money, of course, to the individual citizens. I think this is a good day, because we have been here together today and discussed it so that the report is not only a paper, where mayors, experts, who, of course – I do not agree with them – have done good work in the last five years, but also had a sense in this regard, because they must also be valued. And then, I think, they are not called on to produce a paper that we read through, discuss here and then nothing will be implemented. – I would definitely expect the implementation. Something that was naturally addressed and absolutely correct is the dispersal. That's, I think, a major problem. At first, I could not believe that we really do every day – you mentioned it correctly, devoting Mr Zinggl – to 34 football fields. That's incredible! That's really crazy! Then we don't need to wonder that we have a shattering, that we have to build roads and so on, and that the money is shattering us under our fingers in this regard. [[Abg. Ablinger: It's enough for the EURO!]] - Yeah, well, you're right: What do we do with so many football matches? That's right, absolutely. - But fun side by side. We don't need that in the future. It all costs a lot of money. Of course, it brings with it that factor, we know that plenty of €2.7 billion will be generated. Of course, that's crazy. Of course, the communities need the money, but in the long run we should already consider how we deal with this. That is why I am also presenting a motion for a resolution by Mr Markowitz, Mr Spadiut, Mr Bucher and Mr Scheibner on the reform of the building legislation in the framework of the BZÖ initiative “Reconstructing Austria – comprehensive state and Parliament reform”. The National Council wants to decide: The Federal Government is invited to submit to the National Council, as soon as possible, draft laws aimed at a federal uniform construction and spatial planning legislation. Why? – In order to achieve exactly what I mentioned earlier, there is a reform, that there is an Austrian federal law in this regard, that you do not fail as your colleague Mitterlehner did in the question that there is the Federal Youth Protection in Austria. We hope that there will really be a single solution here. I am sure that we will be standing here in five years and will talk about a report that is cheaper and more efficient and shows that some points have really been implemented well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e12423	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e12488	Mr Ostermayer spoke on the issue of an opinion. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e12509	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Zinggl has challenged me, and since I have been active for many years in the area of supported housing and rehabilitation, I know what can be changed towards building culture, towards architecture, towards ecology in construction. I am therefore not as reticent as you have just said, on the topic of building culture advisory board and construction culture report. I think both of them make sense. The question is: What expectations do you have? If one assumes that the Building Culture Advisory Council is something like a super-building authority or a super-dition authority that can conduct exactly throughout Austria, where what is being built, where what is dedicated, if one assumes that this Advisory Board is something like a constitutional legislator that can change the responsibilities of federal, country, community, then one must resign. That can never be the task. Of course, it is a division of tasks between the municipalities, both now as a builder and as a building authority, to the countries, to the federal government. In the federal government, it is divided again between the various departments, the main focus of which is the Minister of Economic Affairs, both what the head of the castle will be and what will be the responsibility for the federal real estate company. But if you look at what's happening there, that also confirms my optimism. So if you look at the projects of the BIG for example, there are architectural, architecturally excellent things. If you know various measures of the countries – more concrete and precise and practical in detail and I knew of Vienna of course – how to use housing development to promote the quality of construction in the area of renovation and new construction, even then I am optimistic and non-resignative. I believe that there have been many positive points not only since the last building culture report, but also before. Of course, the last building culture report – the first – has also had a different function than the current one. He was such a general review with a rather smaller edition. The current one has also been designed to encourage the Building Cultural Advisory Council to focus on a few topics, on three topics – they have already been mentioned by my previous speakers – and is very widely distributed to all those who have to do with buildings where buildings are responsible at the federal, state, community level. I think a lot has happened. It's a topic, I'll give you right where you need to raise awareness again and again and again and again. And that is exactly what I consider to be an important point, both of which is the building culture report by being developed and distributed, but also of meeting the building culture advisory board, in which certain topics are discussed and then spread accordingly. All relevant locations, municipalities and countries are represented in the Building Cultural Advisory Council. It's something like an engine for construction culture, an engine that's supposed to create constant consciousness. Building is a very, we say, conflict of interest. Of course, there is one person who wants as little cost as possible; the users who want to pay as little as possible for it; the tenants who want to pay as little as possible. On the other hand, there are architectural and ecological requirements. We have already discussed in the Committee on Lifecycle Costs, with all the difficulties that the main author of the study has also mentioned, because the question of how interest rates develop has, of course, an extreme impact on the cost of a building's life cycle. This is also an intensively discussed question in the industry, which is not quite easy to answer. There are many suggestions that have been made. Only one must also take the suggestions as what they are, namely as a fact, which should sharpen the consciousness and recall something. But it must not be assumed that all the suggestions in it are happening in a tabula-rasa situation, where there is no such thing, but many recommendations – if you look at the first: “Increasing ecological effectiveness”, “optimising large-scale buildings”, “retaining architectural quality” and so on – are things that happen and where you always have to be careful that they are as good, as intensive as possible, and are not neglected. However, there are also a few proposals, such as the Foundation, which you have made, to which I also said in the Committee that I would like to follow the invitation of the Building Cultural Advisory Council and come to the next or next meeting and to discuss exactly the open points in it with the Advisory Board, because I consider it reasonable that, if you set up a Advisory Council, your Council should also refer to them. I think the task is an important one and the report can fulfil it by focusing on a number of points. In the next report, in five years, one will certainly focus on other topics and continue to follow them. In that respect, I believe that this is an important point. I would also like to thank all those who have contributed, both the authors of the report and the members of the Advisory Council, for their work in the past. One last point that has to do with building, which was discussed in the morning: Mr Kickl has here, so to speak, in the protection of immunity, or has claimed that I have something to do with the property in St. Marx. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl: query]] I say it very directly: I have nothing to do with this property now and in the past. On the second point, on the location question. I am saying this quite specific, I have already said it to the public: I do not consider it my task as the Secretary of the Media to interfere in internal business. The issue of location is a question to be decided by the management of the ORF and the Board of Trustees of the ORF. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e12545	The next speaker was Mrs Ablinger. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e12566	Mr. State Secretary! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to focus once again on some of the things you mentioned in the report on construction culture. I also think it has paid off this time to focus on these three different areas and to develop recommendations from them. A recommendation that I think is very important is that instead of focusing construction costs on life-cycle costs and looking at the construction costs, operating costs, maintenance costs and re-use costs. I read, in 2010, there was an investigation into how such a thing could work. Here in the report, I think, two models have been looked at, namely an old home in Tyrol and a company in Kremsmünster, if I have it right. There you can look very well, what sense this makes to change to life cycle costs. ....................................................................................................................... I believe that this is a very essential recommendation. It is true that there are still different discussions, but one can see that the building culture report can be quite instigated. The second area I would like to mention is the area of school construction and what is recommended, namely “participation as a compulsory programme”. If the schools are now in a situation where they get new tasks when pedagogy, i.e. what is happening in these buildings, changes, then architecture must respond to them. Because spaces create communication, and depending on how rooms are designed, they invite or make it more difficult to cooperate with each other. Especially when you say that we have inclusion in the future, we have a different space requirement, then architecture is facing a great challenge; and what is being addressed in it is to involve participation models, that is, already in the run-up all those involved, I think is very important. “The press” has already written in a report on the building culture report: “Building culture is therefore largely a culture of conversation and conflict, i.e. the ability to recognise foreign interests and to coordinate with one’s own in regulated processes.” This is a very essential point, namely that building culture is always participation and communication. That is why I consider this declaration of the building culture foundation to be a good inspiration. I am pleased that this foundation is taking the opportunity to set up communication as a participation programme on development standards along this call. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e12621	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Fuhrmann speaking. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e12643	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! My colleague quoted and meant from the newspaper “The Press”, and this is to support three times, construction culture is also communication. I quote from the same article a different sentence, namely: “The houses and cities we are responsible for today are an important basis of living for the next generations, but they do not have their own voice today.” In other words, building culture is not only communication, but also sustainable development, and therefore, I think, a generation question for which we bear the responsibility today. I would also like to confirm what the Secretary of State said when it comes to the role of the Advisory Council. I do not share the view of Mr Zinggl that this advisory board is toothless. I am of the opinion that the Advisory Board is filled with very well-known experts and that the building culture report, which is presented every five years and is made significant by this Advisory Board, is a sign of the potential, the creativity and the far-sightedness of these experts, which is reflected in what they propose in a summary form of policy. Mr Zinggl would be right if the policy did not make these demands, these recommendations. But if the Secretary of State says today that he will be at the next meeting of the Advisory Council, I will see that as a sign and also as a promise that the Federal Government is seriously dealing with this report and the recommendations. And that's why it's going to be all right. It is our responsibility whether we take the recommendations to heart, whether we are trying to implement them – knowing that some demands are connected with a lot of money, that some may not be immediately feasible – but it pays off to discuss them at least. The architectural days that took place in June in all the federal states show once again how important it is to provide culture in Austria and that it is no longer just a question of expertise, a question of architects, but also a question of creating an awareness of building culture. An important area, I think, that has already been addressed by my colleague, is education – not only because of day-to-day school forms and the demands that teachers and students have through them, but also because it is about giving the individual a sense of building culture. An expert in the committee said so well: It is not about training all young people into architects today. But when it comes to understanding our environment, our environment, you also have to have a little idea of space culture and of building culture. I think, in cooperation with the Ministry of Economic Affairs, with the Ministry of Education and with the Secretary of State, we need to be able to implement central demands here and, at least, to deal seriously with them. I hope that the discussion has not ended with the discussion in the Committee and here today, but we will continue to do so.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e12698	The next speaker was Mr Doppler. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e12719	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Baukulturreport 2011 – a very nice reference work, good and beautiful, you can't actually be against it. Only this report does not show who the report is addressing. Is this a recommendation from the Federal Government itself, to the countries or to the communities? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Shopf.]] I have looked very closely at this building culture report – it is not clear to whom it is addressed. In the Building Committee, State Secretary Ostermayer himself warned of excessive expectations, because construction culture is a cross-sectional matter and because political responsibilities are widely divided. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, a very good thing was probably the rehabilitation check for thermal renovation. It would be desirable for the population, for our country and for the domestic economy to have comparable positive actions followed in the future. The money is all better used than in the EU's speculators and maritime banks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e12756	Next speaker: Mrs Dr. Moser. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e12779	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr State Secretary! After all these speeches, what actually prevents us from finally bringing the recommendations of this building culture report, this advisory board, which is behind it as a community of authors, into the form of five-party requests for political implementation? Because that's what it's all about! I mean, just in the five-year rhythm. To repeat the same, to make confessions, to share analyses, that is too little for a Parliament, which is not only talking but also intended to make some progress in legal or legal terms. I am very pleased, Mr State Secretary, that I am as optimistic as you are, because it goes a little further. Only: Flying Once you cross Austria, cross the country border towards Bavaria, and you will see suddenly where the spatial order is in order – namely in Bavaria: Condensation of the village cores, clearly declared settlement rooms – and where it is really in the argen. I think you were still active in Vienna politics at the time. – We already had here, I think, the year 1997, a study by Professor Raschauer on the harmonisation of construction regulations and as a prelude to this also on federal competences in the spatial order for discussion. I still remember debates in the Building Committee and in the Economic Committee that we are finally dealing with this, not only for ecological reasons but also for economic reasons. This is certainly an agenda related to constitutional changes. But not only because of the cultural area or because of the cultural sector, but also because of purely economic questions, infrastructure questions, transport policy issues urgently come back to the federal competence of spatial planning. We would not have many conflict potentials between precincts and construction projects if the federal government would generally clarify certain dedications. This is urgently necessary, and you could probably bring about a certain shoulder clasp. However, there is, of course, also a need for a constitution here. That's the one aspect. And the second aspect: Please, the topic of thermal renovation and so on was not only in the discussion now, it is also the subject of the report. In addition to the new construction, this is really about promoting something similar to sensitivity in aesthetics in the process of renovation. As a matter of urgency, we need the next five-party application for training of the building authority – the mayor, the mayor and the corresponding building committee – in local communities. I know that in Vorarlberg you are already relatively far from what this aesthetic sense of what the corresponding projects are about. I am not apologising for the fact that we have already done exemplary things in Vienna. But there are still negative examples of the same, where there are really zero-eight-fifteen things. I do not spare you to call a utility building in Vienna. He was also the subject of political reporting. Look The Vienna-Mitte project or Vienna Landstraße is just once the same. It is newly built by a private, but under conditions that the city of Vienna lays down. Here we have the classic example of optimal use of surface – because area is expensive, especially in this area – and on the other hand urban characteristics on site. It looks devastating. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Bartenstein.]] I recently passed by again and looked at what was there in the middle of Vienna. I therefore mention it because this issue is still going to concern us in other ways. There all the financial offices from the districts of Vienna are to be collected and united under one roof. Indeed, if the public hand is renting in somewhere, somewhere in the sense of building questions et cetera, it should also be the basis for the fact that architectural quality is possible – architectural quality which we can still use in decades, I don't want to say exactly centuries, tourist use. What are we talking about now in Vienna? – We lament what was created culturally in the past, in the interwar period, around 1900 et cetera. [[Abg. Jakob Auer: Sparsam!]] I do not agree that in some rural communities an exemplary renovation is made and also very modern kindergartens are built, I only mention the example of Vienna Mitte. [[Abg. Jakob Auer: If it costs a little more, you cry again that it costs too much!]] I'm just putting this in the room. We can not only build on pure Groscherl methods, but also have to think about them in the long term. This is the perspective of this report: the life cycle as a criterion of evaluation; not what it costs on day X when the invoice is to be paid, but: What does that cost? And that something architectural and aesthetically valuable is paying off as a whole, because I don't have to tear it off so quickly, you also have to think about it. It's just that the life cycle is longer. There would be the possibility that we would really set up this proposal in the direction of consultation – that was the issue of funds, Stiftung et cetera, so that the consultation would be carried forward – that we should also put this into a five-party request. There will certainly be another example. I just want to finish now. This building culture report was the subject of the discussion in the Building Committee. We urgently needed building committee dates – Mrs Becher almost sinks in her chair – for other serious problems of the Parliament – I just mention one word: Rental law – also to discuss once. I believe that the Building Committee suffers very much under large-scale coalition conditions, where there is no decision to make. Let us, at least, decide that what is in place, namely the report with its recommendations, will be implemented, including by means of requests in this Parliament. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e12844	The next speaker was Mrs Kaufmann-Bruckberger. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e12865	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! High house! First of all, to Mrs Moser: It would be very nice if you would take the time to read through the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Markowitz and then support it. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: I don't need to read that, I support it right now!]] [[General hustle and bustle.]] - Even better, even better! Summary: The construction culture report is of course very interesting to read, even if the matter is a bit dry. These are three important chapters, which are in turn divided into sub-chapter chapters. It focuses on the capacity for the future, the proximity to citizens and also on competence, e.g. environmental or economic sustainability, modern or adapted school construction, and of course the current challenges in federal, state and local authorities are also very well described. The recommendations listed in the report look very good at first glance, but some regulations or recommendations should be considered or questioned from the point of view of saving. In the future, it must in any case be ensured that the optimal construction culture is not put before the interests of the citizens. You would otherwise have to ask yourself the question of where the espionage begins and where the decree ends. And one, and that's the most important thing. Building must be manageable. Mr State Secretary, you write in the foreword of the building culture report: “In a federal state such as Austria, where decisions on planning and construction are made by a variety of decision-makers, construction culture requires active cooperation of all the responsibilities of the federal government, countries, municipalities, economic and social partners and civil society.” This is, of course, fully acceptable, but I believe that the fragmentation of skills is the problem of building and culture. The construction law, the construction regulations, the spatial planning, also the land ordination lies in the competence of the countries, the construction authority and the builder are the municipalities. I would particularly like to address the issue of land use, which has already been the subject of today's debate, namely its importance. I'm just saying: Century floodwater in 2002, Danube and March, we remember. These two rivers are very often flooded, almost annually. I do not want to say now that the conversions in Bauland have taken place there under the cover of the Friendly Economy, but of course it already gives rise to this appearance. Mr State Secretary, if you take this report seriously, I am pleased that we now have a representative in the Federal Government, who will stop double- and triple-tracking and, above all, move forward with administrative reform, because this is also a central issue of this report.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e12908	The next speaker is Mrs Hakel. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e12929	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, I am right for Mrs Moser to say that, over the last 50, 60 years, there has been little construction in the municipalities, in the rural regions. But why did this happen? You have to look and question why this has happened. – Because a mayor in a rural region has quite different problems. He asks himself: How do I manage to keep the supermarket in my community and not to move to the nearest community? Or: How do I get a company to the community because this is also an important financial source? Or: How did I prevent a farm from moving into the neighboring community? Of course, the last thing he thought about is making construction culture or urban planning or community planning, but it was important to see how he could maintain the infrastructure. It has not been discussed either. A Community politician does not, of course, deal with this issue or very little, because he has other problems, whose solution is more necessary, namely to maintain the infrastructure. I would like to invite you to come to the district once, because the rural region is exactly the same, because the communities are so far apart that you really have to see that the supermarket or the company remains in its own place. If you look at the houses in the bacon belt around the big cities, then you see, there you are at once commuting and requires the extension of the motorway so that you get to the big city faster. All of this is part of the building culture, since all parts have to take on their responsibility, because the cities and houses and their facilities that we are planning today are the future and the livelihood of the next generation – that generation that has no voice yet. Of course, I'm right if you say we have to look at this. No question. It is also about raising awareness of the population, explaining to her that it has a say in it. This has also been addressed in the building culture report, which we have heard several times today. This is about future-oriented building, about community-level procedures and, of course, also about education and mediation, with the aim of building educational institutions on the one hand and the provision of architecture for young people to be sensitized, a sense of it, and so that this subject is dealt with in schools. These three topics are a prerequisite to be able to make building culture in the future and to give citizens the opportunity to participate. One thing I would like to mention, because I also experience it again and again in the congregations in my district: The relief we have decided last year for community cooperation is certainly an important incentive for the implementation of architectural and spatial planning policies at this level too. I experience this more and more often with me in the district.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e12977	As the next speaker, Mrs Deputies has come to the fore. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e12999	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen! The 2011 Baukulturreport is a cross-sectional matter, and as such it also deals with the topic of age-appropriate building. This is an issue that will become more and more important. Why? – This is also the case in the Baukulturreport. In 2060, when two people in employment are no longer in employment, we know that the number of old people and especially the highly regarded people will increase considerably. This will present us on the one hand with challenges: How do old, highly regarded people, who are not so mobile to a large extent, nevertheless allow for participation in public life? And above all: How can they be given an independent, self-determined life? Solution approaches are also mentioned: compact urban and urban cores, short ways. This will also be an important aspect for maintaining the financing of mobile care. And good public transport is necessary, which enables people to participate. However, age-appropriate building is concerned not only with older people but also with children and young people, also with families. We know about the health condition of children and adolescents notice, keyword overweight and obesity, keyword disorders of the attitude and exercise apparatus, keyword diabetes. This also means: Children need spaces to move. They need an offer to comply with their urge to move and those through the movement- to prevent the lack of disease. This is a challenge, if you look at these two sides of old-age building, in the planning of space, in the plan of land use and in urban planning. In order to find solutions, it takes competence. This is a very large area in the building culture report. This is not only a matter of modern learning behaviour and school new buildings or renovations aimed at it, but also of special attention to the placement of content in teaching. Over the course of their life, most people often spend more than half of their money on the large area of housing, whether that is rent, operating costs, purchase et cetera. The construction culture report makes 45 recommendations, which are quite superior recommendations that we should rely on in legislation in the countries and at the federal level.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e13044	Next speaker: Member of the jury. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e13065	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! To the Baukulturreport: It has been pretty much all right what has been said. I do not entirely agree with Mr Markowitz, who said that the spatial planning must be carried across Austria. We simply have different structures, whether they are alpine areas, rural areas or agglomerations. The municipalities, the municipalities are the largest player in this matter. Parliamentary Singer has already said it: first, the political institution of spatial planning, second, the municipality as an authority in the approval procedure and third, the municipality as the builder of municipal projects. I am particularly interested in the fact that we have a devastating balance of land in Austria. We build 24 hectares of green space every day, in non-usable space, for buildings. This incredibly high surface consumption will eventually fall on our minds if we don't switch. The building culture report 2006 recommends that the municipalities, the countries and also the federal government grow only 2.4 hectares per day. We should get there, that's 10 percent of the area we're growing today. Further, it is also reluctance to look at the structures, that only more is built on peripheral areas; the town and city centres are starved. If you look at the average density of the plant and the retail space in Germany, that's 17 percent. In Austria it is three times as much, 51 percent. Of course, it is now true that this development has already happened. What do you do to reverse this development? – Although there are many suggestions in this building culture report, you also have to implement them. It is necessary to reverse this trend so that the local cores, the urban cores, which are a great habitat, are not depopulated. Finally, I would like to break a lance for rural areas to ensure that legal initiatives are created to ensure that rural areas not only remain and will remain recreation areas, but above all that they will remain in the future as a living and working space.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e13106	The next speaker was Mr Walser. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e13129	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! Building culture and political culture have a lot in common: Both are in the arse in this house. Mr Graf, in the context of political culture: It would be quite easy for someone who's spanking old Grandmas, who leads to wrong title: [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: On the subject!]] Step back and you would do a great deal of service to the reputation of political Austria! Mr State Secretary, in terms of building culture, it is a little more difficult. However, there are also proposals to this end. [[Abg. Linder: Not even your own group claps!]] Many proposals are being made in the report on construction culture. We believe that they will finally be implemented. I am of course particularly interested in those recommendations that have been made in connection with the school buildings. The education discussion we are currently holding in Austria, and the architectural discussion that is being held here, have a lot in common. I was actually amazed at the high level of this discussion in the building culture report and how it has been made clear that efficient learning spaces that we urgently need in Austria are only possible with the involvement of those concerned. We need – and this is stated here as a recommendation – about 0.5 percent of the building amount as a sum, as money for corresponding participation processes in the construction of school buildings. The architecture – which is often mentioned – is the third pedagogy, which we must take into account. There are examples for this, which is also described in this report. Fortunately, there are similar models in Austria. For example, the school campus Sonnwendviertel in Vienna and the educational campus Moosburg in Carinthia are listed. These are examples that we should follow that should be set as an example. There is an OECD study of 2003, which holds three key qualifications for our education system. We need people, we need students who leave our education system, who act independently, who are able to work in heterogeneous groups and use the tools – naturally, very modern tools – interactively. I think if we take this seriously, then our school architecture must take this into account. That means we need inclusion, we need more personal responsibility from students. We need schools that can be run all day. We need the possibility, also in the school building, for cross-border cooperation – much more so than that has been the case so far. We need schools that enable local networking. All these are important prerequisites. All of this is very difficult in the current school buildings. I was particularly impressed by something in the Committee's discussion. I think it was Dipl.-Ing. Steger, who meant we need an assignment to our BIG. Mr State Secretary, an order to go from the government! We want to become innovation world champions in Austria, which leads to new school buildings. That's a big goal. We're far away. But if we make the right course now, then it is achievable. If we coordinate this with the current school discussion, we are able to obtain this title of the Innovation World Master in a relatively short time. I remember that a number of schools are currently having to be renovated. The renovation of schools is, of course, an opportunity to meet these new objectives. You would have our support. However, we finally have to deal with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e13181	The next speaker was Mr Mayer. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e13202	Mr President. Estimated Secretary of State! Ladies and gentlemen! I am allowed to join almost seamlessly where Mr Walser has stopped. I would also like to focus on education, because it is time and again that municipal representation groups, mayors, political leaders ask questions at local level and ask people who have to deal with education policy: What would you do? What could you do? It was actually in the middle of the preparatory phase to remember: Which guide can be given? What about communities to do for municipalities in the case of a reconstruction project or a new school construction project? What should be done to gain experience and to bring it together? At the invitation of the mayor of Schwechater, we looked at the new project of the special school in Schwechat. This is really a demonstration project, which is also mentioned in the Baukulturreport, which already takes into account the topic of inclusion. That is, if we change to the new, modern school, where we all want to train together, where we all want to train together, where we also want to involve people with special needs, the question arises: How can you take these areas into account if you are modern and redesigned? How can we take into account the full day care required by all those who are to be restricted? These things are all very important. See, these issues have been taken up! I'm glad. That is why I would like to thank you very much, Mr State Secretary, to you and your team, who have prepared this building culture report, for this instruction, for this guideline that can be pushed into the hands of the communities. The short summary also serves to address the new projects, the € 320 million that we will provide in addition to the countries over the next two years in order to do something for day-to-day care. This is an impulse for the expansion of schools, for the reconstruction of schools in terms of the fact that at the same time one sees that one can do it in such a way that school can take place in the modern form, as we imagine that there children can find a care centre all day long, stay there all day, be encouraged all day long, and it makes them fun to be in these buildings. I think it would be worthwhile if we could all use our possibilities to carry on this building culture report, send it out and take it as an opportunity to help wherever questions arise, so that schools can really be built as we all wish. We have an instruction on this. Thank you very much for that.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e13243	Next speaker: Mrs Hellerer. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e13264	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! High house! With the statement, our villages have not become more beautiful, the expert Dr. Steger has stopped in the Building Committee. He has also illustrated graphically how the settlement changes take place at the outskirts of the village and how these picture themselves. Dipl.-Ing. Steger has also noted very critically that the so-called filling areas are being relocated into building grounds and thus construction sins already committed. One thing is definitely certain, namely that land consumption in Austria is very, very high, that more land and land, buildings, even transport buildings and roads disappear. If the Committee has said that 34 football fields are sealed daily, that is a total of 24 hectares of surface space, then it is quite high for Austria. However, it must be borne in mind that the Federal Environment Agency has indicated 15 hectares, and 15 hectares would be added to one year to mean that an area of 5,500 hectares of land and land is sealed annually. This is the entire agricultural area of Vienna, which is being built. This has to be thought of, because soil and soil are unmovable; and especially agriculture needs this land and land to provide the population in the future and, above all, to maintain the protection function of the soil with regard to the water budget. Therefore, the farmers' representatives have already made the suggestion in March to meet a country-based agreement, in accordance with Article 15a, so that those spatial planning politicians who are competent in the countries and the federal government also deal more closely with this land loss and, above all, in the direction of efficient construction. Of course, this report on construction culture also points out that there should be a wide range of recommendations for the future. There are 45 recommendations, the construction culture report is divided into different priorities. One of them is close to the citizen, where the competences of the Federal and the Länder are addressed precisely, and also the local authorities, which are involved as builders and construction authorities. I think that, in the sense of the young generations, whom we do not want to grow the future, we must continue to work hard to ensure that measures are put in place in such a way that they comply with the recommendations. One of them would be a treaty between the federal government and countries. A second recommendation, which is also cited, would be the creation of a foundation so that the building culture in Austria can be better promoted in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e13306	The next speaker was Mr Muchich. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e13328	My esteemed State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I should like to make one clear following the remarks made by some previous speakers. I think building is nothing bad if you build well. This report clearly shows what has gone wrong in the past and how it should perhaps be done in the future. He also points out how we should use our resources, which are becoming increasingly scarce, both for finances, for areas, for infrastructure, but also for housing needs effectively and thus wisely. Of course, there is also a certain courage in increasing settlement density, for example, in core areas, i.e. in urban centres, when it comes to allowing post-condensation in cities, and also taking in more money for sustainable renovation, both from an ecological and economic point of view. In short, this report simply points out that we can achieve less with less, and we will certainly be able to meet the needs and ensure that people are provided, secure employment and, ultimately, create new jobs. I would just like to quote one example: If this report shows that infrastructure costs for housing units are up to €40 000 in a scatter settlement and only €7300 per unit of housing in compact towns, then it is, I believe, a clear task to strengthen the cities and to push back the dispersal policy. We need cities and places with short paths. Then we will also be able to reach with less. In this sense I thank the Federal Chancellery for this report, I also thank the authors. He is certainly the reading for all those responsible, whether federal government, countries, communities to be taken to heart to make a successful construction policy in this country in the future. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e13364	The next speaker was Mr Höfinger. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e13385	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! A very interesting one, because it is a comprehensive report of construction culture, which we have here and which deals with the development of the past up to the future. Let me also introduce a few thoughts as mayor. Every day we face a very sensitive and also responsible task when we are dedicated to building and the settlement industry. We know that these two issues, construction and settlement development, have changed enormously in recent years. Think only of the historical development in Austria – of the settlement economy in the alpine areas, the urban areas and the Pannonian level of the Burgenland – and of how different these developments were, because they also had different conditions. These were economic, these were climatic conditions that were different. These were the different terrain conditions, these were the traffic routes and much more, which contributed to the fact that the spaces in the west of Austria developed quite differently than in the east. Many of these parameters have also changed in recent years, decades. Just think about how mobile we all have become, we think about how data is being passed on today, how the new media landscapes have developed, what has brought fundamental changes to the location in the living area as well as to a company location, or also to the question of the energy supply of individual homes. So there is a huge change in this area that we need to react to. The second, however, is that many parameters remain the same. It is of enormous importance today to think also of the settlement water economy, to remember that there can be natural forces, which we cannot simply push aside. I can only mention one example from Lower Austria, where there is now a very consistent way to enable a suitable and realizable form of settlement development, especially in the urban water industry. There are precise flood protection plans, according to which we, too, need to work as communities today, or the designation of a core zone where it is important to be able to develop farms in the future – not only on the green meadow, not only on the outskirts, so that the cores are not eroded, but also in a balanced relationship. If we take all these factors into account, if we also accept the content and requirements of the building culture report, then, I think, we will be able to make very constructive progress, even in the various conditions of the individual regions, the individual federal states, our settlement economy. In any case, the building culture report provides a good basis for this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e13428	The next speaker was Mr Schopf. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e13449	Mr State Secretary! My dear! Ladies and gentlemen! Also a few sentences on this building culture report 2011. I think it is an important document, especially for those who are busy daily with this problem at various levels, especially in the municipalities, in the most diverse municipalities. I would therefore also like to ask you, Mr State Secretary, if we do not have the opportunity to make this report, which is very, very good, available to all communities, because I think it is an important document for the communities in particular. We discussed this in committee for a very long time, Mr State Secretary. You yourself said it was a cross-sectional matter. I think that building culture can also be an important area of climate protection. In the end, it is not only about building, it is about different transport concepts, it is also about the possibility in which we can participate in the various projects, it is about renewable energy, but also about cooperation in our communities, cooperation in the most diverse regions. Ladies and gentlemen, there are also important recommendations in this report. The field of redeployment has already been dealt with in detail, but I think that we have to be particularly concerned with the public sector projects – and there are a lot of projects, I am thinking only of new school construction and many others – but we have to take very seriously into account the existing infrastructure that exists in the cities, in the municipalities. Finally, ladies and gentlemen: I think it is a very important document, and we are all well advised to study this report and also in our decisions when we are concerned with including these results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e13482	Mr Praßl, the next speaker, will be Mr Praßl. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e13504	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! For me, Baukulturreport 2011 was a topic that I looked through very carefully and where I took certain things out. Every construction project has many participants. As an example, I have taken my three districts, with 88 congregations, and have looked at exactly what is happening there, which results in new things. All mayors are very active in shaping this. Only together created things are also carried together. This consideration must be at the beginning of the planning phase. Buildings are created that serve the public for more than several decades. Our great goal must be it is to create buildings with a future capacity to create them because many mayors need to build and design new houses for the future, for the elderly, for the elderly. The focus in the investment decision is particularly on the ecological dimension, one is thinking only of the energetic challenge of the future. Ladies and gentlemen, I can only say one thing here: I have to thank all the mayors – not from my districts, but from all over Austria – for making this new design, which is to build fresh for the older generation. We need that. In this sense, I would like to thank all those involved.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e13540	Mr Windholz spoke as the last speaker on this item on the agenda. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e13561	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! At the beginning I can welcome the friends of the BZÖ Styria, which are located on the gallery, to the most cordial here. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] High house! Building culture reports are devoted to very, very important, elementary questions. As the mayor of a market community, I am happy to think back to my first two years of office. There was, among other things, the complete transformation of our main square, which, as I always care for, became the most beautiful main square east of Vienna. I know how important an exact planning is, but I also know how important there is a steering instrument, saying promotion. You can always express your opinion, it was with less. That's what it looks like. And just as almost everyone here has already experienced in house building, mistakes in planning, when implementation comes to you will be expensive. Building culture reports can also be addressed in this sense as an important instrument. Currently I have a construction in the folk school, where it is about building a really good gym and rooms for afternoon care. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, this is a central question on the issue of better reconciliation between work and family life, also one, as I believe, of essential social policy issues. I know what's going on in a single community. The more advice there is – I can only strongly recommend this – the better you can handle such things. The question of how a place should develop, which infrastructure exists, is one where I have just run a local development study. I strongly recommend to all municipalities to ask themselves the question of where our place can develop at all, where in the area of residential construction, in the area of plant housing, so that the question of land ordinations, construction classes and so on can be built. You should not think in the categories of the financial year, the budget in the coming year, or in the direction of the next elections, but you must address time horizons of 10, 15, 20 years and more. If the Secretary of State here always brings this settlement building together with subsidies, these housing companies, then one has to critically question it. For example, we have the Instrumentarium Design Advisory Board. In principle, this is welcome to ensure quality. But I personally have already gained the experience that one tends to exaggerate. The more bureaucracy, the more regulations, the worse the implementation is. There is a trend that clearly shows us that it is increasingly heading towards the freely funded housing. That is to say, you do not have to do so because it is vital to build up bureaucratic obstacles. Therefore, once again on our motion for a resolution: It should all critically question whether this is still up-to-date, whether it is not too much bureaucracy and effort that each federal state keeps its own building order. I think it would be wise and right for you to regulate this all over the country. Even on the question of spatial planning, our colleague Elisabeth Kaufmann-Bruckberger has already referred to it, one may critically question – Lower Austria, floodwater – where everywhere has been diverted, I would think, one time or another for unmistakable reasons. Clearly, a change means a price increase, but that has been bitterly revenged, and so many floods would not have led to these damage, one would have been wise at that time and would not have changed the field dedication for party-politically motivated reasons.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e13622	No one is reporting on this. I therefore conclude the debate. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request from the Committee on Construction to take note of this report III-313 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of taking note of it to give a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We come to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Markowitz, ladies and gentlemen, on the reform of the construction legislation in the framework of the BZÖ initiative “Reconstructing Austria – comprehensive state and Parliament reform”. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. [[14:38:05]] 3rd. Point Report of the National Defence Committee on the Government Template (1742, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law amending the Wehrgesetz 2001 and the Waffengesetz 1996 (1794 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e13680	We're now on the 3rd. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mr Fichtenbauer. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European 8 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e13707	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! It is rare that in the case of a bill which should raise the fundamental claim to be fair to rationality and state wisdom, the wrath of the righteous flows through the veins, and one thinks: Does that have to be? I will give you the answer in advance: It would not have to be so, because the object and heart of this misguided proposal – which, although it is good in itself, is often the case, the good soup has in the end a bad underground, which makes you sick – is so that the entire legislative project is a continuity of legal atrociities, a term that the President of the Federal Republic of Germany has used sharply, in relation to the occupation regime. Atrocis: Annoyances and evil events that hit the citizens. So who is to be met? – Answer: The fair owner of disabled war material. What is disabled war material? – The term is actually eo ipso eligible: This is something that can no longer be used as such. Welding the run, ruining essential functional parts, and the result is a piece of iron that optically raises the appearance of what it has once been, but can no longer be functional. Countless honest citizens of the Republic possess such objects: Memories, other things. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Riepl.]] – You do not need to show yourself excited, Mr. Cot! If you had read the text, you'd be my mind. [[Cheerfulness and applause at the FPÖ.]] On the other hand, it is a pitiful measure of parliamentary use that can flow through the bottom of the funnel, without a sieve. So it's a story that since 2003 by the “legislatives” – under quotations – of the Federal Ministry of State Defense – it doesn't concern you, Mr. Minister, because in 2003 you weren't yet – the administrative practice – I was once a lawyer. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hornek.]] But that's been a long time. I was a lawyer between 1971 and 1975. In this field, no one can teach me a lesson. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Riepl.]] There is also nothing to be used for calls that let the caller swallow his own tongue. [[Cheerfulness and applause at the FPÖ.]] Since 2003, there has been a changed administrative practice that has pushed the realm of the reasonable into the absurd, namely, by developing a concept of what unfit for war material remains permanent war material. An example: A machine gun race – war material! – is sawn. Then I have two war materials. Then I saw him again, and then I have four pieces of war material up to 12 cm. - Well, wonderful! Oh, that's great! But the Federal Ministry of State Defense has recognized that this is a mistake and has welcomed in its statement – the number of businesses I can read to you – of 17.3.2011, concerning the draft federal law to amend the War Material Act, that demilitarized war material, that is, in the future, is to lose its legal status as a war material. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: From when?]] What's happening today? - The opposite! In fact, it is intended to be mandatory once again to mark disabled war material. So to the army itself, who was active in deactivation it, the Federal Minister of State no longer believes and says: But now you have to go to a authorized tradesman, he has to pick up a stamp and say it's really disabled! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Prehauser.]] So that's about like if the federal railway to the operating property of an ÖBB train call the taxi inn and say: Now confirm to me that the ÖBB train is allowed to drive, because I don't believe the ÖBB itself! I therefore take care to ensure that time does not go unnecessarily, a referral request, which calls for this to be dealt with again with with with the sufficient criteria of reason. Recital request in accordance with § 53 para. 6 Z 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Council of Deputies Dr. Fichtenbauer submits the request to the Government template 1794 of the Supplements: The Federal Act, which amends the Wehrgesetz 2001 and the Waffengesetz 1996, refers back to the National Defence Committee. In order to increase the entertainment value of the High House, it is inevitable to bring to your attention the history of the "Bunker Museum Wurzenpass", which plays a certain role on the edge, like the moon next to the stars, without being the object of our earth. The "Bunkermuseum Wurzenpass" was established in 2002 with the help of the military. Colonel Scherer is doing the management there. He is considered to be a complicated person with whom one can exchange unkind things orally or in writing. Be it, it will already have its accuracy. Colonel Scherer did the following: He has made a request that a tank tower be provided to him for the purpose of equipping this museum for a combat tank Charioteer with 8.34 cm tank cannon. The notice was issued positively. The device was delivered. No one has noticed that instead of a tank tower Charioteer calibre 8,34 cm one was delivered with calibre 10,5 cm. Colonel Scherer didn't measure it. 8.3 cm is visually not much less than 10.5 cm, so, no problem! Colonel Scherer has also made a request that a plane defense gun be provided to him. This has been duly approved. And now you have to consider the following: In principle, the army does not think in pieces, but in equipment systems. And the master of arms, who has “cut” – that is to say – has also sent him the two spares, or three, I don’t know; at least something that Mr. Scherer didn’t need. He said: Wait, I get more runs than I need!, called the Federal Ministry and said: Please, take the runs back, I don't know what to do with it! Based on this return of the excess-delivered runs, all of which have been founded on decisions of the Federal Ministry of Defence – authorisation and feed – one said at a time: Yeah, he's an illegal war material owner! So the army approves, delivers him false and superfluous material and then says: Yes, you're a bastard, you're a criminal, and you show him at the prosecutor's office. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] The prosecutor could not believe that. But because you don't believe such a thing, you look at it for a few weeks, and then you set it up. But the army said: Now it's clear you're no longer reliable in the sense of the law! You took over something you shouldn't have taken over! You didn't ask, but I delivered it to you, and you took it! It will be with you for a while, and now you are unreliable! – That is why the Lord Scherer is now a bad person. He's no longer reliable. The whole lies with the administrative court, with the judicial system – and on the high seas one is in God's hand. Mr. Scherer is not reliable because he has been modestly promised that he will get something from the military, but instead something wrong has been delivered. – The Republic should be aware of this when it thinks of the legal dimensions under the management of the Federal Minister, who is probably not in charge of himself – I acknowledge that; the religious principle “credo quia absurdum” applies in Your point probably not to be, but you must not tolerate it – will be done. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I hope to have made it clear to you that the referral request has a very large and intensive authorisation. I'm not in favour of going on side-war shows at each other's belts. It is Parliament's task to serve the matter with reasonable and resolution-orientedness. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e13816	The next item is the speech by Mr Prehauser. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e13837	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr Fichtenbauer, I have read the legislative text very well, but not in everything with you. I come from the private sector, I am actually a learned merchant. The first thing one learns is to take over goods, accept a signature, establish a contractual relationship for the company, and pay the invoices for it. A commander of the army should be thought to have also managed this course and thus know what he is signing. Therefore, in the above-mentioned Causa, the argument, as it is now taking place, up to complaints and all possible, is really unworthy and not necessary. We know that there are also things in this new law – Mr Fichtenbauer has already said – which are to be signed, which are important. I am thinking, for example, of the exception for shooting events at military events. Each of us who worked in this area was probably already at something like this, but did not know in which right-free space he moved, who, in any damage cases, has the ultimate responsibility to bear. This is also corrected or directed in the right direction with this novelle. Mr Fichtenbauer! The Federal Minister has personally tried to make proposals, to preserve the museum, and therefore there is also an addition. I see that pragmatically: Much more than 90 percent of the exhibits in this museum belong to the Republic, so are not in personal property. That means, even through visits, proceeds are granted to the general public, at least to a certain extent. That is why, I believe, the proposal of the Ministry to the head of state of Carinthia, to take care of the country or to take care of it in the relevant community. The community and the country have to decide independently who has this museum to lead, who is the most capable of doing so. That would be justified because the people's property would continue to contribute to the people's property proceeds. So let's not abuse ourselves for personal beanie! Let's try to find a common way together! The possibility is there. The Ministry has put into circulation how it works. It is up to us politicians to make sure that our friends in the south understand us better. Then we could unravel this kid. – Thank you for the attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e13877	The next item is Mrs Windbüchler-Souschill. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e13898	Mr President. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Although Minister Darabos is not involved in decisions in all respects, he has the responsibility to assume responsibility for the ministry. A brief summary, an analysis of the last years of the Minister of Defence: There were sexist recruitment videos about YouTube and also about the homepage of the Ministry of Defense. There was confusion about the abolition of general military service. Drones for the Burgenland – a whole new demand! Money flows to NATO. A non-existent security strategy, which, however, is repeatedly discussed by the Minister, which repeatedly refers to the fact that it has not gone through Parliament, although it has not been legitimised in parliamentary terms, but it seems that the Council of Ministers alone is sufficient for it. Further: More complaints from the Parliamentary Federal Hero Commission, the need for advertising refunds due to right-wing radical tendencies in the Austrian federal army. This very difficult work of the Minister of Defence is also the subject of the debate today, because this law shows two further areas of problem, namely the reactivation of the war material and the use of war materials at events. In the run-up to the event, it was often discussed that these events should be exclusively shooting events. There is no word in the law, but there is the following: "At events of the Federal Army are the provisions of the Arms Act 1996 () concerning possession, leadership and leaving 1. war materials and prohibited weapons; and 2. firearms (), in each case, including the ammunition for those weapons, shall not apply.’; This means that stormguns, Eurofighters or also the tank fist with ammunition may not only be displayed and visited at events, but also be operated. It is not in the law that this should be the case exclusively at shooting events. If it were so, then you should write it exactly as precise into the law. Then: It cannot be a matter of the Parliament to empower the German army to also engulf guns with ammunition at general events. To let children play on tanks is already extremely critical – keyword: Every year there is the annual military performance show at Vienna Heroesplatz – but then also to provide firearms with ammunition there is already a lot more of what should definitely be prevented. And you, Mr Minister, clearly bear the responsibility there.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e13960	Mr Maij-Weggen. — (NL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e13984	Mr President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) It would, of course, be tempting now to address the many “building sites” that we have in part with the German army, and also to what the previous speakers said. I would, however, like to dedicate myself to the amendment of the Wehrgesetz and the Waffengesetz, because it is an important matter. Today, with this change in law, we create clarity for an area that has always been in a grey zone. Many of you know that in the past, firearms have been donated or sold to private persons after corresponding modification and non-use for decoration purposes. The possession of such weapons was permitted only with the exception of the Federal Ministry of Defence, but there was no legal basis for it to date. Whoever, for example, is in possession of a “StG 58” acquired by the Federal Army for nostalgic reasons is, according to the case law, in the possession of war material, and therefore also to act accordingly. The aim of this novel is finally to produce legal certainty for the owners of such firearms. All the critics who vote against these novels with vehemence, because they fear a criminalization, such as Mr Fichtenbauer, I can say from this point of view that no one is criminalised by this law, but on the contrary: We create legal certainty for those concerned! So anyone who owns a gun within the meaning of the war material regulation can be identified by an authorised trader of arms trade in the future. The adoption of the regulation is the responsibility of the Federal Minister for Defence and Sport in agreement with the Federal Minister for the Interior. As usual with other lawmakers, there will also be a transitional period of twelve months for the Waffengesetz. This is also very, very important. Whoever does not have his weapon marked within the specified time limit commits a breach of administration. Even if the arms dealer finds that the weapon has not been sufficiently disused under the guidelines of the War Material Regulation, there is the possibility of being modified accordingly. High house! All those who do not wish to make this modification can either apply for a derogation from the Federal Ministry of Defence and Sport or hand over the weapon to the competent authority. The former owner must be adequately compensated by the Federal Minister for Defence and Sport if this is required within six months of the transfer of ownership. Much has been written in the media in the past about the fact that the hunters are negatively affected by this novel and the possession of hunting weapons is to be made more difficult. This accusation is not true either! People who are already in possession of a gun of category D at the time of the entry into force of this federal law, i.e. a flint, do not comply with the registration requirement in accordance with § 33 Waffengesetz. So the hunt and the hunters, ladies and gentlemen, are not affected. And what is not true is the fact that the "Causa Bunkermuseum" can be solved, because these parts do not meet in any way, although we also believe that this "Bunker Museum", currently available to the population, should continue to be preserved. Mr. Federal Minister, you are called upon to ensure with your competent people to the Austrian federal army that this "Bunker Museum", as far as the war material there is concerned, is also poured into a legal framework, as we are now doing with this law novel for a certain part of war material. Therefore, Mr Fichtenbauer, I can also recommend that you accept this new law, because it creates legal certainty for people who currently have such war material in their possession.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e14045	I am now interrupting the negotiations on item 3 of the agenda so that the urgent question requested can be dealt with at 3 p.m. in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. [[15:00:06]] Request for urgent procedure Mr Heinz-Christian Strache, colleagues in the Federal Minister for Finance on ‘Euro crisis’ (1118/J)
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e14075	We arrive at urgent procedure for the written question 11818/J. As this has now been done to all the Members, there is a lack of reading by the author. The urgent question has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e14202	I give Mr Klubobmann Strache as the first questioner on the grounds of the question referred for a preliminary ruling pursuant to § 93 para. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). [[Abg. Grosz: The Minister of Finance is missing!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: The Minister of Finance is missing! Where is the Minister of Finance?]] [[Minister of Finance Dr. Fekter is just entering the meeting room.]] [[Abg. Grosz: Ah, the Minister of Finance is here! The only man in this government!]] – The Federal Minister for Finance is already here. Please, Mr. Klubobmann.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e14275	Mr President. Mrs Financier! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The Dringli-che question is, of course, addressed to the Federal Minister for Finance – it is nice that you have come – because this urgent request is necessary. [[President Mag. Prammer shall take over the chairmanship.]] Why is it necessary? – We have a huge financial and monetary crisis, and in all European gaskets you can read it every day, such as in today’s newspaper: “The euro-insanity costs every one of us 24,000 euros”, i.e. every person in employment. Of course, the amount could also rise towards €40 000 for each person employed. A European Stability Mechanism to be decided is in the room. We read in the “Wiener Zeitung”, what Chancellor Merkel says about Europe: “We’re at the crossroads.” And IMF-Chefin Lagarde gives the euro zone a maximum of three months until the crisis solution, otherwise it sees a definitive break-up of this euro zone. So dramatic headlines – it's not even more dramatic! – but this federal government still does not find it worth the effort to make a statement here. And if we do not ask a urgent question today, it will hide completely and continue its dishonest and non-transparent policy. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] ==References====External links== In May 2012, there is a guest comment from Gero Jenner, who – I quote – says: “Either they are sleeping in the state bankruptcy” – i.e. Greece, Italy, Spain, Portugal –“ – this will violently tear the euro zone – or the ECB will have to jump in with freshly printed money. It buys up government debt and thus paves the way to the Transfer Union and a gradually more and more effective money devalue. This does not go without consequences for the countries of the North.” – Quotes. All this is the subject and all that is something we have shown for years and have also shown since the beginning of the financial and monetary crisis. And I still have the reactions in my ear – now we go far back – when we liberals initiated the Schilling People's Desire in 1997. With regard to the analyses that we made at the time in this popular desire and our warnings about the introduction of euro-enforcement in different European economies, we can only say: All analyses have voted and have arrived today. As a result, the Austrians were refused and denied a referendum, although we demanded it at the time. And then came the crisis-like development. Countries have been included in the euro area, which have not even met the criteria that the European Union itself has given itself, such as Greece and others. But when at the beginning of 2009 the crisis became visible and we drew your attention to it again: Yes, please, at least take note of this now, admit your mistakes and pull the emergency brake!, you did not have the willingness to do so again, but meant: Well, I can't do that! We cannot now, as it were, derive consequences from it for those countries which we have taken up, although they have not fulfilled the criteria at all! All of this was foreseeable in the development of such processes if the European Union does not take itself seriously with regard to its own criteria and it breaks down. Then we had the development of the crisis, where we said from the outset: Pull the emergency brake! The separation of the different European economies in monetary union at least towards the release of weak economies into their old currencies or a separation towards North-Euro and South-Euro, so that the strong economies in the North-Euro and the weak in the South-Euro also have a chance to get out of the crisis, because the weak have a chance by devaluation to catch up in economic policy in the future. This opportunity is actually taking these countries because one is not willing to think about such other ways here. On Monday evening in the “ZiB 2” the Finance Minister Fekter showed a rare approach to honesty. It has not ruled out that Italy – after Spain now with €100 billion – will already be Greece with over €300 billion, all of which are sums that one can no longer understand – will be on the mat and will need international assistance, that is, to slip under the so-called Euro Rescue Screen. However, she immediately withdrew yesterday, after the outrage of the EU and the huge EU bureaucrat elite had been a corresponding one and had come down on it. This is also symptomatic for the whole handling of the euro crisis: You've never been honest so far. Time and again, only one piece of information is given up. If we've been showing up for years, we'll be presented as panic-makers and insulted as hetzers. We are confronted as politicians who have no economic responsibility or no idea – and today all international economists who discuss internationally what is missing in Austria are right in all these analyses. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And that's why the responsibilities don't finally produce themselves and say: Yes, we were wrong and we have to admit you were right. - I think it's time. Let's take Spain: Now one hundred billion € of rescue shield expenses will be spoken of, and that will not have been the summit with God, but similar to the beginning in Greece. Many international economists say that this will get worse in the next few weeks and months, and you also have to expect Italy, but, of course, other countries, as well as France. Thus, the approach of truth and honesty, which the Minister of Finance, Fekter, has trusted, and for which she is now also criticized, was once more reasonable. It is important to deal honestly with the issue! To date, we are refusing to tackle the evil at the root, and the fact is that we in Europe have a massive problem, namely primarily a banking problem – that is and was obvious from the very beginning. The countries of the European Union are, of course, paying credit to keep banks alive. And now the Spanish banks are knocking on what we should save – including the Spanish Bankia Group, whose boss, whose bank manager, has no problem with having led the bank into the Mies with speculation operations, but with 16 million euros of pension. [[Call the FPÖ: Unbelievable!]] – Where is the responsibility of these managers responsible for their speculation business? The head of the Felder State Debt Committee has said at the very moment in the ORF “Press hour” that he does not believe that Spanish banks actually need €100 billion, but on the other hand he also says that it is difficult to say, because there is a lot to hide in a bank account, and therefore it is difficult to know what really is going on. - Well, that's exactly what happens! That's exactly what happens! And Felder goes on to say: "We will see nothing more of the money that has already been paid to Greece." Yes, beautiful! This is the so-called business that we have already been sold under the former Minister of Finance Josef Pröll and, unfortunately, some of you, Mrs. Finanzminister Fekter, are the great business we are doing here by making money available for this rescue screen and then receiving great, great repayments with interest. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Petzner]] – The exact opposite is the case, and we have warned about it from the beginning! Since the beginning of the crisis, the Austrian taxpayer has been carrying over €62 billion of the liability you have taken over, on liabilities in which you have forced our citizens into which they can be beaten. And even in the future, until summer, when the plan is to be maintained, you will have to introduce a European Stability Mechanism, which will only bring us into a situation that is quite right in the face of the original European Treaties to a transfer union. When we rightly warned about such a development on the European Union Treaties at the time, and said that there must never be a transfer union, you said: Oh, such a fool, that's not to be feared at all. That is another typical panic of the liberals. – It is only necessary to remember what you have done in the past in the past with insanity and where exactly the opposite is the case today. And now we are just facing the development of a European Stability Mechanism with the abbreviation ESM. Yes, what does that really mean? – I am right to say that this is an e-Uropean S adomaso contract that is planned there! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And the roles which the Sadist shall be, and who shall be the Masochist, have been established for a long time: The sadist is said to be the European bureaucrats' elite and the masochists we will be forced to take on by such mechanisms in the future. What's going on with the ESM? – Mr Kogler, what is planned with the ESM? – It is indeed to be feared that the Greens will fall back again, because when it comes to ensuring two-thirds of the majority against Austrian interests in this House, you can in principle assume that you will receive support from your side, as well as on other issues – the Constitutional Treaty, Euratom Treaties in the Annex et cetera. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Listen to your future coalition partner, Mrs Finanzminister!]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That's exactly what we should light up: European Stability Mechanism, what does that mean, what is planned? – It is planned that a Board of Governors will be set up, which will eliminate the democratic, parliamentary decision – that is, democracy. It has been suggested that the national parliaments – in the case of the Austrian Parliament, but also the European Parliament – should no longer have the power of decision in future to use a Board of Governors to be immune at a lifetime, to have the duty of silence to determine their own salaries, but must never be published what they deserve, that is, no transparency, no control, no elimination of any democratic principles. This is planned in the European Union, where this ESM Board of Governors will then be able to decide in future whether the €62 billion, which, if the target demands are calculated with, the Austrian taxpayers already have to bear liability, may in future be increased to over €100 billion and to over €150 billion. Yes, please, what are the dangerous developments of democracy policy? – We must point out in good time that we do not seek to prevent such a thing, to keep the competence and self-determination here and not to resign and not to allow such developments to happen! [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] The Nobel Prizewinner Josef Stiglitz called the European aid programme for the Spanish banks not quite “Voodoo-Economics”. – Yes, that’s it! The system is, the Spanish government saves the Spanish banks and the Spanish banks save the Spanish government. For years we have been hearing again and again, banks are too big to drop them. And what do you want? – to make them even bigger, rather than at last considering how we can force banks back on their core business – separation of core business and speculation business – as we make units smaller in order to ensure a bank bankruptcy order, so that the innocent citizens as taxpayers are not constantly handcuffed for any speculators or other interests, the [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] They serve today – in the end, against the interests of the Austrians. And I say that in this context you can see the statement of German Chancellor Faymann – he is not a doctor, even though he is always in some magazines or in some media and in some radio stations or even in his own SPÖ correspondence in Vienna events with “Dr. Faymann” and he has not opposed it; yes, he is not an academic, our Federal Chancellor, yes he has not even learned a profession. [[Abg. May. Muttons: Such a fool! Distraction!]] Mrs Colleague, he has not even learned a profession. He has a seven-year black hole in his biography after leaving school, after finishing his school, and no one knows what he has done there. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] But at the end, after seven years of hole in the biography, he was then employed as a consul in a red central savings bank. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] - Highly interesting! It would be really interesting what he did in the seven years. But Faymann was at the Bilderberg conference now, we know. He was invited as a private person at the Bilderberg conference. Great! I wonder what skills – intellectual skills or whatever – he brought there to be invited in private – I really wonder! – but one thing is certain – it is not a shame to be invited there either –: Faymann was certainly not invited as a private person, but if, then, as chancellor. And then he also has transparency to live and to tell us what the high funding has been talking about there and whether he has really represented workers' interests there or has gotten quite different wishes on the way that one should implement in a row. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] Apart from: If Faymann says – in an interview he said that – that he wants to set strict rules for banks and financial markets in Europe now, since a common and independent banking supervision ensures, and then says that it must be as strictly organized as in Austria's financial market supervision, then the chickens laugh. – It is really strict! This has really worked excellent in all areas: With the municipal credit she didn't work super, she didn't work super at the BAWAG and she didn't work at the hypo super. She never really worked well. – But he now wants such strict directives at European level. This is a dangerous threat, I say! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Grace to us God if such strict rules are to protect us from such developments in the future! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, there's a lot in the arse. And I say that we need developments in our areas, as I mentioned earlier – that the banks do not grow even bigger – and we need developments where the size of the banks is also reduced, so that these mechanisms cannot be continued, as we have seen in recent years, as we have seen them in the last few years, when the whole economy has been abyssed, because banks have developed into a group size, as a result of which, in the end, everything has taken place and the politicians have partly become Hampelmen of these bank managers. I say that there is also a need to think again that politics takes over the issue of action and cannot be controlled and controlled by bank managers. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, solutions cannot be recognized in Austria under this currently existing red and black German government. It is the same politicians who made it in 1998 that we were forced to have a euro currency – without a referendum without polling the people – which promised us at that time, the euro will be an incredibly stable currency, it will be just as stable as the schilling and the D-mark, it will be a currency where essentially everything will get better, cheaper, a currency with which prices will fall and job development will improve. [[Call the ÖVP: Sure!]] – All of this has been remembered by citizens in the ear and in memory. And, of course, the EU sector is calling back from the EIA: That's the case! – Of course, look at the food prices! Look at the food prices, how they permanently rise! Look You're looking at inflation. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Look How today pensioners have to live with lowest pensions and their lives can no longer be temporary, because we have a price explosion! Do you really live in reality? - Yeah, you don't! They have thousands of euros per month net and have apparently lost any sense of the reality of the simple people. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You don't even know how simple people have to get through today. I am particularly angry when, in this context, the concept of solidarity is repeatedly misused if one is permanently misused of the concept of solidarity and says: We're solid! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Eßl.]] Yeah, who are you solidarian with? – They are in solidarity with the bank speculators, with those mistakes that we have to take on grain and put off, not solidarity with the citizen, not solidarity with the Greeks or Spaniards – they do not get any cents of these rescue packages. They don't see anything of it, on the contrary: That only burdens those citizens there more. And that is a development where I am so angry, because if solidarity is that developed sovereign states that meet a budgetary requirement and comply with those criteria, then in return, as compensation for wrong decisions by others – in the case of bank speculators or other states that do not comply with these criteria – have to accept their debts, then this is not a fair and solid process. Solidarity is due where there really is no debt that must ultimately be experienced today. That is the crucial point. Now one goes here and pays healthy money in a broken system and is not ready to recognize and finally admit that all the facts speak of the failure of the euro system in today's form and is in a dead end. You have to admit that! One speaks of a safe euro that alone had to be saved 14 times last year. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ing. Schools.]] What's safe about that? In a year 14 times rescue! Everyone up to Merkel says that it could happen over the next three months that the euro did not exist in the form. – And that’s what you’re talking about ‘safe’ euro development?- Oh, my God! The answer of the EU bureaucrats elite is not a statement of the mistakes, as I pointed out, nor a pulling of the emergency brake, no, nor a return to the start, but: pumping our healthy money into a broken system and potentifying the damage. This will be left in the end. In the end, the crisis, which is already strong enough today, will be further delayed until it continues to be potent. And that is exactly what you must be accused of: that you do not also think about other ways and discuss them at European Union level. In the end, this European bureaucrat elite also wants to have undemocratic, illegal devastations of the European Treaties, its own European Treaties, which are not prepared to be voted on in Austria again. This shows how important it is for us to move forward direct democracy in this country. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] This is – this is my final sentence – about the core tasks of the Constitution, and we want to ensure that the Austrian people are legally consulted in a referendum and that you do not make further expropriation with an ESM Stability Pact on the back of your own population.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e14503	In replica on this morning, I give Mr Herb, for the expression “unscrupulous, characterless” a call for order. [[Congratulation and bravorage of the Abg. Kickl.]] Mrs. Fekter, the Federal Minister for Finance, is speaking next time – do you want to call for an order? [[Calls by Members Grosz and Ing. Westenthaler: Mr Fekter! Mr Fekter]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: We quote Mrs. Fekter! She says she is “the only man” in the Federal Government!]] Mrs Bundesminister, you are speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e14562	I would just like to say the following: I was invited to the editor’s dinner as “Mr. Fekter” on Monday. The invitation was written on “Mr. Fekter, ” handwritten. To this – I call it now – I have responded embarrassingly. [[Abg. Grosz: put another one on it!]] You, Mr. Westenthaler, never happen to be invited anywhere as a “woman Westenthaler”, but women often happen to us that we are invited as “Lord”. [[Abg. Grosz: And what about the “crowding ”?]] That is why I have responded to this embarrassment in the invitation with this sage. I just wanted to make this clear once. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Grosz: The Sigmund Freud has a joy with you!]] Now on the subject of this urgent question. Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The topic is ‘Euro crisis’. Since 2008, we have faced several crises in Europe at the same time, starting with a banking crisis caused by the Lehman plea 2008. At that time, Europe helped us to secure a shield over our banks, which had an intense commitment in the East. The Vienna Initiative – an initiative from our Minister Sepp Pröll, originally smiled, but then carried with it from Europe – was the first rescue action that, in particular, saved us, Austria, our banks, our prosperity here in the country, and helped us. In the middle of this crisis management, the debt crisis of some euro countries has then reached, at the beginning of Greece. We had no instruments to operate crisis management, as we are currently doing. At that time, we first had to set up rescue shields, make arrangements, strengthen financial market supervision, impose certain bans on the fiscal sector, demand budgetary discipline, and, above all, build new institutionally, because it was not present. Now we have a banking crisis again, in Spain. The International Monetary Fund has given Spain the most insight into both the fiscal side, i.e. the budget in Spain and the policies for fiscal consolidation, as well as the financial market, and has found that consolidation measures in Spain are on the right track, but are not yet sufficient. He also noted that the export economy is growing, but that there is an economic problem due to very high unemployment and, above all, to high youth unemployment. But what the Monetary Fund strongly criticized or pointed out was the undercapitalization of the Marod banks in Spain. The Marod Banks in Spain are therefore in trouble because Spain has had a real estate bubble in recent years due to a macroeconomic imbalance. Due to the poor economic situation and the high level of unemployment, many can no longer repay the loans, and the Spanish banks are out of the equity ceiling. This is why Spain made a statement last Saturday, and in a telephone conference with the International Monetary Fund, together with the Central Bank, together with the Chief Eurogroup and the Commission on this declaration, the Finance Ministers have discussed a request for help. It has been discussed in terms of scale and it has been discussed how we can deal with it and with what instruments we can help if Spain makes a request. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! All of them were unisono's opinion that we're going to help. The question is how to negotiate when Spain has submitted an application; currently there is no one available. However, how does strict budgetary discipline in Spain clearly mean that the debt in Spain must not continue to grow. Secondly, there must also be a conditionality for this aid. [[Abg. Petzner: We said that for Greece too! We've seen what came out of it anyway!]] That is, conditions are laid down under which such assistance is provided. In particular, this concerns the restructuring of banks, their capital resources, efficiency increases in the financial sector and, above all, with regard to non-viable banks, up to a closure of banks. This too is a possibility. That is to say, the conditions imposed on Spanish banks are essential for any aid at all. The aid could be handled through the EFSF, which is an instrument that already exists, or through the ESM, which is the stability mechanism, but it is not yet available, because it is not yet ratified. Also, Austria has not ratified it, which is why I am looking for the House to ratify this protection mechanism, the ESM Stability Mechanism as soon as possible. He is the better instrument, he protects us Austrians better than the EFSF. [[Abg. Petzner: You don't believe that yourself!]] We have preferred creditor status there, we have rules for re-indebtedness there, we have options of orderly re-indebtedness there, and above all he guarantees more transparency. It would be wise to create this instrument as quickly as possible, to ratify it so that we can possibly already deal with Spanish aid through this instrument. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In the middle of the banking crisis, debt crisis has also resulted in a weakening economy in some European countries as a third element that we must fight very specifically. I therefore become a growth strategy. I am committed to an offensive approach to growth, to combating unemployment and, above all, to addressing youth unemployment specifically in Spain. We provide technical support through our dual training model, about our possibilities in the vocational schools. We want to show the young people, the government and those responsible how to create youth employment. Austria has the second best youth employment in all of Europe, only Holland is a little ahead of us. But we're trying, and maybe we'll be the best again soon. It is worth pursuing the goal of being the best in youth employment. We're on our way there. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Many will now ask themselves: Why do we do so together, so solidarity in Europe – banking crises, shields, euro stabilisation, debt stabilisation and growth strategies? – The reason for this is, ladies and gentlemen, also because young people are sitting there at the top of the gallery: [[Abg. Strache: A great stability brought together!]] Europe is our peace order, Europe is our larger home and a community of fate. [[Abg. Breach: However, there is no need for public expropriation and no denial of democratic fundamental rights!]] We don't want to make nationalism out of it. We've had that before. And we know we have to avoid that. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] That is why it is important to form this Europe together, and now we need a lot of design. We will need the Fiscal Union, we will have to grow closer together, we will have to be more disciplined in debt, debt reduction, debt brakes, we will have to be disciplined in households, in budget creation, and we will have to put together activities for more growth dynamics in Europe. Austria has shown how to do such a thing as to mark a consolidation path without slowing growth. We have better numbers than everyone around us. We have better figures on employment. We have a falling inflation. The measures we have taken have not inhibited growth, have not stimulated inflation, have jobs, and investors have remained in the country. Just as Austria has put up its package, this is what we are doing, and that is what we are going to do in Europe. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Strache: This is the fairy tale hour of Mrs. Fekter today!]] This solidarity is necessary, we live in a common currency area. The euro is also our currency, and we therefore have the highest interest in ensuring that it remains a stable currency. No one is interested in sending anyone to the pleite, but all those in charge in the Eurogroup have the highest interest in acting in solidarity. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Now on the questions. Questions 1 and 2: The single currency is based on common rules and has full political support for the heads of state or government of the eurozone and all the Eurozone's finance ministers. The exchange rate of the euro is currently higher than the value at the beginning of monetary union and is supported by comparatively good data from the euro area as a whole. The situation on the financial markets remains tense, but it was always clear that the great financial crisis, which took its outcome in the US, will generate tensions for a long time. Similarly, over the years, macroeconomic imbalances have developed in the eurozone, which cannot be eliminated with a strike. But we already have rules to eliminate them. Question 3: By the end of 2011, Austria provided bilateral grants to Greece of 1 billion 554,94 million, i.e. 1 554 million. [[Abg. What about the failure of monetary union? Question 2 please answer!]] In addition, Austria is currently responsible for total grants financed by the European Financial Stabilisation Facility, amounting to 4.2 billion additional interest of 328 million. Of these total liabilities, some 400 million were taken over by Ireland, 504 million in favour of Portugal and 3.2 billion in favour of Greece. The remaining non-ordinable liabilities are due to liquidity provisions and cash reserves. These measures have enabled Portugal and Ireland to be largely stabilised. [[Abg. Mr Strache: Mrs Minister, please ask Question No 2! Question 2 you did not answer!]] Questions 4 and 5: No. [[Abg. Strache: You left out the question 2!]] On question 6: The Troika, consisting of representatives of the IMF, the EU Commission and the ECB, has presented calculations that the operation of debt by Greece is possible. Question 7: The aid funds for the Spanish banks increase Spain's public debt and are mainly used for restructuring and recapitalisation of the banks. The statement is not understandable in this form. Question 8: Yes, it would even be desirable with regard to Spain's aid if the ESM had already been set up. On the question 9: The text is negotiated. There is no reason to amend this text and further delay the decision-making process. Question 10: The use of gold reserves is subject to the decision of the European System of Central Banks. State financing by the ESCB is excluded by the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. On the question 11: I am in principle positive about the use of this instrument because it will allow more private funds to be mobilised for projects than would be the case with traditional credit financing. That is why I also welcome the pilot phase now decided by the Council and the European Parliament, which provides for an evaluation. The evaluation is intended to provide insight into the advantages and disadvantages of Project Bonds and to clarify how they are absorbed from the market. Question 12: There are currently no concrete proposals on which to vote. Questions 13 and 14: This is a question of constitutional requirements. In the case of ESM and Fiscal Pact, the legal situation is clarified and no requirement is given. There is no proposal to Eurobonds. Questions 15 and 16: No. On the question 17: The European Central Bank cannot, of course, control inflation by country. However, the inflation rate in Austria is currently below the long-term average. On the question 18: No, no, no, The current problems are dealt with by a number of procedures in the Union. These procedures were recently reinforced by the Sixpack. Further measures for closer coordination are currently in progress, for example the Two Pack. Questions 19 and 20: The gold held and managed by the Oesterreichische Nationalbank, as well as the other currency reserves of the Oesterreichische Nationalbank, represent exclusively the property of the Oesterreichische Nationalbank. The management of reserves, including gold, is a task of the OeNB, which falls within the scope of the European System of Central Banks and, inter alia, the scope of Article 130 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, which is to be carried out autonomously by the OeNB, i.e. free of any instructions from other bodies, such as the Ministry of Finance. It should also be noted that there are no specific federal legislation on the form of storage, storage and control of OeNB stocks and that the accounting of OeNB and thus also the recording and identification of their gold stocks must be carried out in accordance with the National Bank Act in accordance with the Guideline of the European Central Bank on accounting principles and reporting in the European System of Central Banks. On question 21: The appointment of members by the Federal Government shall be made exclusively in accordance with the provisions of the National Bank Act. A corresponding Council of Ministers proposal has not yet been submitted. On Question 22: I have never taken this assessment in your question against your question.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e14865	We are now going into the debate. I would draw attention to the fact that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, no speaker may speak for more than 10 minutes. Each club has a total speaking time of 25 minutes. Mr Podgorschek. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e14893	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! You're still a countrywoman and not a countryman for me. But that means, of course, that I also see your work as a countryman, but you also stand, if it has to be, your husband, as you often notice. On this occasion, I can have the 4th. Class of the main school of Steinerkirchen from Upper Austria welcomes me and I am glad that even more fellow countrymen are among us. [[It was in favour of the FPÖ as well as of representatives of ÖVP and BZÖ.]] Mrs. Federal Minister! When I listened to you today, I had a Déjà-vu, which is because I have heard the entire argumentarium from you before when you wanted to explain the Greek crisis to us. Now we have the same thing with Spain. In contrast to Mr Katzian, I am not in the wrong film, I think, in the right film, namely in the film “And daily the Murmeltier greets”. If you repeatedly come up with the killing argument that the European Union is a huge peace project and any criticism of the European Union endangers peace, then I can only say that the arguments are extremely weak. The concern about our taxpayers and the concern for our people ultimately drives us to point out these shortcomings. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Solidaric action means to us that we are concerned about our taxpayers, our people. I can congratulate you very much. They have already considered Italy to be at risk, as my clubman has said, in a realistic approach. I can only give you that right. And if the President of the IMF Christine Lagarde of the Eurozone only gives more than three months, then there is quite a fire on the roof, we know. We won't get through with persisting parallels as we hear them from you again and again. You just have to note that every monetary union, like it has now been set up, has fallen in history. It's not possible to get a lid over different economies and then believe that it works. That worked for ten years, but now the whole thing breaks up. You must tell the people the truth: Do we want a European state? That's what's behind it at the end. Do we want an economic government? Do we want the task of our sovereignty? Do we want the task of budgetary sovereignty? Do we want the task of tax authority? And do we want to agree to this ESM, which means nothing but an empowerment law? Do you really want that? Then say that to the population and also allow for a referendum on it! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The question that will arise in the future is: Should one now build a political union or disband the euro zone? And that has nothing to do with nationalism, that is quite clear and concrete economic policy. Open up to the peoples what you want! With happy and joyful messages, as we have been hearing them for two years, we will certainly not overcome the euro crisis. It also does nothing if Spain is getting a loan in the short term, that then Finance Minister Schäuble will be back again, now it goes up again. I have some of the politicians in Europe, like Merkel and Schäuble, like Hänsel and Gretel, who say courage to each other in the forest because they fear the dark forest and wait for the evil witch to come. But this jubilee front, starting with Thilo Sarrazin, breaks out, confessing social democracy, which has realised that the euro is a misconception. The head of the German Industry Association Hans-Olaf Henkel has shown the wrong path. And even with the active social democrats, the front crumbles when the member of the European Parliament Jörg Leichtfried says he sees the danger of the big bang coming upon us. Professor Hans-Werner Sinn, head of the ifo Institute, has clearly predicted two years ago that the euro will be divided into a northern and southern euro. The sheer is going to break up all the time. Look If you are looking at the countries in a row: Greece has a drop of 27 percent in exports, Spain minus 22 percent and Italy minus 17 percent, while Germany and Austria increase their export volume rather. How is that supposed to work? – It can only work in such a way that there will be a large transfer, and there the population will... [[Abg. Krainer: From what year are the numbers?]] Today predicted, Professor! [[Cheerfulness at the FPÖ.]] Our taxpayers will pay, pay and pay again. What we're doing is nothing but throwing good money behind bad. This voodoo economy, supported by paid economists and bankers who are naturally afraid of their bonuses, will lead us into a crash, and this crash is about to happen. Therefore, Mrs Federal Minister, I expect you to answer question 2 above all, because Question 2 is essential for our future and especially for our future generations, and you have not given us an answer to that!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e14955	Mr Klubobmann Dr. Cap is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e14977	Madam President. High house! We should, if we have this debate – and that is the employment and fate of many people, about security, about pension systems, about social systems of a continent with hundreds of millions of inhabitants – try to lead them in the same quality, because the mere description of processes, simple accusations or simple clues will not bring us there. [[Depressive applause by Dr. Hübner and Ing. Höbart]] [[Abg. Dr. Hübner: That's exactly what this is about!]] The best thing would be to try to develop a solution strategy or something that goes beyond the analysis. [[Abg. Neubauer: Maybe you could answer Question 2!]] [[Abg. Strache: That means you are now answering the question 2 for the Minister of Finance?]] This can and should also be done by opposition parties, and this does not necessarily have to be a task exclusively for those who are under the pressure of decisions every day. I'm not saying now that you're just commenting and representing sachwang scenarios on the other side, without describing the scope for action. This is in the final effect. Now we all know each other, probably many areas of problem have not been fully recognized by the house in the construction of this eurozone. Probably – and we have already found that a few times – one should have looked a little more closely at the enlargement of the euro area. [[Ah-Rufe at the FPÖ.]] Perhaps we should have looked more closely at the enlargement of the European Union. [[Congratulations on the members of the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Blow: A late insight! A very late insight!]] This is undisputed, that's nothing new, I've already said that a hundred times. But what we now have is the realization that from this euro zone we have economic – and you have to explain this to all those whose representatives you are pretending to be – that we still have a huge benefit, that we already had and that you want to have in the future. Half a million jobs depend on a successful export to the euro zone. We are all interested in growth prospects. We therefore also hope that the Council will take appropriate steps in this regard at the end of June. It was announced. In France too, there will probably be a very strong majority in support of the President's plans after the next election Sunday. In Germany, it is also discussed in this direction. Many economists say this: Growth is an essential element. And now it's up to you to ask yourself: Where is this growth to take place, with what perspective and what use of resources? I only plead for a more differentiated discussion, including those who constantly say: Growth through debt? - No, no, no! But debt is not equal to debt. There may well be growth-related indebtedness. [[Abg. Strache: Rescue screen packs are not growth-related debt!]] But it can also be something where you say, a moment, there is the money of public households that are getting scarceer and scarceer. There, of course, you can develop savings programmes. Look, Italy is a poor state, but has rich private households, Greece has no functioning tax collection system and is a very weak state. Both are historically well-founded and explainable, but what we need now, these are solutions for the countries that are in the euro area, for the benefit of all of us and especially of Austria, because we as a country with eight and a half million inhabitants depend on the fact that there is this functioning economic area. In this economic area, we want to be competitive with China, with the United States, with other emerging countries on other continents – while preserving social achievements, our social system, pension systems, education systems, and the ability to invest in future areas. That's the decisive thing. [[Abg. Strache: All that means: Finger away from the ESM!]] That should bear us in this debate, and I think the Federal Government is doing the right thing at the moment. You may be able to discuss even more differentiatedly whether this is to be done with another accent, but in principle it does exactly the right thing, and we hope that this perspective will also be reflected. [[Abg. Strache: If you really want to, then you have to leave your fingers away from the ESM!]] What must be done in the international field? The Financial Times writes: Investors are afraid of Italy. The “Handelsblatt” writes “Spanish poison” because the banks are under control, but the creditors have no influence in areas beyond, as is practiced in countries such as Portugal, Ireland and Greece. This seems to be an aspect where different standards are measured, probably in relation to the size of the country. You have to think about it. But when we are discussing the issue of parts of national sovereignty with the perspective to prevent the loss of whole sovereignty, I also believe that it is worth entering budget deficit procedures in certain areas, if there are areas of problem that we should then accept. [[Abg. Strache: They are talking about growth-enhancing politics and want to abandon the self-determinational violence! That's perverse! One contradiction hunts the other!]] Look, if you give someone money, borrow, lend, then of course you want a certain discipline with the one that takes the money. That, I think, is a very normal process, and I see it that way. But what is associated with it is the rules that prevent tax relief, that the international community is putting pressure on the small countries that are tax havens, where permanent flight fees are bunked. Or: Banking supervision needs to be made more efficient. It requires appropriate financial market rules, the prohibition of certain financial products. There's a very large area where you could get ahead. But in the case of all the things that we are discussing here, it is important to note that mere saving does not lead to the goal, but must be done in combination with a growth perspective, with optimism, with an investment willingness, and – this will be particularly important in Greece – with the construction of structures that enable an export economy to develop there, that the country will have an industrial base, something that Italy has and what one often forgets when discussing it. But all this is to be discussed under the perspective: And what does it use Austria? because we are part of the whole. We have joined the Eurozone and the European Union so that Austria can benefit from it so that we have an advantage. It's not just altruism. And we have had the advantage, and we will also want it in the future and can guarantee it in the context of an appropriate policy of this large Community. We will ensure that, despite global competition, this European model is further guaranteed for the people who work here, who want to have safety for their age, who want to have a proper health care. This also plays a major role in the factor of justice. In dealing with crises and their consequences, consideration should always be given to the aspect of safeguarding social justice. By the way, because this is also a kind of productive factor: If people, pensioners, employees who have a job, all also have money in their pocket, then this is something that naturally puts the economy in motion. This affects the rural area, meets all the areas that meet the middle classes, small, medium-sized entrepreneurs, large entrepreneurs. That's crucial! This perspective, I believe, must be guaranteed, one must keep it, and that is the task of a responsible federal government, and it also takes care of it. This is also the task of the opposition if it really wants to be involved in the national interest and if it wants to have a serious and fair debate here in this House.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e15139	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Stummvoll. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e15161	Madam President. My two ladies on the government bank! High house! If we are discussing this urgent question today, then we are undoubtedly discussing the Causa perfectly at European level. That's not the question number 21, whether the Werner Muhm is sitting in the sheet or not, but the Causa is fine: How do we deal with this drama of the European sovereign debt crisis? The solutions are very difficult. I only point out that the biggest economists, the biggest and most respected experts, are different opinions. The very valued colleague Podgorschek, also very much appreciated in the Committee on Finance, has quoted Hans-Werner Sinn, who meant: Harder North Euro, weak South Euro. That's what Klubobmann Strache said. On the other hand, an expert opinion from the German Federal Chancellor's Office, which comes to the conclusion, would mean that the countries that have the strong Nordeuro, i.e. Germany, Austria, Holland, probably have a currency upturn of about 60 percent. Please bear in mind what this export-oriented economy means, which means for Austria, whose prosperity is 60 percent dependent on exports! [[Abg. Stache: Mr. Stumbling! Calculate once nationally through: liability on the one hand, exports on the other side!]] Do you know what you're doing, Mr. Strache? This would mean a dollar-euro course of 1: 1.8. Ask our economic researchers what this would mean for our tourism and for our export industry! [[Abg. Strike: Calculate this once by: Liabilities on one side, exports on the other side!]] Mr Strache, what I wanted to say is just that the solution is not as simple as it is explained at the beer table, the biggest experts are also different opinions. I actually wanted to express that. The most important experts are different views on how solutions should be. The problem is that we now have a series of crises for the fourth year. It has begun with the subprime crisis in the USA, flooded on Europe. The following followed the global financial crisis. Then the economic crisis followed, then the sovereign debt crisis and then the banking crisis. And Europe still has four crises: This is the sovereign debt crisis, which is the balance of payments crisis due to the different competitiveness, that is the banking crisis, and it is very slow to wonder whether there is also a political crisis, because a common European strategy is not yet visible. We can only hope that the next decisions will show a common strategy for Europe. [[Abg. Street: For the next four weeks!]] But if I only look at how difficult it is to implement what we decided six years ago, an all-party decision at the time, namely a financial transaction tax – we have 27 EU countries and 17 euro states, and nine are for it; that is, one third of all EU countries and only half of all euro area countries are for the financial transaction tax – this shows how difficult it is to develop a common European strategy here. If we want to discuss solutions – I am entirely of the opinion of the clubman Cap – in fact, what is the solution – then we have to ask ourselves, Mr. Strache, which is ultimately the cause of the present state. There are many causes. I might like to highlight three. The first reason was undoubtedly that many countries of Europe, as well as many in our country, have believed the political fairy tale for many years, a state can spend more on a permanent basis than it takes, as opposed to the private. – This is a political fairy tale, it turns out today. We see it in all drama. The second cause – and we have to find out very soberly – was a birth mistake of the euro. I have also repeatedly said that the euro is a historical experiment. A common currency without a common fiscal policy was an experiment. Now we say looking back, it was actually incredibly blue-eyed, incredibly naïve, to believe that the Maastricht criteria alone will ensure the stability of the euro. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Petzner.]] That's what we have to say today. [[Abg. Street: Remember when the euro was introduced! As you spoke, you didn't talk about an experiment!]] The third, Mr Strache, is that in recent years many EU Member States have simply let the reins of budgetary policy, competitiveness and banks. There's no one to take out like I mean. I think we have managed a good course there, but we also have potentials and we also need reforms. I'm just calling an example. We are very happy, we are really very happy and happy that we have the best labour market data in Europe, the second best in youth unemployment. But let us not forget, if I compare three countries, Austria, Switzerland, Sweden, all three countries have a legal retirement age of 65 years, which is factual in Austria 58, in Switzerland 65,7 and in Sweden 66, we still need enormous reform, ladies and gentlemen! We're accusing the other countries, they're not ready. We also need reform, even if we are going a good way, even if we are there. But my question is never: Are we standing there well or are we bad?, but my question is: Why aren't we better? Because this small country in the heart of Europe has all the opportunities in this world. This is my basic attitude, Mr President. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We have all the opportunities in this world, and we are on the road well, but I believe we can undoubtedly still lie down. Question solutions. There are several variants. One variant is that Greece should leave. Well-known experts say that if you take in a bit of the domino effects, that costs the EU about €400 billion. The next variant is split into hard euro and soft euro. I have said earlier that this is a disaster for the export industry, for tourism in those countries that have a strong euro. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bucher.]] The third solution, the transfer union, cannot be. This would mean that those who are capable of doing so help those who have fewer incentives to reform. The solution can only be a fiscal union, can only be done gradually, can only be a step towards a fiscal union through a fiscal pact. And of course, individual Member States must do their homework. And these homeworks are a strategic triangle in economic policy. This means budget consolidation, structural reforms and growth impulses, but growth is not due to new debts. Ladies and gentlemen, if that were so easy, I always say that Europe would have to have a great growth, because debt is enough. So it can't be that simple, but we need growth through properly intelligent savings in order to be able to invest. We must see that we reduce those expenditures that are not growth-relevant, and strengthen those expenditures such as research, development, science, education that generate growth. This is ultimately the solution to this problem. It's very difficult. But I think Austria is a model example of how to solve the problems. We do both in our stability laws, we make a restrictive policy on the expenditure side, but at the same time create offensive impulses for growth and employment. [[Abg. Bucher: How do you stand for Eurobonds?]] In this sense, I am quite confident that we will succeed in applying our line at European level too.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e15274	Mr Van der Bellen is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e15296	Madam President. First of all, Mrs. Federal Minister. With two of your answers, I've checked a little until I've thought about it, you can answer it that way. First of all, the answer to Question 6, which was whether Felder was right if he thought that Greece would not be able to repay the aid funds provided. As you have said, Greece will repay it. As you know, I have been firmly convinced for three years that Greece will not be able to do so. But it is a difference, I would like to add, whether Mr Strache says it, whether I say it or whether the Federal Minister says it. She must be silent in such a case, she must even, I think, speak against her own conviction when she speaks publicly. For if she believes, our Federal Minister Fekter, that Greece will not be able to repay it, what will be then? – Then we would ask: Yes and what does that mean, who pays and what happens then, where are the models? [[Abg. Strache: That would be honest handling!]] That would be honest, but unprofessional. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Strache: So you have to lie to be professional!]] I'm sorry, I have to say that. In such situations, it is extremely sensitive – and I am now returning to it as part of Question 22 – what a minister, a minister, says publicly. Question 22 has made FPÖ easy for you, I think. That was the question: “How did you come to appreciate that Italy has to come under the euro-saving screen in the foreseeable future?” I think the Minister of State Fekter said in this TV interview, “ZiB 2”? [[Between call of the Abg. Ing. Westenthaler.]] Wait, Mr. Westenthaler. If she did not have to say, but used another formulation, about it could be that, it is likely that, it may not be to avoid that, and so on, her answer is correct that she has never made this statement that way. As we all know, Mr Bartenstein, it is, of course, only a third of the truth. For if she had not met the statement, Mario Monti, after all Italian Prime Minister, would have been incomprehensiblely excited, as a Finance Minister, in this case from Austria, could publicly speculate on the question of whether Italy should come under the so-called rescue shield or not. So this has to be a real thing – how do the lawyers say? – have substrate. In this case, contrary to the answer to question 6, Mrs Fekter, I find that a Fauxpas has taken first place. If such statements had been made, for example, by Mr Schäuble, Germany, ten times as important and so on, Italy could have cost millions if the financial markets responded to rising interest rates and so on. We agree, Mr Bartenstein, that such statements, even if they should be regarded as true, must not meet a minister in public? A special charm in this context is that we are negotiating with the Ministry of Finance, the ÖVP and the SPÖ on the new Rules of Procedure on the ESM framework conditions. We are breaking our heads, Mr Bartenstein or Mr Stummvoll, about the so-called compliance rules when Members fail to comply with the confidentiality rules. We have been talking about this for a long time, and it is an important point. Mr President, have we not forgotten anything about this? What if ministers fail to comply with certain implicit or explicit compliance rules? So I think this is an interesting case in point. To Spain. That was the real occasion, I think, of this urgent request. In fact, we do not know what is to be done in Spain at all. Or, Mr. Head? The Minister of Finance described it correctly. We've said we're taking 100 billion euros in our hands. But what we take hold of them, how we take it into our hands, who spends it and how to spend it, that's all to be clarified first. It's okay, that's a true statement, I'd say it all the time. It's just right and touching. It is this memoranda of Understanding to work out. And on 21 and 22. June, when the ECOFIN meets, we may already know more about this matter. However, one thing I would be interested in, Mrs Federal Minister, is perhaps not uninteresting for the liberals as a thought experiment. You have said that in the context of the Memorandum of Understanding and so on, this so-called conditionality, under which the €100 billion will then be awarded, is very important, among other things – and I quote you now, I believe, literally – that the debts of Spain should not grow. Is that right? [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter nodds.]] Yeah, okay. Spain's debt must not grow. I have here dated the prospect of the International Monetary Fund of June 2012, i.e. the latest date. After that, the General Government Debt increases, which is government debt within the meaning of Maastricht, from 40 percent of GDP in 2008 to 61 percent in 2010, 79 percent of GDP 2012, 87 percent in 2014, 91 percent in 2016 – a continuous upward movement. [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter: That's right, Professor!]] It's a foreview, but let's assume it's so. Now I take your statement that the debt in Spain must not grow. So either these debts should not grow, or – this would be an alternative explanation – if the government debt is growing to this extent, then private debt must fall to the appropriate extent to ensure that the total debt remains constant. Or? This is simple arithmetic. How do we reduce the so-called private debt in Spain? For example, Mr Strache, by making the Bankia and other Spanish large banks plead. I would just like to draw your attention to what this means and that I therefore respect the European finance ministers and others who hesitate and hesitate to make decisions before they finally make decisions. That is what we all say so easily, yes, let's argue the bankia. They have speculated in the course of the real estate bubble, never end, that must be punished. Then who will be punished? – On the one hand, the shareholders, if they so to speak, lose their capital. However, the shareholders in the case of the Bankia are the small savers who have been persuaded to participate in the Bankia on the occasion of the founding of the Bankia. Secondly, the savers who have their money at the bankia are, of course, the creditors of this bank. They also risk a lot. I don't know what the Banking Deposit Guarantee Act looks like in Spain, but there will be a significant number of people who lose their money. This must be politically represented and maintained, in Spain, but ultimately here with us, when we represent such measures. If this doesn't go politically, then the debt must rise overall, sorry, so sad that's it. The expression “Voodoo-Economics” by Stiglitz is likely to be exaggerated as usual, but in the core it is already comprehensible. We don't know what to do with the 100 billion euros. We do not know, this will be granted in the form of any kind of credit or recapitalisation in the sense of equity. We do not know how the relationship between ESM and this bank fund in Spain, as it always means, and the individual banks to be recapitalised, will see how any credit for these banks will be converted over time into equity, whether you ever see this money again and whether the ESM is the right instrument for it. Every instrument, as good as it may be, if you use it properly, will, of course, become a disaster if you use it incorrectly, such as the famous bread knife used to cut throats. This is usually not the meaning of a knife. If the ESM is used in the same way as the Greek loans to grant liquidity aid to insolvent institutions in principle, this is a wrong use of the funds. [[Abg. Bookbooker: That's exactly that!]] And we'll be there in two, three years just as smart as we are now. For the time being, the markets have reacted negatively to the €100 billion in the sense that the implicit interest rate on Spanish bonds, secondary market interest rates, has risen. What is totally unusual is that interest on German, French and British bonds has also increased. Normally, this changes so to speak. In this case, however, it seems that, if one wants to do so, a moderate flight of capital from the euro sector, including Germany, has taken place. This can only be interpreted in such a way that the confidence of financial markets in this kind of solution is provisionally zero. I hope it improves and changes.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e15399	Mr Klubobmann Bucher is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e15427	Yes, this is a Taferl, Mrs. Finanzminister, you should take that seriously. Ladies and gentlemen! Somehow, in the course of the whole Euro debate, you slowly gain the impression that nowhere is there any lie as much as a hunt and around this euro rescue package and the help measures. That is why I would also like to take these statements from the Minister for Finance to the right. She has already argued very superficially in one case or another. Mrs. Federal Minister, we are not from yesterday either, but we have been sitting here since the beginning of this legislative period and can therefore remember very well what was in 2008, how you dealt with this problem at the time and how you approached us, how spectacular the situation was 2008. And in 2008 we all said together, yes, we want to help the banks not to harm Austria's economic location and the economy of Austria, but with completely different omens, Mrs. Federal Minister! With completely different signs! They also promised that supervision would be strengthened at the time. At the time, they said that we would not only equip financial market supervision in Austria with instruments, but that it would no longer be easy for banks to speculate in the future. At that time, in 2008, you promised us everything. Now we have the year 2012, and it is still not regulated what the banks are allowed and what they have to fail. To date, you have not fulfilled this promise, admittedly, it has been Mr Pröll's promise. But even then we have already said that this cannot go well if the Austrian banks grant so many loans in the East, over €300 billion, and € 350 billion in the meantime. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Krainer.]] This is also the reason why the banks have been saved recently, because the risk is far too great, because this system does not work and because one should have thought about changing this system, to finally regulate this system of government bonds again in an orderly manner. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I do not understand the social democracy that has been explained by the example of Spain. That's where you print euro to help the banks. Banks, on the other hand, give the euro to governments. And so artificially a carousel of money is created, where at the end of this chain, inflation increases and people have to stand up for it. Yes, where is that social, ladies and gentlemen? It is always the peace project of Europe, of solidarity. Yes, what is social about seeing in Spain now how people are being deported in order, where, when you get to the hospital, you have to set aside the money if you want to have a medicine, where you paradoxically, if you have broken your foot or your hand, you have to take the plaster to the hospital? Yes, there is no social democracy. From my point of view, this is the pure non-social attitude. This is the coffin of Europe, ladies and gentlemen, which is showing itself here, unsocial and unfair. [[OBJECTIVES]] You should finally take note of that. Mrs Finanzminister, why clarify Are you not at all aware of this banking issue at European level? We have made the proposal to reintroduce this separation banking system at European level, which has worked so well until the 1980s. That was great. [[Abg. Krainer: We didn't have that at all!]] Of course, we did. With all these aid measures, they are promoting the universal banking system to make banks even bigger so that banks become even more prominent so that they really fail too big to and the taxpayers have to stand straight for it. We again need a healthy banking system in Austria, where we separate the investment and speculation banks from the commercial banks and where the taxpayer is only more liable for the commercial banks and no longer for the speculators in our country. It worked well, didn't it? [[BZÖ and FPÖ are welcome.]] All government representatives went to the banks on glue. Of course, it is comfortable for the bank managers if they can deliver great balance sheets and then cash bonuses in millions. Where is it social? Where is it social?, I wonder. This is the most unsocial thing you can actually imagine. And now there is a banking union at European level. This is the next step: the merger of banks at European level, banking funds, that is. That is to say, the Austrian taxpayers must be liable for the savings of the Greeks, the Spanish, the Portuguese. Ladies and gentlemen! I'm sure people don't want that! Why don't you talk to the citizens about how they actually think about it? Mrs Finanzminister! [[In the case of the BZÖ, as well as the members of the FPÖ.]] You really sell us for stupid, or you don't inform yourself fair and serious. Today, the Freedom Party makes a request: What do you think of Eurobonds? – And you answer: No one has asked this question yet. I mean, where do you live? We have been discussing Eurobonds at European level for a long time, and we in the House have already discussed Eurobonds with you and you stand up and say: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grosz]] This question has never been asked. Read the “world online” – not a month ago, not two months ago, and not yesterday, but today, 13.28 p.m. [[The speaker shall keep a document up to date.]] A completely insignificant man you probably don't know, EU Commission President Manuel Barroso – nothing to say, insignificant – do you know what he said? [[Call the BZÖ:Barolo, that's what Gusenbauer said!]] “Eurobonds are in addition to a banking union” – which I have already said – “and a fiscal union building blocks of the EU plan to strengthen the integration of the euro area to combat the debt crisis.” [[Call the ÖVP:Yes, but only off!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. stupid.]] For the first time, Eurobonds! For the first time, Mrs. Finanzminister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! That's reality. It's being prepared. The united debt of Europe, ladies and gentlemen, are being prepared there and you say you haven't heard of it yet? [[BZÖ's condolences.]] If you're in those bodies, what are you doing, Mrs. Finanzminister? Don't you listen to the people who are discussing inside how they can at last find an effective instrument to make it better than to make the situation worse and worse? In fact, it's like this: With every meeting, with every summit meeting, the situation is getting worse. Unemployment rates are rising at European level. The debt increases at European level. The only thing that's falling is economic growth. This goes down the stream just as the euro goes down. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! From time to time – North-Euro, South-Euro, national currencies – models: It's all too late.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e15544	Mr Ing. Höbart is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e15583	Madam President. High house! We really have to ask the Minister of Finance – and I ask her specifically now –: Faith Are you still doing these things that you want to sell to this high house? A very concrete example: They stood here a year ago and tried to sell us the help of Greece, to present it as important. They talked about Greece paying €1.2 million in interest and that this would be a great business for Austria. Today, we know that we will never see the billions that we actually have sunk in the Greek Aegean, and that this is anything but a good business. This cannot be the actual opinion of the Minister for Finance. Mrs Finanzminister! Capabilities Please listen to the speeches here in plenary, that's incredible! [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] I would like to ask you: In our urgent inquiry we have asked you questions that you have not answered enough. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] That is why I ask you again – under point 2: "How do you prepare Austria for a possible failure of monetary union? “ All the experts have already put this in perspective. You didn't answer this in the National Council. I would urge you once again to give an answer. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Interestingly, you have the question 13 – “Are you going to work to make the establishment of a European transfer(debt) union by way of ESM, Fiscal Pact and Eurobonds dependent on direct democratic mechanisms in Austria?” – denied. That is to say, you are contrasting the so-called hypocritical line of the ÖVP to work towards more direct democracy. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] Once again, we caught the ÖVP that she doesn't take seriously the things that she's picking out. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Street: The citizens know this!]] On the question of 20 of our urgent question: “In which states is the gold of the OeNB” – I emphasize: this is the property of taxpayers – “and how high is the share of gold claims in the total gold stocks of the OeNB?” you also refused the information. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] I note that, for example, information has been provided in Germany and Belgium. Mrs Finanzminister! I would urge you to answer this question accordingly. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Now for a short time to the euro: The subject of this urgent question is the euro crisis. I hold fast – and you should know that very slowly – that the architecture of the euro is fundamental. You don't have to be a professor or a magician, like Col. Krainer, you just need a little basic understanding for economy – economic base 1 is usually enough – to realize that such different economies, different social systems, as they are now mixed together in the euro area, simply don't fit into a single currency. This simply does not work, and we know very well that in the past countries like Greece and Italy have always adjusted their economic performance through depreciation. You know that. You don't need to shake your head. The second question is whether the euro has more advantages or disadvantages. As the euro has been designed and introduced so far, we see a clear picture: He's got more disadvantages. I've already said this before: The euro in the current form certainly has more benefits than benefits, because we must recognize that the European Union has long - tragically, although there are always clear rules in the Treaties that do not allow this - developed into a classical transfer union. This is a very bad game on the back of the taxpayers. What's it look like now? – Stable economies feed weak economies through – this is the one side – and banking systems are supported, especially their high risk transactions, the speculation transactions of these banks. The third point: The story that we are told, above all, by the Minister of Finance and also by the Government, that the euro is a must is simply wrong. We know very well that there are Member States in the European Union who do not yet have a euro, and they have not fallen into a deep recession or depression or whatever the circumstances. [[Abg. May. Schickhofer: The Hungary!]] That is, this story that you are constantly spreading, that the world can only work with one euro, which you can perhaps tell your grandmother, but no longer our population. [[Abg. May. Schickhofer: But Hungary isn't doing better either, is it?]] [[call to the FPÖ.]] The fourth point here is the price we are trying to save the euro as it exists. There I would like to quote Professor Sinn, this quote has not yet been brought: The ‘Euro is in explosion’. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] “The neighbors became creditors and debtors”. – But this is a fact, that is a fact, Mr Bartenstein. I quote Professor Sinn: “The patient is sick”, but cheerfully organized with cheap money parties, played with the boys from Wall Street. Now he gets opium, “he got used to the opium, and we keep giving it to him. ” This is the much-quoted voodoo economy – that is to say, completely indifference, at which conditions and at which price the euro is saved. [[Call to the ÖVP: don't make sense, that's what you're supposed to do!]] The proposals for solutions are also on the workbench. We have always suggested that it makes sense to design, introduce a currency zone, work together in the stable economies that have similar social systems and in which it does not look like now, where the stable economies ultimately feed the weaker economies, the weaker economies. We say stone and clear: Our money for our Leut’ – instead of sinking billions into the Greek Aegean.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e15733	Next speaker: Mr Krainer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e15754	Madam President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! When Josef Cap said that it was probably a mistake to extend the monetary union around Greece, there were almost acceptable calls to the liberals. But I also remember what Minister of Finance agreed to enlargement, and that was the blue Minister for Finance in June 2000. [[Abg. Kickl: How did the SPÖ vote? How did the SPÖ vote?]] In June 2000, the Blue Minister for Finance agreed to enlargement. Part of the criticism that is practised – partly justified – is, in itself, a criticism that turns to your own past or to the mistakes of your own past and not to those of others. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] [[Abg. Street: So I've been sitting in this house since 2006!]] But it does not take us any further steps to explain who made what mistakes three, four, five years ago. I also say quite honestly: If a Social Democratic Minister had been a Minister of Finance in June 2000, I am quite sure that he would have agreed to enlargement with Greece. [[Abg. You've agreed! You have agreed in this House as a SPÖ!]] – The Blue Minister of Finance has agreed, at least if you are talking about honesty and honesty, then first of all you should talk to your seat neighbour, who is missing when it comes to these issues, and secondly, you should also look at your own past – your personal past and your party’s past – and at least there can honestly say: [[Abg. Strache: I have been sitting here in the house since 2006, Mr. Krainer, since 2006!]] Yes, in June 2000, a blue finance minister agreed to extend monetary union to Greece. You could say that. [[Abg. Strache: This is what the German Chancellor Klima signed!]] – In June 2000 this could not have happened. [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] If we hold the discussion here – it always says: the countries of the south – then we look back only a few years, what marode economies were and what healthy economies were, which economies or which states, for example, have adhered to Maastricht and which have not. The Sinterland number 1 of Maastricht in the first ten years was Germany – the ones that are best in the world today. Two Maastricht model students were Spain and Ireland – model students – extremely low indebtedness, almost every year surpluses. There is a question of whether the rules were the right ones. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ing. Höbart.]] It could also be said today that it was right not to stick to Maastricht and a mistake to stick to Maastricht. I think it's both too short. The Maastricht rules were not meaningful because the problems with Spain and Ireland, for example, were banking problems, were private debt problems and had nothing to do with public debt. Public debt was exemplary both in Spain and in Ireland. What has not been looked at are other questions: current account or trade deficits, real estate price trends and the like – something that has now been added. It was said – Mr Bucher said that –: You promised, there are new rules, and nothing has happened. What has happened is that, among other things, one does not only look at four criteria, because these four criteria after Maastricht say relatively little and one sees, that has not predicted anything about Spain, Ireland, but there is a much wider monitoring process, where economic imbalances have been achieved, where unemployment is involved and the like. Is that enough? - No, I don't. Can you improve that? - Yes. But some things have happened. They have addressed the problems of the banks in Eastern Europe and have asked the question: How can they lend so many loans? There is a new system that you know or at least you need to know, so that the relationship between savings deposits in individual European countries and lending for re-allocations is regulated and now has a healthy measure. That means we have a number of improvements in things that you have criticized here, there are rules. Is everything regulated for the future? - No, I don't. It's true: Europe and the eurozone are naturally on the verge of giving away, and the question is in what direction it is developing. There are essentially two ways. This is one way: more Europe, but that means, of course, more solidarity with one another. This means, for example, common or much more harmonised tax policy. This must, of course, mean more democracy at European level. There are deficits. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Widmann.]] But you can criticise something and make positive proposals for further development, which you do not do. They criticise you, and in reality the way you and your blue brothers are proposing here is quite another: the renationalisation, the less Europe. That's what you've been saying all the time, and that's what the FPÖ says. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bucher.]] And that's where I say: No, I believe that it is right to deepen more towards more Europe. This does not mean that I always agree with everything that happens at European level. I'll tell you one thing: We also have the different “people’s economies” – under quotation marks – in Austria. We also have more powerful federal states and weaker federal states. As Wiener I could say, now I have to feed the Carinthians because of the hypo – but I don't think so. [[call to the FPÖ.]] I don't think now about whether they should introduce the Bearentaler into Carinthia, and I don't think I'm going to get rid of the others. Even though under black and blue, I felt that the government, the politics in Austria, was bad, I did not think that Vienna or any federal country should leave – but instead fight for majority for the right development of a country, for majority struggle for the right policy in a country. [[Mr Hübner and Mr Mag. Stefan]] And I do. I believe that we need to further develop the European Union and that there is a need for more Europe and not what you want: less. [[Call to the FPÖ: How do we do that?]] What you suggest here, there is this experiment: Let banks plead, do nothing, don't help neighbors – we know that. There was a half comparable crisis, which is that of the 1930s. We have seen what this policy is leading to. It has led to mass unemployment, which has led to an x-fold of what we see today – what I think is far too high and where I feel that more should be done about it; but at that time we had real mass poverty, genuine mass unemployment; compared to that, it is still relatively low today – with all possible political, economic, social consequences, up to the Second World War, which I cannot see completely dissolved from the economic crisis. What FPÖ proposes, you've already tried, it doesn't work. We want to go another way.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e15899	Mr Bartenstein is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e15921	Madam President. My dear women Federal ministers! High house! I do not want to start dealing with the past, but it should not be child-moving. Dear Mr Krainer! Of course, the changes for Greece's admission to the Eurozone under Minister of Finance Edlinger and the then Federal Chancellor climate – he has just reached 65 years old, congratulations! .................................................................................................................................................................................. In the direction of FPÖ, so that things do not fall into oblivion, it should also be mentioned: It was then, of course, the FPÖ Finance Minister Grasser, who represented the euro and then rightly also on the 1st. The euro was warmly welcomed by January 2002. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] – I know you don’t want to know anything about him today, but he was the Finance Minister of FPÖ at the time. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Our Minister for Finance rightly pointed out: Since 2008, since Lehman Brothers, there has been an exchange pool of feelings for us. The euro crisis may not be the crisis of the euro, but the eurozone must always be the crisis. It is a policy of smaller and larger steps that is trying to disintegrate the crisis and not allow our real economy to beat our citizens through. Thus, the step of the Finance Ministers to make a commitment of up to €100 billion after initial hesitation in Spain is perfectly correct. It is true that Spain's response to this is also correct. The alternative was briefly addressed by Professor Van der Bellen. He didn't support her, but he asked: Well, what happened to Bankia? So we all learned this lesson: A big banking house to let the stream go down, we can't afford that a second time. So this is a new highlight of the crisis in Europe around the euro. ==References====External links== June will be exciting all the time. However: Hope last dies, ladies and gentlemen. Surveys say that 80 percent of Greeks want the euro. Perhaps these 80 percent will then also be of the opinion that without a savings package it will not go, and therefore do not want the radical anti-Europeans, but the two parties of the centre, as many mistakes as they have made. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Petzner.]] Greece was, after all, socially democratically ruled by PASOK at the time of the decision to enter the eurozone in the late 1990s. Perhaps these 80 percent give the rash and do not have the right to standard & poor’s, which mean that with a probability of 3 : 1 Greece is no longer in the euro zone. One thing I'm saying: It includes solidarity, of course also with the Greeks, but it also includes reason and the safeguarding of one's own interest – our Austrian, also German interest – and that is, in the opinion of the vast majority of experts, Greece should remain in the euro zone, should be held there. The negotiations have been conducted, the savings path is decorated, that is feasible. It's actually the Greeks themselves, we know. And then it goes on almost seamlessly: This summit on 28/29. It is not a European summit like others in June, because there must be a change in the direction of the Fiscal and Banking Union, and Barroso is already quite right. With regard to Eurobonds: Let us not stylize the Eurobonds into something that can be of great help in the next two or three years. Preparation for a responsible introduction of Eurobonds takes at least five years. In this case, it is not a yes or no, it is not a question of whether or not it is a question of preparing it properly and creating the necessary conditions for it. And then at the end of this phase you can probably say yes to the introduction of Eurobonds under certain conditions – but not now, but then. We all want to bring Europe to growth – Günter Stummvoll has already pointed this out – yes, but not to pump, because that would very quickly lead us back to field one where we have been before: Public debt crisis. What are we gonna do about the debt? – savings programmes. So growth rate yes, but not on pump. One thing we must already be aware of, my dear Ladies and gentlemen: If it comes to this Fiscal and Banking Union – and there is probably no alternative if we want to receive the euro as a single currency, and we want to do so – then this will ultimately have to do with a transfer of competence to Brussels, which we have not yet introduced in recent years. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ing. Höbart.]] Budgetary sovereignty, the sovereignty of the Member States, everything beautiful and good, but then there is a lot of power transfer, because otherwise monetary union will not have this security and this stability that we want. Put both on the scales, I tell you: I am a stable monetary union with a lot more responsibility in Brussels – and Brussels is ultimately us, we are a Member State, we are Europe – rather than when the euro goes down the stream at enormous cost and enormous damage, as you repeatedly provoke from the Freedom Party. [[Abg. Ing. Höbart: But she's not stable anymore!]] [[Abg. May. Stefan: It's not stable anymore!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e15991	Mr Mag. Widmann is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e16012	Madam President. High house! [[The speaker places a sign with the title “Faithful! ” in front of him on the speaker’s desk.]] I join my previous speaker, Martin Bartenstein: If we want to maintain the euro as a peace instrument for the longer term, then we will have to think about how to structure it in the future, what instruments are used and who will be involved in it above all. [[Abg. May. Stefan: Peace instrument?- Oh, my God!]] We also need to think honestly about this in order to make the debate more difficult. I am glad that we are having a debate on the Euro crisis in the afternoon, but late on, because in the media we can only read more about the government's occupations in the National Bank or in the Constitutional Court or about the Causa Graf. But the problem in this country, in this Europe, is actually the euro crisis, and we will have to talk about it seriously. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I should like to remind you, especially the representatives of the government parties, that the euro was a political, wanted experiment. At the time, all the experts have said that the euro, as it is designed, is likely to suffer shipwreck, and you yourself have managed to do so today, and we are facing this shipwreck today. Our clubman Josef Bucher pointed this out two years ago: If we continue in this way, Greece will not be able to keep up in the Euro-Union. – We are facing this discussion today, and the same picture is happening for Spain or Italy. Mrs Finanzminister, I really admire your courage and express my express recognition that you once said the truth that you said: If Italy breaks, it will become difficult, then it will also be included. – But you just went back one step and apologized. I think it would be more apologising to the Italian head of government Mario Monti, because it must be possible in Europe to express our opinion freely and discuss things that we are paying for. One thing cannot be: on the one hand, to use a rescue shield on the one hand, on the part of Italy, and to prohibit us as a payer, as a net payer, as a guarantee, as a prisoner. There will certainly be no such thing with us from the BZÖ! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, now to the ESM itself: What's the ESM? – This is translated “European Stability Mechanism”, but in reality it is a “European debt mechanism”. We are distributing the debt to the strong economies, some of which still have money or some loans, from the poor countries that have not managed properly, in order to settle the debts of the others. That can't go well in the long run. Put a lazy apple in a basket of healthy apples. What's going to happen? - Everyone's gonna get lazy. And we have the same situation here at the Euro debate. And the ESM Treaty – all those who have read it know it – is truly a binding treaty of the Member States that participate. There is, for example, inside: The sum of €700 billion is the capital stock – de facto it is 500 billion. Who's gonna fix that? Then, in Article 8 of the ESM Treaty – a division that is deeply contrary to me – stands: ‘ESM members commit themselves irrevocably and unreservedly to contribute to the approved parent capital (). They comply with all capital abru-fen () in time." – Thus irrevocable, unlimited and timely! There are deadlines in there, within seven days we have to pay there! Then someone from Brussels calls and says: Please, we need a couple of billion more!, and Austria has to stand straight for it – liability or payment. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, this ESM Treaty is an absolute bulwark because it is not limited to the top, it must also be said. Article 10 of this Treaty states that stock capital can be increased – and can be increased infinitely. This means that the ESM Treaty, if it does not show the effect – and for two years the lifeguard has not been the effect – is a financial euro bomb. That means we pay more and more in, and the real purpose of the whole is not achieved – quite the contrary. That is why we have one summit after another at European level. § 27 Immunity – has already been addressed. They can switch and operate there as they want. That is, the ESM cannot complain itself as a member country, but the ESM can complain to others. Where are we?- Oh, my God! No right of enforcement by the ordinary courts, no right of access by Parliaments, no right of enforcement by the administrations. That's what I'm asking myself: Do the laws for this ESM still apply at all? These are the basic questions that should be asked as a Democrat, because these basic requirements are really not met here. That is to say, the ESM is actually a gag treaty for all European households, for the national parliaments and in fact without legitimacy, because it was never voted on – there was no referendum, there will be no one. It is made easy without asking if the citizens want it. And the citizens do not want this because they have already paid enough, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Setting up a contract without the legitimacy of the citizens to set up a contract in order to avoid existing European contracts – no-bail-out clause – is really cockbled because you don't know what to do anymore. That is why we say: We've already paid enough! We have assumed a liability of 19.5 billion for Greece's aid, a total of 2.3 billion for the predecessors of the Euro Rescue Screen, and we are about to enter the ESM. Then the following is added: The taxpayer is liable, rescued Marode Banks and Marode States, and the Marode Banks who get the money do not have to join. They may voluntarily undertake to help with the ESM. But at least the taxpayers have to be held liable – he is not asked at all, he has to be held responsible for it anyway. That is to say, this ESM Treaty is in reality a free letter for money destruction without control, without Parliament's participation and a demise of Austria, where Austria is in reality only the spar for German and French banks and for Pleitelands on this continent. The ESM Treaty paves the way for a financial union, a way to a centralist Europe. This may still be the case with social democracy, the socialists. I wonder, however, whether this is also true of the bourgeois and freedom-loving people of the People's Party. However, I dare to doubt their efforts to promote more democracy, which could also be discussed at this point. That is why we demand that we think about the instruments that will be used. We believe that these are the wrong instruments. We call for an immediate stop to payment for this ESM, including Greece, because there are no guarantees, such as Finland has already created in this area. And we believe that we need the money for urgent future investment – whether in the field of science, education or research and development – in this country itself, because Austria has already paid enough.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e16079	Mr Dr. Strutz is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e16100	Madam President. High house! I would like to start by referring to the comments made by two previous speakers. The honourable Member of the ÖVP was today very open and honest – revealingly honest – when he meant that we were very "blue-eyed" when it came to assessing the actual development of the euro at its introduction. In other words, the honourable Member has admitted a mistake very openly here – that is nothing bad. The question is: Has the ÖVP, has this federal government learned from this mistake? Will you correct your path, which you have called blue-eyeed today, or will you continue? If you have heard the answers of Mrs Bundesminister, I am rather pessimistic that you have learned from these mistakes of the past. Martin Bartenstein also came out here and meant there was no alternative. If I hear this statement, I'm already asking the question: Have we not reached a point where, as a democrat, at least one should think about alternatives, let us consider whether what one has done in the past has perhaps been wrong, perhaps has been wrong, rather than always being subject to the dictatorship and the requirements of Brussels? [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] There I am at my colleague Krainer von der SPÖ. He has rightly stated: We from the Social Democratic Party want more Europe. - Quote Krainer. The liberals want less Europe. That's exactly what distinguishes these two political groups. You from the SPÖ are actually fulfilling the dictatorship from Brussels, you want even more rescue shields, you want to hand over more tax money to the indebted states, while we say: Less Europe! Fewer rules of origin in our sovereignty! We say: More Austria! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr Krainer rightly acknowledged this: The Social Democrats represent the interests of Brussels, we want to represent the interests of the Austrians from FPÖ. I would also like to say one thing to you: If the Austrians were told before the introduction of the euro that they would be liable for, guarantee, and pay for the debts of other countries in the future – because our money, which we took over on liabilities, has disappeared from our budget and will no longer be available for us Austrians – then I can guarantee you one thing: The vote for this euro would certainly be different. That's what we blame you, Mrs. Federal Minister. The facts are on the table, and you are afraid of the Austrian population. A decision as far-reaching as the introduction of the European Stability Mechanism, which de facto undermines our democratic system, because we parliamentarians no longer have the opportunity to decide on our budget, such a fundamental change, such a fundamental cut in the Austrian constitution, is to be presented to the people! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We liberals demand that you also involve the Austrians in these important decisions. They do not represent the interests of the Austrians. They have not asked whether they want most of their tax money to go to Greece. You will not question them now if you go under the European Rescue Screen and finance other Pleite States, and you will not ask them if our State budget of Brussels will be ruled in the future and will no longer be decided here in the House. That is why an appeal on the part of the Freeman: We are, in fact, asking you to think again about the decision on this ESM! With the ESM, we support incompetent states with a system of automation, and we will thereby withdraw our citizens from generations of resources that we ourselves urgently need for our social system, for our social network. We are going to put our citizens before a tear test. We can no longer get our infrastructure in order, and we will no longer be able to provide the necessary resources for youth, for their training, because you want to make the money available in an automation to save other countries. We don't want that from the FPÖ. We want the Austrian population to be involved in this area. And I'm asking you: What are you afraid of? Even if the Austrian population says a clear no to this way, it is your responsibility and your mission as Minister to represent the interests of the Austrians and not those of the bureaucrats in Brussels.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e16173	Now comes Mrs Mag. Muttons. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e16195	Madam President. High house! Mrs Fekter, before I come to the actual debate, I would like to thank you for your clear statements on women's policy at the beginning of the debate. [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter: Eben!]] [[Congratulations to representatives of SPÖ and ÖVP.]] The permanent women's disdainful and sexist statements of some of the BZÖ's representatives are not worthy of the deepest drawer and of this house. I just want to say that here. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Fekter says she's the only man in the government, and you say we're sexist?- Oh, my God!]] [[Abg. May. Worm: He hasn't understood it yet!]] – It is pointless for Mr Westenthaler. [[Further calls to the BZÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The economic problems and challenges we face in Europe are numerous, very complicated and difficult to understand. And surely the different and contradictory news that we are confronted with every day will also contribute to this. But one thing I don't think is helpful – or, better said, I'm sure it's not helpful – is the fear of the FPÖ. It ultimately contributes significantly to the uncertainty of the population and does not solve it. This is not responsible and it is easy to do, ladies and gentlemen. The question is: How do we want to deal with these difficult challenges? And the temptation is, of course, great to look into the past with an enlightened view. And then it is likely to be overlooked that the world has changed considerably in the last 17 years, i.e. since we have been with the EU, and has irrevocably changed. The European countries, and only quite a country with economic and export orientation like Austria, are today involved in such a intertwined structure as it has never been in this strength. And in this we compete with markets such as China, India, Brazil or South Korea. Ladies and gentlemen, if under these new conditions we want to maintain our independence, but also our economic strength and our high-quality social system, then we can only negotiate with our European partners and seek solutions. A look at the economic figures also shows that Austria has benefited from the Community as hardly any other country since its accession to the EU. The numbers are known to you. According to the WIFO, the EU brings Austria 21,000 new jobs each year. The EU has therefore contributed significantly to economic growth. The reason for this is that we have been able to triple our exports to the other EU countries since accession – triple, ladies and gentlemen! – 70 percent today. This ensures jobs of up to a million Austrians. And unlike you claim in your request, we have benefited from significantly lower inflation in Austria since the euro. This data makes it clear once again how important it is for us, how important it is for Austria that the euro remains and that we also receive the EU as a whole. That is, it does not help to look backwards, into the past, but it only benefits a clear and sober look forward. [[President Neugebauer shall take over the chairmanship.]] However, the problems of the euro zone lie mainly in their tough, lengthy and opaque decision-making structures. They prevent the euro area from reacting quickly and clearly to economic and financial events and creating mutual trust, but also to our economic partners. What we therefore urgently need is an extensive EU reform. This view is also the experts you quote in your request. We need better, stronger cooperation, and so do we. We are working with all due care on a stronger independence from the financial markets with the help of the ESM. We are working on a comprehensive growth and employment package to secure jobs. We are working on a reform of European banking and finance with a financial transaction tax and better control at the heart of this work. Ladies and gentlemen, we are working on this with emphasis on the welfare of people in our home country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e16291	Next speaker: Mrs Tamandl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e16312	Mr President. Mrs Finanzminister! Minister of the Interior! Ladies and gentlemen! We see how important Mr Klubobmann Strache is today's urgent question: Hardly has he made his speech in a market-screaming way, he is gone again! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Perhaps Mr Kickl can say to Mr Klubobmann that, after his speech, he should stay here so that he can hear what arguments the other political groups put to his urgent question. [[Call the FPÖ: What kind of problem do you have? Where's that stupid?]] On the subject of Paranoia, I would like to ask Mr Grosz what paranoia he had at the time when he felt so persecuted by his colleague, Faul, or when he said, for example, that if he did not come to the country day in Graz or Styria, he would vote out of politics. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: The difference is, Faul is no longer there!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: The difference is, Faul is gone!]] Mr Grosz, you could and should, when it comes to very important matters here, stay in the matter, even in your calls, because we do so in our calls and debates. [[Call:You too]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Kickl: Mrs. Tamandl, with which job on the electoral list did you register?]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Everything is treated!]] But it's up to you. I would like to remind you once again that if we are in a Community such as the European Union or monetary union, we must be in solidarity with the others. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Kickl.]] – We can then talk about it, Mr Kickl. However, solidarity with the other Member States who are in need of help also means simply complying with conditions. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grosz.]] The same ones who say that we cannot support the other Member States say that the Fiscal Pact, as it is now, cannot be implemented in any way, unless it is insane to stop the States from reducing their debts or making new debts. I believe that in Austria – and we have proved this; the opposition has, of course, had different opinions – we have done our homework. We have made reforms and we have shown responsibility, for example, in terms of debt brakes. None of the opposition parties has agreed to the debt brake so that it could have come to the Constitution or the constitutional rank because you are not at all able to assume responsibility for this country. [[Abg. Kickl: Good it was!]] You want to tell us again and again that you want to take responsibility for this country and also for the people, but you do not! And if we are committed to solidarity in a community, then we really have to confess it and then the Member States have to do their homework as well. One thing I have to ask – because today it has been said that the Greeks themselves have to take the plaster to the hospital, that everything is so terrible that they are not treated if they do not deliver the money before –: Mr Bucher, do you think it would be better if we did not get under the arms of the Greeks? [[Abg. Grosz: They don't hold the Greeks under the arms, but the banks!]] Do you think that people have not understood that the country has lived over its conditions with the measures it has taken in recent decades? – Tax collection has not taken place. The millionaires have fled to tax havens. There was no system at all that people knew they had to pay taxes for what they deserve. [[Abg. Grosz: And we only know that for two years?]] Many people here are always talking about property taxes, but the Greeks have not even paid the taxes they have to pay according to law. [[Abg. Grosz: And we only know that for two years?]] No, Mr Grosz, we have known this all the time. For this reason, we also say that the Greeks only get money if they fulfil the conditions that the lenders place. [[Abg. May. Stefan: This will change “basic” now!]] But it can't be the way you always want it to be: the poor Greeks! To populism: Both the FPÖ and the BZÖ operate a kind of populism, which has been precisely seen during the last Greek election, that – please? [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stefan.]] [[Abg. May. Stefan: The euro has broken Greece!]] – I would just like to say that populism has shown itself during the last Greek elections. [[Abg. May. Stefan: This is not a populism!]] Now there is a constellation that needs to be re-elected there, because people are so uncertain and do not know how to proceed. [[Abg. May. Stefan: Their export economy has collapsed!]] Mr Stefan! Why has the euro brought us so much, and why are we so well positioned in our export industry? [[Abg. May. Stefan: The wages have risen, they are no longer competitive!]] [[Abg. May. Stefan: But their export economy is broken! I'm talking about Greece!]] Why has this brought us half a million jobs, and why have the Greeks not been able to rise there? – Because they simply did not do their homework and have things sleep in areas where we are Austrian world champions. [[Interim calls at the FPÖ]] That's why the Greeks and the Spaniards, and what they all call, have to do their homework. Mr Kickl, on what you have previously proposed and on the subject of electoral list: [[Abg. Kickl: Just a question!]] I would like to ask you to show me also the signed statement by Mr Graf. I got them with me, mine's right. You can also show it to me in the couloir. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e16607	Next speaker: Mr Grosz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e16629	High house! Mrs Muttonen! Mrs. Tamandl! Mrs Muttonen has said in our direction that we have expressed se xismic accusations. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: That's incredible!]] Did I hear that? And my colleague Tamandl thinks I have Paranoia. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Tamandl.]] - Good, fine, too. Now I quote you – I don’t know, maybe that’s what’s missing from you – today’s front pages of the Austrian daily newspapers, “ÖsterREICH”, “Kurier”, “Kleine Zeitung”, “Kronen Zeitung”. There this Minister of Finance is quoted with the words: “I’m the only man in this government.” Colleague Muttonen, maybe have [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: This is sexist!]] You didn't read that. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] The history, good. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Muttons.]] By the way, because Mrs. Tamandl is apparently a hobby therapist, this is the accusation of schizophrenia. This is not paranoid, because Paranoia is the perplexity – this is in the second part of the sentence, because it goes on to say: “I know exactly how many people want me on the pile.” [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: That's incredible! You have to think of that!]] So in this Republic, someone wishes the Minister of Finance on the pile of failure. This is a schizophrenic world view, the classical persuasion, ladies and gentlemen! So there's no invention from me either. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Ask Mr. Rasinger to send out his doctor's books and explain the difference between Paranoia and Schizophrenia. But I do not think we should add to this debate with these medical considerations, it is enough for a Minister of Finance to go into the history of the Republic, but also in Europe, because she has publicly announced that Mr Juncker has kidney stones. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Worm]] Austria's financial policy is: Mr. Juncker has kidney stones! The beginning of Fekter's political path, which was, by the way, marked by fat caps, was that she is no longer "the Minister of Kieberei", but "the Minister of Finance". Thus began this tragedy, which is now finalizing in a Greek drama on this government bank. Dear Minister of Finance, feel free if you feel that you are a woman or a man, do it as you wish, it is not a political debate – but what the political debate says is that 28 billion € Austrian tax money is on a liability screen, of which we Austrian taxpayers will probably not see any more cents! I have brought something with me today – Mrs Finanzminister, perhaps you are so polite and listen to me, even if I may talk about a subject that is [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter speaks to Federal Minister Mag. Mikl Leiner]] She's only periphering – that's from the "Mitagsjournal" of the 15th century. June 2011, where you are quoted, by the way, in the O-tone: The Greek aid does not cost Austria a cent. At the time you said that, at the request of my party leader, Klubobmann Josef Bucher, who warned you in a urgent request about Greece's aid in 2011, of the way in which this Europe is taking, of what today fills the headlines: The euro is broken in three months. This has you, Mrs Finanzminister, which you still do not listen to me – but it may be the appreciation you give to the Austrian Parliament and to the parliamentarians, but also to the population. [[Between call of the Abg. Ing. Westenthaler.]] They are no different to the citizens of this country. That's what you've got on the 15th. ==References== Her predecessor said in 2010 that Greece's aid, the European liability shields, all this was a business! – That’s where the question arises – and this question is pressing: Who's this business for? I agree that this is a business, but it is neither a business for the Austrian taxpayer nor for the Greeks, nor for the Spaniards. It is for the international banks, which would almost be created by their own speculation losses, a business, a hasard game, financial policy Russian roulette, which they operate on the back of taxpayers! But you don't care either. Mrs. Tamandl – now you are thank God again – you stand out today and say that Greece is now a problem, but so according to the motto: Who could know? My interim question: Since when do you know? [[Abg. Tamandl: Longer!]] Yeah, it's been a long time. Those were your words right now. I am now quoting an Austrian politician from 1994 – perhaps you should turn your ears around: "If we use the money we have to pay in the EU as membership contributions for an annual tax reduction, then our businesses in Austria are much more competitive compared to the European Union than if we have to join and finance the non-profits in the south. () For using my money and the money of the diligent Austrians to compensate the Italian Mafiosi or some corrupt mayors in Greece, I am not available.” – Dr. Jörg Haider, 1994. What you have cheered, ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ and ÖVP! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] You have cursed Jörg Haider as a Quacksalber, as a polemist, as a dangerous person! 19 years ago, Jörg Haider, the BZÖ founder, foresaw what has now occurred and what is confirmed today: The euro is broken in three months! Jörg Haider also said: “Why should we finance Austrians, who, so to speak, adhere to law and order, with our net payments to the Schlendrian and the corruption in the south?” [[Abg. Hornek: Did Haider mean Carinthia?]] These words, this warning you have not heeded for 19 years and today you are facing the scrapping of your own national policy, where you are throwing €28 billion of Austrian tax money into the debt tower of the European Union and blaming this Parliament, all of this would be a business and cost us no cent. [[OBJECTIVES]] In a few months you will have to face the Austrians in order to tell them that their currency is no longer worth any more and that after 1930 people in that country are facing the ruins of a so-called hard currency reform in that country. And instead of putting yourself here in Parliament and sketching out what plans – that is, the question 2 of the urgent request, the petitioner – you have what you intend to do in September or October of this year, when this European currency actually goes down the stream, whether you provide food marks, whether you are reintroducing schilling again, you are hiding today and withdraw on flat-rate points: This is all a business, you will see, give it a rest!, and smile at it. [[Abg. Rädler: “Bären-Taler” we introduce!]] Ladies and gentlemen! This is not a responsible policy in the interests of the Austrians at the height of a crisis. Josef Bucher has just said it today, and I am extending the proposals: There are very few ways out of this crisis. The first way is to stop payments immediately from the EU's marode states, which are just ahead of the pleite. The second is: immediate stop of payment also of EU member contributions. How can we get our sour money into a system that has long been caught by a virus and will end in a disaster in a few months, where the Austrians do not even know how to pay their wages and salaries again: in Forint, Schilling, Dollar, Franks or in Gold, Food Brands or Milk Packs? In this situation, we are! And the third is, and this is the crucial question: Either we go out of the euro or the pleite countries go out of the euro, but both will not work. It is not going to happen that we continue to be in a euro area with the Pleite countries and continue to spend our tax money on bank packages of these dirty speculators in these pleite countries, while at the same time not knowing how we can clean up the state budget. There are only two options: Either they go or we go. But one has to express this in this openness. In this situation in which we are in, the brains of this Parliament must also be used in this House and the discussion about it must also be held: Where is the trip going after September 2012? Now we know everything's broken. The Minister of Finance has successfully suppressed this in her own way over the last two years, she still believes that it is all a business and does not cost a cent. However, there must also be reasonable political forces in this House in Austrian politics, which are talking about what this whole system will look like in three months. A Minister of Finance, who comes from one fat nap to the other and when she passes over yesterday, still the Italians, because she makes a false remark, will cost a few million euros, so Italy is not able to trust such a Minister of Finance in this situation because of her careless comments that I have already raised today.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e16812	Next speaker: Deputy Grazauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e16833	Mr President. Mrs Federal Minister for Finance! Mrs Federal Minister for Justice! [[Abg. Dr. Bartenstein: Interior, but don't do anything!]] [[It is only Federal Minister Dr. Fekter and Federal Minister Mag. Mikl- Leitner present.]] High house! As a merchant, I have to say, actually, it's a pity around the time. After all, it is of no use: Whatever the opposition to proposals is put forward here, the Federal Government will remain on the euro route to date and will only follow what the Brussels Eurocrats buy. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It's like giving alcohol to an alcoholic who wants him to get well again and again, as long as he's dead. The same will happen to the euro. Not even the IMF believes that the euro will survive, and has announced the end of the euro for autumn this year. The greatest achievement of this century, it is always said, is that the euro, the EU currency, is becoming the greatest flop of all time. The Sweden, the Danes, the English, the Poles, the Swiss – they all do not have the euro and will be very happy about it today, because they are much better. The Luxembourg Prime Minister Jean-Claude Juncker is right in one, if he says that Europe needs a common currency in the future. This is all right, because we must stand with the United States, China and other major economic powers in the future. However, he did not say that this only works if the economies have comparable sizes. Otherwise, this story doesn't work. It is known for centuries that the southern euro countries do not perform the same performance as the Central European and Northern European countries. Climate, mentality, commitment to performance are just talking about it. It would be irresponsible, ladies and gentlemen, and also stupid to continue with the transfer south to the Sankt-Nimmerleins day. Some of the Eurocrats in Brussels have a false vision here that they want to enforce by all means through the elimination of democracy and the rule of law. Ladies and gentlemen, we must resist it with all our strength before it is too late! Civil resistance is a duty of citizenship on this issue. That is why we urgently demand a referendum for Fiscal Package and ESM. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Austria and the other net payers are certainly not able to finance all the Marod PIIGS countries and Italy in the long run, and it is also a large community to spend the heavily earned money of Austrian taxpayers. Our liabilities and loans for the euro rescue are already in place – listen! – 63 billion €! That is, the federal revenues of one year have already been pledged, and that is a scandal! Austrian government sends money to Greece, reduces social benefits in its own country, saving package follows savings package – this is a totally wrong policy! We have already heard several times today that the Federal Ministers and also the Federal Minister Pröll have said that Greece's aid is a great business. Mrs. Federal Minister, how stupid do you think the Austrians? They know for a long time that we don't have to get the Greeks back and write them down. In the meantime there are not 1.2 billion, but 6 billion €! This money could be used to build many kindergartens, to build schools, to support nursing places, to support the federal army, and so on. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It's just a joke, ladies and gentlemen, that we send money to Greece so that the Greeks can pay oversized military expenditure. The so-called Euro success story is also responsible for the fact that the Greeks today have pleaded and the economy has broken. Now Spain is to be saved in Greece, and Italy is already at the door to getting money. Why does a successful project like the euro actually need a rescue action? I've been wondering that for a long time. Rescue shield follows rescue shield, it is becoming increasingly expensive for Austria. The success system must be in great need, otherwise it would not have to be saved. Let us look at the financial needs of the Marod countries, and there has been a set-up of the EU. – Loans due by 2013: Ireland 12 billion, Portugal 33 billion, Greece 86 billion, Spain 215 billion, France 365 billion, Italy 460 billion and with the forthcoming payments 1.5 trillion €. Ladies and gentlemen! That is a huge amount, and no state can stand for it. From my point of view, the Euro system is dead. When, ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ and ÖVP, do you stop informing the people wrong?- Oh, my God! When do you finally end the waste of money?- Oh, my God! Throw when You don't want our good money in a barrel without a floor?- Oh, my God! [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: So good money?]] We must also use 3 billion liabilities for these 100 billion, Mr President, which we are spending on Spain. Finally, admit that the path you have taken with the euro strategy so far is the wrong way and we have to get out of this dilemma! Better an end to terror than a terror without end, and our money to our people! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e16910	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Matznetter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e16931	Mr President. Ladies Federal Minister! Mr Graezeit should decide whether the euro is now dead or still good money. I just wanted to make a few comments after Mr Grosz has appointed himself a psychiatrist today. Others appoint themselves lawyers in electoral lists, you have arrived at the psychiatrist. I just wanted to warn you about a little thing: It is sometimes the case that the patient considers himself to be the psychiatrist, but not all external appearances must be a sign of disorder. [[Rejoicing]] The reason no one listens to you anymore may not be because you only imagine it, but it may simply not interest anyone anymore. That's also an imaginable variant. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Grosz: But you listened very well! After you deal with me, you've been listening to me!]] But after the more humorous or sad deposits: They quote Jörg Haider from 1994, but I don't know if he was such an Italian specialist or a Greek specialist. I don't know, you should ask. In the sloppy south, he might know himself, just: The consequences of the sloppy south in Austria were not only 28 billion. We are shivering in much larger amounts at the Hypo Alpe Adria, and we are not considering whether this – what did he propose? – Bear-Taler or perhaps instead of Maria-Theresien-Taler Dörfler or Scheuchler comes, but in reality the rest of Austria pays for the slutting in the south of that country chief whom you previously quoted. And maybe you should come at your own door before you oppose Greeks and others. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] But the key question is quite another one, and I am really grateful: In about five hours and 20 minutes ago, Mr Belakovich-Jenewein explained here what a crisis would result if the euro collapsed in autumn and asked the Minister of Social Affairs for hundreds of thousands of unemployed under Plan B. She's right. If that happened, the effect could be hundreds of thousands of unemployed more in our country. Therefore, all these advices, as they come, have been read from the leaf: Quit the transfer, don't agree to that, and what else came, absolute national madness, because it is – I simply explain – really good money, Mr Grastaur. [[Congratulation with SPÖ and ÖVP]] And in the moment we go here and close the borders and use the schilling here, we are exposed to speculation that we cannot intercept with our National Bank. Nor are we in the situation of the Swiss Bundesbank that we can spend up to 10 billion francs a month on support sales, just so that our industry does not collapse completely. You have colleagues from Vorarlberg! Ask how much Swiss production has already moved to Vorarlberg because they can no longer produce! And what the colleague stupidly held out to you, namely the study of the German Federal Government, which would be uplifted if there were only a northern euro, would happen with the schilling and a D-mark as well. That would be a disaster in the present situation! We have 0.5 percent growth. Then there would be the 100 000 unemployed! Stop yelling that nonsense! We must try together to preserve the achievements of this European Union, of the internal market and of the single currency. And yes, the Austrians voted in two-thirds in 1994 for a Union that had already been planned at the time to make payments for structural improvements in southern Europe, but also in Eastern Europe. [[Abg. New builder: But no liability!]] Where did our companies export? Billions have flown! It was our construction companies that built the motorways, it was the money that our economy has gained, where the salaries of our people have been paid, which you are jealous of! But they got the orders because they work well, our businesses. But they need a larger market, because in Carinthia they can no longer build, they are already pleading, we have heard that before. So where is it going to take place? – On a single market. And the Austrian companies are mostly SMEs, who cannot maintain a treasury and speculate with the currencies. In the case of a small currency, these are delivered to each exchange rate change. You've never heard of it like that. For small companies, the schilling was a disaster! He couldn't make price assurance. In the moment the person concerned crossed the border with a contract, he was exposed to the risk of bankruptcy. The common currency has benefited them in such a way that it would really be the stupidst to question this single currency. And that's why your contribution here is no more valuable. The euro is more valuable. Thank you, Mr Grastaur.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e17039	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Schools. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e17060	Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen! Today we have the opportunity to discuss the euro, as we did not have it in the quality for a long time – the Federal Ministers in a clarity and clarity that one can be grateful that we have it, the opposition in a really embarrassing performance of dustlessness, of missing proposals. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Van der Bellen is never substanceless!]] And the really interesting point is... – Mrs. Glavischnig, why are you excited? [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Van der Bellen substanceless? That's a joke!]] Just listen to me! It was striking today that the opposition has clearly declared itself. There has been an opposition that has done its work as an opposition, and there has been a party that has not been in opposition today but has clearly contributed to the common position. And I just wanted to say that. I was pleased to hear clear words from the Lord. Listening to Van der Bellen – not only because he praised the Federal Minister, what was very well done to him, and also the Minister of the State, I think, has done well, but simply because what he said in the matter was indeed carried by a great wisdom and was quite interesting. I would like to point out that today our colleague Cap gave a speech. Except for a single word that I might put forward differently, I would sign that speech. The word “justice” may have been of little help in this regard, I would have replaced it with “performance”. [[Abg. May. Gaßner: Oh, that's it?]] Then I would really have felt the whole speech was very neat. The tension is: This debate on the euro shows us, which is a very deep, very real issue, a real challenge that calls for us in the substance of parliamentary work, that this can be properly discussed. The really exciting thing about this European euro crisis is for me: Are countries able to make decisions for their own economic, social and social future in such a way that they can also finance their services in the social field without debt? [[Abg. May. Stefan: They don't need that anymore! That's the system change you agree to!]] The problem for Greece is that just because the people's representatives with extreme populism have forgotten that you first have to achieve what you spend. [[Abg. May. Stefan: On the contrary, you forget!]] The problem is that, obviously, even now in this election, the left-left opposition, the total populism was chosen and thus was clear: This country is getting out of refinancing. This has occurred to the people of Greece, and now there will be another choice. I hope that there is a sufficient number of those who strengthen their democracy in such a way that they can also make decisions that are unpleasant. The real challenge for Europe is: Will we be able to make joint decisions that will lead us back to what we finance on our own initiative, which will allow us to be content with what we can finance from performance, from innovation, from our labour force and from our technical services? – This means that we first have to learn to deal with less debt. [[Abg. May. Stefan: Do you want the transfer union?]] This also means that we can make our investments in such a way that growth becomes possible. It's not that heavy a cure when you think about it. It is difficult, however, to be a populist opposition party in such a Community action. [[Abg. May. Stefan: Do you want a transfer union? Do you think it's right if one guarantees the debt of the other?]] It is unfortunate that in the Austrian Parliament the destruction is obviously put before the common and strong future in Europe. It is a pleasure that the parties, who are obviously state-bearing and Europe-bearing, show on this question that they trust their voters with democratic maturity. The very decisive thing is: Are we able to explain these changes and needs to our voters? – For one thing is quite certain: We will only continue if the ESM can actually work properly. We will only continue if we follow common rules and objectives. And we will probably have to experience that there are also sanctions and restrictions for those who want to leave these paths through populist errors. [[Abg. May. Stefan: What way do you have to leave with the Transfer Union?]] It will be that Europe can be strong – but only if we follow common rules disciplined. [[Abg. May. Stefan: This is the system change you make! They are fundamentally changing the Treaty!]] This path must be taken in the near future, to decide and finally to implement it. Ladies and gentlemen! Clear words in these times do well. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! It is also good for one or another from abroad to hear what is said about him. We have good goals, we have a legitimate hope because we act out of responsibility. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e17205	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Westenthaler. 1 minute remaining speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e17226	There must be a special naughtiness and a special derailment of a socialist representative, because some people from Carinthia also sit in front of the television screens, but from there there are also some Members in this House. Mr Matznetter, you have here from the speaker's desk a whole federal state, namely the federal state of Carinthia, as - I quote - the sloppy south, and the federal state of Carinthia is the same as the states in Greece. I would like to point this out in the sense of the Carinthian population! [[BZÖ and FPÖ are welcome.]] This is a joke, Mr Matznetter, a naughtiness, a sourry, a community towards the Carinthians! Excuse me!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e17265	Mr Matznetter spoke in favour of an actual correction. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e17290	Mr Westenthaler just claimed from here that I had called Carinthia a sloppy south. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Is everything in the record!]] [[Abg. Grosz: Did you do it!]] I'm actually correcting: I have replicated on a quote from the deceased Jörg Haider, who has brought MP Grosz, over the sloppy south and then put out that the 28 billion are not enough for the debts of the Hypo-Alpe-Adria. [[Abg. Grosz: About Greece and Italy!]] [[Abg. Grosz: About Greece and Italy!]] [[Abg. Grosz: About Greece and Italy and not Carinthia!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e17415	Mr Westenthaler! For this conscious expression of ‘cleanness’ and ‘breakiness’, I give you a call for order. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: I accept it with pride!]] No one is reporting on this. I therefore conclude the debate. [[17:36:03]] The continuation of the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e17452	We take the negotiations on the 3rd. Agenda item again. Mr Deputies has been reported on the floor. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e17476	Mr President. Ladies Minister! Minister of State Defense! High house! The topic of deactivation of firearms: This law is completely unforgivable and bleak. Nevertheless, it was uncommentably blessed and won out by the ladies and gentlemen of Red and Black in the Committee. Our request for the BZÖ's request to postpone the deliberations in order to obtain further information as a basis of assessment was also quickly strangled. This confirms, again, that the SPÖ and ÖVP MEPs are only complaining executioners of their ministers. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Ladies and gentlemen, all this means that a sensible law will be avoided in the approach. That is why we will support the request for referral back. Ladies and gentlemen, this novel has serious shortcomings. The novelle is contrary to the current legal status. Now, owners of weapons already excreted and deactivated from the federal army are being criminalised. It's a horrendous thing! This failed government is involving people with unnecessary administrative penalties. The owners of firearms that have long been rendered unusable, no longer ready to use, are being punished. This is more than embarrassing by this government. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The owners shall be punished if they do not have their weapons marked by professional bodies within a certain period of time. Only this process in the law is completely covered and has to be deleted. The expected additional administrative burden must also be rejected. Ladies and gentlemen, we note: For a reasonable law is also lacking the heavy war equipment such as cannons or tanks. There's a suspicion that in the defence department, it has been specifically refrained from taking heavy weapons in the legislative text. This will allow the Bunkermuseum at the Wurzenpass to fight from your resort, Mr. Minister, on a sustainable basis, as it currently looks. Here, the situation in the dispute over the museum is completely misjudged. In the course of the committee debate, we have tried by the BZÖ to find an optimal solution for these installations from the defence of space. The aim is: These plants must be preserved for the afterworld. These are intended to serve as a reminder for future generations, a relic or a symbol from a time when life in freedom in Europe has not yet been so self-evident. The public interest in The Bunkermuseum is preserved at any rate. You, Mr Federal Minister, have given full support in the Committee for the preservation of the Bunkermuseum in the present state. The BZÖ will At the word! From us comes a clear yes to the Bunkermuseum am Wurzenpass and the repeated sharp rejection of false rules for deactivation of firearms.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e17534	Next speaker: Deputy Duster. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e17558	Thank you very much, Mr President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear colleague List! These claims you made at the outset do not vote in favour of Weitem, and I must strongly reject them, because we want to establish a legal certainty with the novelle to these two laws, which is not present at the moment. [[Abg. List: It is!]] You know that very well, and we don't want to talk about it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] As far as the Wehrgesetz is concerned, the revision is simply necessary, because there are many events of the federal army to which external guests also come, who are able to examine the military and war equipment there and, of course, to test it in the face of trained personnel. This has not yet been the subject of a proper regulation. This law creates clarity here. The second amendment to the Arms Act 1996 is also an important one. This is about deactivation of war material, firearms. There has also been an unclear legal situation, and with this innovation this uncertainty will also be eliminated. For me as a Carinthian MP, it is of course natural that I also say something to the Causa Bunkermuseum at the Wurzenpass. I think, ladies and gentlemen, that we too from the Carinthian SPÖ are behind this project, as are all the other parties represented in the country day in Carinthia. Now only! This is an important thing for Carinthia, for the community and, of course, for the country too, for all of them. It would have been possible to understand the public interest by the country of Carinthia, that Mr Kärntner's head of state, Dörfler, could have found a solution with Mr Darabos, the Federal Minister, who had put his hand to him here. He didn't want it, he refused. I think that in this case, our Minister of State is quite willing to find a solution. In the interests of both, in the interests of the operator as well as in the interest of the federal government, I seek to find a common solution as soon as possible so that this important investment for our youth, for the history of time, can continue to exist for the whole of Austria. Mr Federal Minister, I would also like to continue to ask for your outstretched hand in this causa so that we can reach a friendly agreement as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e17601	Next speaker: Mr Kunasek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e17623	Mr President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! We liberals, of course, see it a little differently, Mr. Duster. What we are experiencing here today is nothing but a continuation of one, I say now, extermination policy as far as the Bunkermuseum is concerned. We are guaranteed that we will not play with the liberals – not only the Carinthians, but, of course, the whole group. We are opposed to this procedure and will therefore also make an amendment and an additional proposal today. I should like to ask the President to distribute it accordingly. Because of the length of this request, I will only address two key points. [[Quoted print version removed]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, that was the brief discussion of this request. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! But I also say quite openly – in order to return to the Bunkermuseum again – I congratulate Mr. Chief of Staff on this matter, the Federal Minister, you will receive this information addressed to you from 4. May 2012 yes – I think I clearly draw the right conclusions from this painful matter when, among other things, he notes that the Bunkermuseum has been officially and for years supported by the BMLVS, if he now finds that the complaint of the BMLVS is now another far-off act, with the question to the Federal Minister: who is it useful, what is the desired final state, and is to be given here a contemporary testimony of the ÖBH?, and then, in his summary and recommendation, very clearly, I quote: In fact, Mag. Scherer has been threatened for more than a year in his existence by activities from the BMLVS. The action may be annihilationary. In order to prevent the worst and not to harm the BMLVS, the head of the General Staff proposes the following recommendation: first, the most prior withdrawal of the action, second issue of a decision on the reliability of Mag. Scissor. - Quote. Ladies and gentlemen! I call on all the Members here in the House not to take part in this game and bring about a proper solution. Mr Federal Minister, you are called on here to finally find a solution with leadership, with leadership, for all those involved, who also have to be within the meaning of the Bunkermuseum!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e17695	The request set out in its core points was distributed and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e17917	Next speaker: Mr Höfinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e17939	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I am just listening, our speaking time has already been very advanced. I am therefore going to be brief, but I would like to clarify a little because the discussion has gone very emotionally and overly overly, or because some of the wrong contents have been spitted out. On the one hand, and these are sober facts: When it comes to the collection of war material, it is important for me to hold still – for everything else has already been explained – that it is not about hunting or hunting weapons or sportsmen not affected. Everything else, as it has been explained, should work effectively in the future under this scheme. To the second content: When it comes to the possibility of taking part in events of the Austrian federal army, where weapons or equipment can be used in part, legal certainty will finally be created. There were gray areas in the past, they are abolished. In this case too, there will be a practical provision. That's why I'm asking: We should not overrun the content and discussion. Let's leave the emotions a little outside, let's not complicate this issue, and let's not insecure people outside! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e17972	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Steinhauser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e17993	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Minister! You know that this draft law is overwhelming, because if you take your draft literally, then in the future civilians could hold loaded assault rifles in their hands. I know it's not planned, but theoretically as we decide today, it's possible. But on the topic of events and German army: That's a keyword for me to add another topic to you again. This is the question of the demarcation of federal army events on events of veteran associations. You know, we've made a short debate in which we've already discussed this. We also agree that you are quite committed. But we still see the need for action. Not too long ago in Gniebing, Styria, such a veteran event took place again. This veteran event is called “Crete Thoughts”. I think you are historians; that is, I suppose at “Crete” you have the right associations: These were serious war crimes of the Wehrmacht. In this “Creta-Think” one has pulled the emergency brake on the part of the Federal Government at the last minute and has said that the German army should not participate. That's what I'm Of course, it went wrong: The German army was on site immediately and was marched by Gniebing along with these veteran associations. I want to give you a picture from 2010 and illustrate what is happening there. [[the speaker holds a picture towards the Federal Minister Mag. Darabos]] On the one hand, on the other hand, there are several German army soldiers and on the other hand there is a proud Ritterkreuz-Orden-Träger. As a historian, you know what the Knight's Cross is. That was originally the order that Adolf Hitler himself handed over, later he did not do it himself, but it was, as it were, the Order of Adolf Hitler. So, they're side by side here. They also know that this is not actually covered by the existing legal situation. I suppose you know the traditional tradition. After the traditional decree, such insignia is prohibited at federal military events, and if there are no federal military events, you know that after the traditional decree, the German army may not occur at events of veteran associations of the Wehrmacht. Nevertheless, it happened in 2010, it happened in 2011, and it happened in 2012. I believe that we need action, and I assume, in principle, that we are quite of the opinion that a sharp border should be drawn. The Austrian army has nothing to do with the traditional care of the Wehrmacht. We are therefore proposing the following resolution: The National Council wants to decide: "The Federal Minister of State Defense and Sport is invited to adopt a regulation and to publish in the German Federal Law, which prohibits military officers of the military station and military officers of the reserve stand from participating in events in uniform form, including associations or associations of troops or members of the former German Wehrmacht, as well as other organizations of state or party of the Nazi dictatorship between 1933 and 1945. Furthermore, this Regulation also prohibits the insignia of the Federal Army at events of such associations or associations, as well as the involvement of insignia of such associations or associations, their reproductions and other symbols of the Nazi dictatorship at the military celebrations and events of the Federal Army.’ I assume once again that this is a fundamental consensus. We have only one problem, and this should be said, namely that in its current formulation tradition is not sufficient and revised, or on the other hand, that a clear legal situation with this very specific regulation also strengthens the legal awareness among the soldiers concerned that there is a clear demarcation. Mr. Minister of Defense, your press spokesman, Hirsch, has still lamented that the Greens would somehow change political change by constantly seizing you, even though you see this in a similar way. It is not about political change at all, but we want you to follow a clear line as well. That is the essential point. And if you have this attitude, the line means: Revision of tradition and a clear legal situation. That's our concern. This is not against you at all, but in principle this is nothing but an attempt to help a concern that you represent to break through because you are obviously reluctant to take clear steps for any reason. I can give you the picture, because I think the picture illustrates clearly where the problem lies. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e18087	The motion for a resolution tabled is being discussed. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e18154	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Darabos. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e18175	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to forward two things to today's occasion to adopt a law – I am pleased that two laws in Parliament are being passed today –: Mr. Dr. Fichtenbauer – I am probably both of us now – we are quite far from each other ideologically and politically, just as the sun is probably from the earth, but I appreciate you as an expert and chairman of the National Defense Committee. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Fichtenbauer]] Nevertheless, I think you're wrong today. It is an improvement to bring about by this law. It is a step towards those who are weighed down by the federal army, who have to deal with weapons in associations and where the Federal Government wants to create legal certainty, and also, if you so want, a step towards more civil service. Before I come to the details, a word about the Greens. Mr Steinhauser, I share your opinion and I am happy to accept your support. [[Abg. May. Steinhauser: Then let's do it!]] But what has bothered me – and therefore I am somewhat sad that this debate has been torn by the urgent question, which is, of course, legitimate here in the House – is your colleague's speech and her accusation that I would not do anything against neo-Naziism and against sexism in the federal army. So if you could put anything out of the question as to my position, I would think that these are both points. I'm going to follow every slightest hint in this area, and I'm inviting you to go this way along with me. So in that respect I am quite grateful for your suggestion, which I mean – that is only my personal assessment – that it would not be possible to do these incriminated things by the prohibition law on and off of you, namely to carry badges, the NS symbols are the same or the NS time. Second point: Security strategy. That too was blamed on me. Sorry, we have drawn up the security strategy in the government, we have decided unanimously in the government, it is in Parliament. Now and for yourself on the train. It has been in Parliament for over a year, and it would be nice if we were to put an end to the security strategy, because the now valid security strategy from 2001 – which can be disputed whether it is valid at all because it is – this is not a coalition break, because it is so decided by the ÖVP in the government, and I assume that Mr Spindelegger, the party chairman of the ÖVP, also has a certain meaning for you, Mr Linkovits, in the ÖVP, and that the Members who were present during the negotiation, and the Minister for the Interior, Mikl-Leiter, who has negotiated it, also play a certain role in the ÖVP. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Clickovits.]] I would therefore be pleased if this could finally be discussed and brought to an end in Parliament, because we need a new security strategy, only because of the changed framework conditions, especially because of the end of the Cold War, the end of every “vision” – under the lead sign – that a battle can occur in March. It would therefore be good for us not only to discuss this security strategy here in Parliament, but also to decide on it. But now to the actual draft law. With this law, we create a secure legal basis for the federal army's shooting events with civil partners – that is, civil service in the best sense – as for example – and this is a clientele that is certainly appreciated by your party – shooter associations. This is actually the background to this draft law. [[Abg. Dr. Fichtenbauer: That's only half the truth!]] That is why I do not fully understand the criticism. The shooting events will continue to be carried out on federal military courts with the Arms of the Federal Army under the guidance and supervision of the Federal Army's organs. And that's good. Second point: I also believe that it is indisputable – whether you think it is good or bad – that there is a private interest in the legitimate acquisition and possession of unused firearms and certain types of war material – in the term Small Arms or Light Weapons. With this law, we make it clear that the law is so equipped that there is legal certainty when you have such weapons. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Crist.]] I would like to say that heavy weapons – for this I stand at 100 percent; I come to the Bunkermuseum – like combat tanks or guns can be strictly separated from them. This area will continue to be subject to international standards in the future. On the other hand, if you continue to think about it, it could be that way; I don't think of it personally – that heavy war material becomes uncontrollable and, in the worst case, heavy war material like tanks could be used to drive through the area. We all don't want to. This is not in the sense of Parliament or of the citizen. That is why we have limited ourselves to this area of the Small Arms, and I am standing for that. We thus create legal certainty on the one hand for collectors and, on the other hand, for the entire population as a whole. I am convinced that, as far as my place is concerned, these novelles, which we are going to decide by a majority today – at least I assume – are also prepared in cooperation with the Federal Ministry of the Interior, in the areas of deactivation of war material and holding shooting events, now creates the clarity that has not existed to a sufficient extent for a long time. That is why I am proud that it has succeeded in bringing it through the National Defence Committee and making a decision today. The Bunkermuseum in Carinthia. Yes, Mr Liste, I am in favour of it, but one thing will not happen – I say that quite openly in the House –: They won't drive me into the abuse of office. I have to adapt to legal circumstances, and it is clear that this bunker museum, which exists near Arnoldstein, cannot be linked to this novel. I would also like to take the opportunity today to clarify some basic misunderstandings here. We have always tried from my side to bring about a solution. This solution was not really sought by all, not even by the exponents, of the active contributors in this Causa, the already addressed Colonel. This is an appropriate and legal solution, and from my side we have tried to obtain an exemption by entrusting a person other than the Colonel Scherer with the leadership of this museum, with the leadership of the support association, a person who is already active in this support association. This was refused by the operators. I have approached the country of Carinthia, which always tells the public how important this museum is. After all, there have been 22,000 visitors for a few years, i.e. 35 visitors per day in this museum. Nevertheless, I think it is a good idea to lead this museum there. We have thus approached the country of Carinthia, which decided unanimously, in the country day, that this should be carried on. It would not cost or cost the country Carinthia. Reaction: No, no, no, The country of Carinthia does not want to. I wonder why. The Black Peter is pushed to the Minister. Okay, I'll take note of that. In any case, I shall try to bring about a legal solution to this question. I am also pleased, Mr Kunasek, that you have such good connections in the General Staff and that the papers of the General Staff can also be read here at the speaker's desk. This is also an interesting experience for me, I say quite openly. It is true that I am already in favour of a solution, but not a solution that drives me into the criminal – I say quite openly here – but a solution where we together ensure that this museum can exist. I would ask that the country of Carinthia and the municipality of Arnoldstein also participate in it. In conclusion: I am pleased that we can decide on this law today. There is legal certainty for citizens, there is civil service for those who want to work with the German army in terms of shooting events. In this respect, I am already thanking myself in advance for the approval of this law.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e18248	Next speaker: Mr Christ. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e18270	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Federal Minister! High house! Among other things, the amendment to the Waffengesetz includes the creation of exceptions for private in the German army's shooting events in the 2001 Wehrgesetz. The existing legal uncertainty is to be solved. I would like to give two examples. On the one hand, the events of the Federal Government are like the annual performance show on the National Day. However, there are very public weapons and equipment presented by the Federal Government, and there is also a case by case way to gain a better and direct impression, for visitors to operate military weapons and equipment under the special supervision of trained military personnel, with full security of all those concerned. On the other hand, there is this legal uncertainty also at shootings of the German army with partners, the so-called sub-official or the officer shooting, for example in Alharting with me in the district, where civilians from the armed forces of the German army are shot at federal army courts, on federal army firearms under the guidance and supervision of federal authorities. These events, as the insiders know, serve as a means for weapons owners or passport holders to handle the necessary shooting performance – this is an obligation for active and retired staff – and then get the necessary and required confirmations for it. But this is also an important network care with a variety of people and organisations, such as Sagittarius Associations or partner companies, especially for the Federal Army. In legal terms, however, there is a case-by-case legal uncertainty as such measures are currently not sufficiently taken into account in the administrative legislation in the population and in the Federal Army. I therefore welcome this amendment, because it is precisely in this area that it creates legal clarity and legal certainty and can therefore continue to hold these events in the future. I'm asking for your consent.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e18309	Next speaker: Mr Haubner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e18330	Mr President. Mr. Minister! In fact, I just wanted to sum up briefly, but the Minister has asked me to say something more about security strategy. I believe that the government has only delivered the part of the analysis in the relationship, and it is up to us in Parliament to decide on the recommendations here. And if I may remind you, we have, of course, committed the obligation of military service in the Government Convention, and I think that on this basis we should take the relevant decisions here too. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Now on the subject: I also welcome this amendment on the basis of one point, because it has been true for ten years now that the Federal Ministry's desire for a clean legal provision for the non-use of weapons exists. So far, there has been no legal provision on the use of war material, so I think that this draft law finally creates a new category of weapons, which has not yet existed, that of the unusable firearms, and that is to be welcomed. So far, this concept of unusable war material was not present in the law. The whole novelle refers to the so-called Small Arms, i.e. to Faustfire weapons or rifles. This whole problem of the Bunkermuseum should, I believe, be dealt with quite emotionally, because the exhibits like Panzer et cetera, which are stored there, are not affected either. In this respect: Consent to this novel of the Weapons Act. On the subject of compulsory military service, however, we remain on the line. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e18379	Next speaker: Mr Köfer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e18400	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! We already have the talent to talk about things and to address them, which bring with them a certain peculiarity. On the one hand, we have the entire Arab region, which is in the process of breaking, we have the biggest economic crisis in history that we have to deal with, and we have centuries-old disasters on the agenda, but we are talking about a bunker museum – that's what it is supposed to be. As a regional parliament, you should and must also solve these tasks, and as mayor of a battalion site, I can only give the best witness about the Austrian federal army. The soldiers are well integrated, but they are also an important part of our economic, cultural, but above all in our sporting and social areas. Our soldiers now enjoy their high reputation not only because of the successful use of disasters in forest fires, storm damage, avalanches and so on, but they are mainly present in the public, and that is good. With the many possibilities our barracks offer again and again, for example at the day of the open door, the civilian population, especially our students, is offered the opportunity to handle the equipment, weapons and equipment, to get closer to it. And naturally there is also: The heavy war equipment is at the centre of interest. But there is also the popular guest shooting on the Marwiesen troop training ground, which attracts thousands of visitors every year. To date, however, the organizers moved in a legal grey area. That is why I welcome today's innovation. However, we must never ignore the fact that these often poorly-secured exhibits in museums – I know this from my own experience – are not toys, but that is a genuinely disabled war apparatus that every skilled bastard, if he wants, could refunction into such a device at any time. Therefore, there is also a need for some caution. I come briefly to the Bunkermuseum, theme of today. Rarely, however, the fact that the factions in the Carinthian Landtag agreed that this museum should continue. It is also a popular excursion destination. Austria needs these monuments, needs these monuments, but above all we also need Carinthia. They remind us of the time of the Cold War, when the neutral Austria still had to make its external security as a buffer between East and West. At the moment, however, the situation seems to be doing something. Unfortunately, the offer of the competent ministry or the Minister to the head of state was rejected. I therefore think it makes sense for the country of Carinthia to continue to support Mr Scherer as an operator so that the problem of non-existent safety certification can be solved. Mr Federal Minister, I know that you are still seeking a solution within the meaning of all those involved, and I hope that it will also come about.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e18452	Mr Fichtenbauer. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e18476	Federal Minister! I just wanted to say I'm always very interested in getting into good conversation with you. It is also always atmospherically perfect. I wonder who told you that you were in danger of being in the crime when this law is not made. With the human being or with this group of people, I would like to carry out a legal infight. I think that's a nonsense. It's unthinkable. That's nonsense because otherwise, criminalization has been a topic for 50 years. This is not new for God's sake, but it has been a custom of the army since the existence that war material is made unusable, disabled and sold out – or what I know what is done with it. I do not understand how the legal inadequacy is recognized as the basis of a need for legislation – I would have said something more strongly now. Whether Scherer means that, or not, is a nonsense. But cynicism, which has been developed by lawyers of your home because something wrong has been supplied to the shearer, and for this reason attaching to him the indebtedness, you cannot bring it into line with your social democratic conscience under any circumstances. I mean, maybe we're not ideologically as far apart as you mean. We are both grateful to the Constitution and to the observance of the laws. That's what I've been doing for 41 years. So where does this disparity come from? It is irresponsible that due to a misbehavior, because of a different delivery – unlike the one that was duly assigned – in the legal table, this is called an Aliud delivery – an indebtedness is attached to the recipient. That can't be true! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This could now be described with very sharp words. Then it was just a bureaucrat mistake; but the recipient who received the well-belief, therefore, to attach the unreliability, is constitutionally unthinkable, simply unthinkable. On the occasion of this story I do not want to make any big words; but imagine that this is happening in a very relevant other part – the Republic is on its head! Just because there was a wrong billing in a surgical department of the hospital, the surgeon would not know the reliability and he would no longer be able to operate – it can now be painted with the wildest fantasies, but it is not legally excessive to absurdity. It is a pity that such a thing occurs in the legal area of the administration you represent. In the strategy, we will see how it continues, but it continues. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e18531	No one is reporting on this. I'll close the debate. We shall proceed to the votes. We first come to the vote on the request by Mr Fichtenbauer, the draft law on federal law, which amends the Wehrgesetz 2001 and the Waffengesetz 1996, to refer the additions to the National Defense Committee in 1742. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this referral request to give an appropriate sign. – The application does not find a majority and is rejected. We shall vote on the draft law in 1742. Hiezu, MEPs have given Dr. Mr Fichtenbauer, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to make a supplementary or amendment. I shall therefore first vote on the parts concerned by the amendment or amendment referred to above and, finally, on the remaining parts of the draft law which have not yet been voted on. We shall now proceed to the vote on the additional and additional motions for resolutions. Amendment tabled by Dr Fichtenbauer, colleagues on Rule 2. Whoever joins this request, I am looking for a sign. – The application does not find a majority and is rejected. We shall immediately vote on these parts of the draft law as it stands. I am looking for those members of the House who advocate a positive sign. – This is accepted by a majority. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt in the version of the Government template. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to this sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall immediately reach the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Steinhauser, ladies and gentlemen, on the military, reserve and presence status regulation concerning participation in meetings relating to the Third Reich. Whoever is in favour of this motion for a resolution, I would ask for a sign of approval. – The application does not find a majority and is rejected. [[18:16:28]] 4. Point Government template: Federal Law amending the 1992 passport law (1649 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e18638	We're now on the 4th. Agenda item. With regard to this request, the Committee on Internal Affairs had a period of up to 12 months. ==References====External links== Negotiations on this subject should therefore be included in this meeting. Oral reporting is not required. Mr Vilimsky came to speak. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e18669	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In all inconspicuousness and scarcity our position on the passport law: In the public debate, abuses were discussed in this area – which, in my view, were really totally unacceptable abuses. The public had to learn that over 3,000 so-called diplomat passports and more than 7,000 so-called service passports were in circulation. It was not until it became known that people who were involved in the arms lobbying field were equipped with these documents that were found to be in contact with them that the barrel was overrun somewhere. It has begun a public debate and then led to a result, and I cannot say today in what area this coalition has finally agreed on. It is important to me to mention immediately that this debate has taken place with such a great deal of uniosity that it is necessary to make clarifications here. Those who had this document had no opportunity to smuggle anything with diplomatic status, because they (a) had no diplomatic status and (b) had to carry out exactly the same checks on themselves as any other citizen. There were no upgrades and no upgrades to airlines, there were no upgrades in hotels. There is also a bit to appeal to the local newspaper landscape, to stay serious and not to report things of this kind with such an incident. I know, in journalism, there's the sage: A guate research makes the best G’s layer! But it would sometimes be quite appropriate to look at things here with Sakhaar arguments and not to fall into a Halali of the lowest drawer. There was an understanding here at an interfractional level. There were two possibilities for us from the beginning. The possibility number one was: It is agreed on a way which sets aside all the abuses, where one says transparency is also ensured, where, for example, an annex to the foreign policy report will be made clear in the future, who has received such documents. And possibility number two: One does not place it in the mysterious area of responsibility of the external resort, in a sort of loophole, where one can find free about who gets passports of this kind and who does not. The number two variant would have been that only more diplomats in the narrow sense would be equipped with this document and all politicians, that is, in particular the government politicians no longer equipped. [[Abg. Grosz: That's great!]] What I didn't like at all from the beginning was the play-out between government and Parliament. There were statements by the Foreign Minister, who were absolutely not in order. If he thinks that government representatives are officially representing the Republic, but mandates abroad are not representing the Republic, but their parties, I say, this is a statement that is not to be accepted and where I would have expected Mr Klubobmann Cap and Mr Klubobmann to make it clear in the interests of Parliament. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We are not party representatives, we are all 183 elected representatives. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: I said it!]] The President said so. All right, maybe we can still say towards the ÖVP and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs that a clarification of this kind would be necessary. It is easy to explain why we will reject this novelle and this government template today: We have a foreign minister who is unable or unwilling, however, to make clear to the public. But he who simply allows a media hunt in this case does not make any clarifications here. The discussion in public perception has reached a point where you simply have to say: It would be better for everyone to refrain from doing so, because it is hardly possible in the public, in the absence of the appropriate will of the foreign resort, to state that it could very well be associated with things that have a benefit. At the High House, I remember that this may make sense in remote corners of this region for election observers who are on official mission for the OSCE, whether in Kyrgyzstan, Azerbaijan. However, we have a situation where exactly this defense does not take place, where a public perception has been raised and is raised further, where one speaks of “Luxury passports”, where one speaks of upgrades, where we have reached the point of view: Let's make a clear line here! Better, we all do not care than that we continue to have a situation in a media presentation with incorrect facts, where politics in total does only harm. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e18726	Mr Lopatka. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e18748	Mr Vilimsky! Even with the best will to follow you in your argument, I am now hard to do: On the one hand, you are in favour of Members who travel abroad for the Republic, with such a document... Mr Grosz! [[Abg. Grosz: Yes, but you are not diplomats! Are you an ambassador?- Oh, my God!]] Firstly, the artificial excitement is not a contribution to the matter; secondly, I would ask you to note that I have now referred to Mr Vilimsky. I'm still coming to the BZÖ. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Cap secures himself! Lopatka will be grateful to him!]] I should like to point it out once again: Either we are in favour of the fact that those who are on the move for the Republic abroad enjoy this protection properly addressed by Mr Vilimsky, or we are against it. Whoever is – and I am going to make the request now – must agree to this regulation. Or one represents a position such as the BZÖ, namely “complete abolition” as it is called in a broadcast of the BZÖ parliament club. [[Abg. Grosz: That's it!]] It says: “This document is no longer necessary in the present day – a useless paper that may still have its permissions in the 1990s – but is unnecessary nowadays.” [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Completely unnecessary!]] [[Abg. Grosz: That's it!]] Let me now tell you something, Mr Grosz and Mr Westenthaler. Maybe you can listen to me for two sentences for a while, maybe you can do it once. At the beginning of December I was at the Party Day – I was at the beginning of December at the Congress of Christian Democrats in Belarus – many say that it is the last dictatorship in Europe – to support a democratic movement there, the Christian Democrats, because democracy should also come there! [[Abg. Grosz: Super! What are you doing at a party meeting?]] [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Grosz: Have you observed elections or been to a party meeting?- Oh, my God!]] Mr Grosz! The basic requirement to participate in elections is to form parties; it has so far forbidden President Lukashenko, now for the fourth time that this party is recognised as a party to participate in elections. If you do not understand this, it is pointless to enter into a debate with you here. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Subsequent calls by Mr Grosz and Mr Ing. Westenthaler.]] It's not stupid, it's basic, as you know, to take part in a election, it's to be a candidate party. If you don't understand, I can't discuss this with you. Second point: Why am I coming to the diplomat passport now? – Before this party day could be concluded, the light went out, and then the members of the board of directors elected there were stopped, including delegates who did not have a diplomat passport, for example from Poland. [[Abg. Grosz: This happens at ÖVP parties!]] I was lucky, I say, to have a diplomat passport, and I haven't been stopped. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You're already selling it for stupid! You don't need a diplomat pass for that!]] In 1989, Mr Westenthaler, I am on 20 June 1989. In April, he was arrested in Romania. No, it's not stupid.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e18901	Mr Westenthaler, your group has sufficient speaking time at its disposal, you are welcome to speak.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e18916	This is the difference between the FPÖ and the BZÖ: The FPÖ is approaching the subject from the objective side, but you are trying to collect cheap political change. [[the speaker points towards BZÖ]] [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] They see it as a privilege; I do not see it as a privilege when we try to provide democratic movements by attending party meetings with appropriate moral support. This is about the protection of the person who is represented there; and one way to have a special protection here is through this document. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You are not a diplomat!]] I am therefore entitled, in accordance with § 53 para. 4 GOG also submit this amendment and briefly explain: On the one hand, there is the restriction that only more active politicians have the opportunity to apply for a diplomat passport. If this function is terminated, the issuing authority shall immediately reset this document for devaluation. If this is not the case, it is also very clearly regulated that appropriate administrative procedures should then be introduced. It is also regulated as regards diplomats themselves, and a close arrangement for spouses and children, because it is necessary that if they travel abroad with our ambassadors that they too are protected accordingly. We have also provided for this diplomat passport for the President and Vice-Presidents of the Supreme Courts, for the Court of Auditors and for the People's Procuratorate. As far as Parliament is concerned, Mr Vilimsky: Each group has the opportunity to send those who are really committed to the Committee on Foreign Affairs. This is why it is for members of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and for our European Parliaments, because they are on the move and come into situations where it is justified to have such a document. Therefore, summarized from our site: The Foreign Minister has made a very clear arrangement. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: He wanted to change something!]] In the past, there has been a generous arrangement over time, which has also benefited you, Mr Westenthaler, and others. This generous arrangement has an end to this day. This regulation, which we have, belongs to in Europe, I tell you, is one of the more stringent and not one of the more relaxed. There is a right throughout Europe to issue diplomat passports. That is why I say to you: If you think you have to make cheap political change, then you can't prevent anyone from doing it. I would like to appeal once again to the Group of the European Liberal, Democratic and Reformist Party: Look at this regulation! I think she is exactly what you said in your speech, Mr Vilimsky. Your group would have the opportunity to achieve exactly that for those Members you have referred to by working with these Members in the Committee on Foreign Affairs. In this sense, I still hope that we will reach the greatest possible agreement to a new regulation, which is clearly and objectively justified. The generous handling, which has so far been, has thus ended with today's day by this initiative by the Foreign Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e18997	The amendment previously tabled and distributed is explained and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e19105	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Steinhauser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e19127	Ladies and gentlemen! At the beginning of the debate on diplomat passports, there is indeed a privilege. I would like to remind you: At the time, it was about the former government members and their relatives. At that time, former Minister of the ÖVP smoke-callat has the fact that Mr Mensdorff-Pouilly has a diplomat passport, defending with the words that when travelling, it would be impractical if she quickly came through the security checks and he was standing in the snake. – This was clearly a privilege that no one deserves! It was quite clear that there was a need for action. The government then presented a government paper which was not sustainable on the one hand, by taking on the one hand every opportunity to get diplomat passports, and on the other hand, said that government members and their “members” – “members” under quotation marks – should continue to receive diplomat passport passports. – That was an inaccurate arrangement, which was not even argumentable! For us Greens, it was relatively clear that beyond the question of privilege, one must discuss the question: What is objective, what is irrelevant?, for if it is objective, then it is not a privilege. I'd like to say straight away: It is also necessary to talk about Parliament's constant devaluation that everything is a privilege. I'll be there later. In fact – and that was always clear – it is that committed members of the Foreign Policy Committee whose horizon does not end at the border of their own constituencies are sometimes active in delicate missions in Europe and the world. The example of Mr Lopatka regarding Belarus is a clear example. It's the same! That's how it happened to him in Belarus. Years ago, when they visited Kurdish Members, the Green Members in Turkey left. And there will be many cases where Members who are engaged are similar. This has nothing to do with a privilege, but it has to do with the mandate of representatives of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. And the task is to get in touch with opposition representatives from countries that unfortunately do not have the democratic standards like us and colleague, I am not a member of the Foreign Policy Committee, I am not going to get a diplomat passport either, and that is true, because the green judge does not need one! [[Abg. Grosz: When did you last do this?]] But the foreign-political spokesman or the developmentist speaker of the Greens will sometimes be on the road in delicate human rights missions, and they should also have the diplomatic passport, because it is right, in a delicate situation Yes, I know you do not get beyond your own constituency. [[Between call of the Abg. Ing. Westenthaler.]] I'm clear you didn't have a single mission. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The only thing that comes to mind is that of your party founder to Libya. You are sitting at the table with the despots, and we are sitting at the table with the opposition in these countries. That's why you don't need a diplomat passport, because you'll be rolled out there anyway if you want to open up financial sources. [[Abg. Grosz: Do the fungus to defend its diplomat passport! That's all live! That's right!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Defend the privilege!]] No, our task is to strengthen the democratic opposition. – That's the one point. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ Members and the Agg. Dr. Lopatka.]] Now we have an objective solution. The objective solution looks like this – no, I will explain the material solution to you. [[Abg. Grosz: That we now have more than before! Congratulations!]] You probably haven't read it out, because you're no longer able to argue rationally at all. .I'll tell you what the objective solution is. The objective solution is that family members of government members fall out. They're not on the way in diplomatic mission. That would be a privilege. The ex-Politics are falling out. They're not active either. But Parliamentary members of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, which is politically active, are inside. The last sentence – and this is an important sentence – is the permanent devaluation of Parliament. The BZÖ is there leading. You want to explain to the members of the Committee on Foreign Affairs that they do not need a diplomat passport because you obviously do not need it because you do not go beyond your constituency. You want to reduce Parliament by half. First of all: The electorate will always reduce you on the election day, i.e. to zero. [[Assured by Dr. Moser and Mag. Johann Maier.]] We just need to be careful: If we constantly declare that everything is a privilege, then one day someone will say that we do not need the whole Parliament. Therefore: Let us stop constantly devaluing Parliament's political work! Let us discuss where privileges are and where it is justified. Everyone knows I've always driven a very sharp line in the entire corruption debate. With regard to the anti-corruption law, everyone here was still in favour of it, because it was my mission to remove this privilege. Only: One has to distinguish between what is a privilege and what is factually justified. I believe that there is now a balanced, objective system. I have one more word to say to the FPÖ, namely: I do not understand that the FPÖ is not going along, because FPÖ wanted exactly that. It was, I have to admit, the colleague Fiechtenbauer – not alone but also – who at the time also argued in the Committee on the Interior, who said it would be inappropriate if members of the Committee on Foreign Affairs could no longer be active. Now comes exactly what he asked, namely: Members of the government, members of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, and now they do not dare to go with them. The Austrian newspaper reported in April: Strache made Secretary General Vilimsky fight for his diplomat passport yesterday. – You can now discuss the style, but the content is exciting. – ‘It is unacceptable to give the diplomatic passport to ministers’ spouses, but this document makes sense for () active members of the Foreign Policy Committee.’ What you have called for is now being implemented precisely with this amendment! Now I'm gonna tell you something: You got cold feet, you don't trust! That's the difference! In fact, you are really glad that the Greens have the courage to support this request, because it is exactly what you want, only are you I am not saying the word now, for I am proud that I do not yet have a call of order, although I am a friend of clear words. You just trust yourself and just don't! This is your problem and our strength! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e19248	I have already announced on the orientation that I will vote on this item after the agenda has been completed, because of short-term amendments. Mr Pendl. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e19276	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! We could actually lead the debate completely unafraid. I would just like to remind you, first of all, of the media reports, of what the political groups say, up to the debate in the Committee on the Interior. Mr Vilimsky! That's exactly what the Peter Fichtenbauer called for. Dear Peter Westenthaler! That's exactly what you said from the first second. By the way, I wonder why you even have a diplomat passport if he doesn't listen anyway. Someone must have asked him. Not everyone has one. But in the interests of the Members themselves, I ask: Let us not have such a discussion on such an important issue! It just opened up – I don't want to repeat it with former politicians – and there were 3 300 and a few that were spent at the time. This has actually been brought back to a handful. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: 26!]] That was all your wish. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: No!]] That you don't think we forget. Who has made the request for adjournment and for what reason? [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Mrs. Minister!]] - Everyone was there. Watch out! Request Westenthaler. That you don't think we were at another wedding. We already know what was said there. That is exactly what has been debated at the time, which has now been tabled by means of the amendment. At least let's stick to the thing! Gentlemen of FPÖ and BZÖ, the talks are already okay. But, as elected Members, I believe, one should also confess that the democracies are carried by political parties in our latitudes, and not continuously, on every occasion, these parties, no matter in any context, are being shut down. With all the needs of reforms, I think to say here that this is a bad solution is the cheapest polemic that exists! [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Everyone knows in which rounds we are together, in which committee what was spoken, who made the requests. I can be annoyed by some statements by members of the government, for example, but that's not how I react to it. I can replicate that differently. I can handle that differently. I just think there are many good reasons, both for the members of the government and for diplomats, but also for the Members of this House who are sent by their Parliament in a political mission in crisis spots of this world, that it is quite simply a need for them to have these passports. If we distance ourselves from those, and if we continue to believe, through cheap populism, we are half-patterning ourselves – that is how the discussion often occurs to me – then we will not live up to the matter, but also the dignity of this House, ladies and gentlemen! Many colleagues in many countries have had so many experiences that were not funny. They don't drive in certain countries because they're fad because they make vacation there – let's confess! – but they go there in a mission of the house or the Republic. But then I have to be at least so honest that I say that we have discussed this together for weeks. And we have tried to find a solution here together. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Let the blacks lie down! They're laughing at the fist!]] - Well, that's pure populism, Peter. Do it with the Foreign Minister, but not with us! We stand for an objective solution, led back to a handful in the foreign office, brought back to the members of the government without family members, brought back to those ladies and gentlemen of the House who work in the Foreign Policy Committee, and of course also the MEPs. I think more, a bigger solution and a cleaner solution cannot be brought together. I invite you once again to give your consent to this common path – you have all formulated it yourself. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Certainly not!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e19374	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Westenthaler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e19411	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! One thing is not going, Mr Pendl, Mr ÖVP and Mr SPÖ, especially Mr Klubobmann Cap: You stand out here in the morning like the Engerl and talk about the reduction of privileges, about transparency – all lip confession – and then, in the late afternoon, in the evening, in the evening – that's what happens – you come out here again and cement precisely these privileges, which you have formulated in the morning as lip confessions, into a law for yourself, namely the privilege of a diplomat passport that no man in this republic needs anymore except the diplomats themselves. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] This is this dual nature of the SPÖ, which has once again been drawn from the ÖVP over the table. What is the truth? What is the truth? The truth is that suddenly more mandates than before come into the privilege of a diplomat passport. More than before! 26 Members will receive a diplomat passport in the future or have a claim because the BZÖler will not apply for it, but have a claim. 26 mandates! Do you know who had a legal claim so far? – The three presidents of the National Council, no one else! Maybe you can still say now, it was Usus that even the club men had one. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Lap.]] Mr Lopatka, don't worry! Do you know where my diplomat passport is? – In the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, probably for a long time devalued, because unlike you, I have long sent him back. [[Abg. Dr. Lopatka: When?]] Remember that, Mr. Lopatka! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] When I look at this illustrated round of future diplomats in this House – they are now a bit better. There will be two categories of delegates in the future: Normal Members who, like anyone else, also travel with a normal passport, possibly with a service pass – okay, bought – and there are the others, the diplomats. These are the diplomats, the future diplomats in SPÖ. Who's that? Let's take a look at this! This is Mrs Petra Bayr. Congratulations! [[Bravoruf at BZÖ.]] You will become very important in the future with a red diplomat passport! – on behalf of the Republic, go abroad and no longer need to fear like Mr Lopatka. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] This is also interesting: The only tangible reason from the ÖVP why you need a diplomat passport in this house is because you are afraid when you go abroad. Mr Lopatka is afraid when he travels to Belarus. That's why he needs a diplomat passport. That's a chuzpe! This is an increase in the population you are doing, Mr Lopatka! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Now he comes out here and is the signatory of the application. And that's the biggest chuzpe, because do you know who will benefit from such a diplomat passport by law in the future? – Mr Reinhold Lopatka, the member of the Committee on Foreign Affairs – you hear and marvel. That means he comes out here and makes a request for himself to have a diplomat passport in the future so that he can go abroad again fearlessly. [[Intervocations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] That's incredible what you're doing here! This is just the introduction of privileges brand ÖVP! Enjoy this process, Mr Lopatka! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] But it's still going on! Colleagues from the ÖVP! Mr Pendl, I really have to tell you: I would not have thought that you are from this party, the ÖVP – we know it – we already have government experience and know how it operates – that you can be pulled over the table like this! Do you know who's up there, who's gonna enjoy a diplomat passport in the future? – Vilimsky said quite right: The triggering moment, why diplomat passports were discussed at all, was because ex-Politicals who were persecuted by the prosecutors still have a diplomat passport. [[Call the ÖVP:Westenthaler!]] Do you know who'll get a diplomat passport in the future? – Mr Ing. Kurt Gartlehner of the SPÖ, member of the Foreign Policy Committee, receives a diplomat passport that we only delivered here a few weeks ago, because in the Causa Telekom there is a criminal proceedings against him. [[Abg. Grosz: This is inconceivable!]] Does Mr Gartlehner need a diplomat passport to advise Mr Hocheg-ger – perhaps at the wind farms in the East, why is he now in discredit? That's a chuzpe! And then you're getting involved with the ÖVP?- Oh, my God! Mr. Klubobmann Cap! You have also secured your privilege. They're also on the list. Mr. Klubobmann of the SPÖ, not the black clubman, has been sent, he is not on it. The only clubman with a diplomat passport in future is Mr. Klubobmann Cap. Mr. Strache is not on it. They are the only clubman to secure the privilege of a diplomat passport through today's law decision. Come out and tell me you're not going to do that, Mr. Klubobmann Cap! Then I'll take you seriously again. But don't talk here in the morning about the reduction of privileges and then secure this privilege here! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] That's still going on. Mrs Renate Csörgits. I congratulate you, on behalf of the trade union, you will be driving through the area as a diplomat in the future. Mr Anton Heinzl, many readers of this speaker's board, will also be reading his speeches in diplomatic form abroad with a passport. Wonderful! [[Abg. Grosz: Great foreign politician!]] In the future, Mrs Christine Muttonen from Carinthia will receive a diplomat passport, Mr Hannes Weninger and, of course, the first row, foot-free – you were probably Mr Pendl's whisperer – including Mrs. Wurm. [[Abg. Grosz: Also a great foreign politician!]] In future, she is a privileged Member, who is allowed to go from Tyrol in colorful dress everywhere with her diplomat passport. It's really a scandal as you guard your privileges! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Now I'm gonna tell you something. Do you know who's a replacement? – Mrs. Col. Rudas. If anyone fails, she'll go after her and get another diplomat passport. Then you have the entire SPÖ party headquarters equipped with diplomat passports. That's really incredible. And that's what you're gonna do?- Oh, my God! The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats will vote in favour of the motion for a resolution. Wait! Mr Neugebauer, Mr President, is also on the table, but he gets him as President. In the future, Mr Wolfgang Großruck will spread his tremors by diplomat passport abroad. Congratulations! Wonderful! [[Demonstrative applause with the ÖVP.]] And then it goes on: Dr. Martin Bartenstein. You know what? – This is really a lubrication comedy, Mr. Klubobmann Cap. If you really want to run down privileges, then get out of here, withdraw the request and join our opinion, our amendment, which says absolutely clearly one thing: a citizen, a card, no privileges, no distinctions at all – for every member of the government, every politician who is officially going abroad, drives with a delegation and is protected. He doesn't need to be afraid like Mr. Lopatka. He needs this paper, this red paper, so it's gone. It's gone, it's abolished! We have tabled this amendment today. Voices You listen to him and stop defending this privilege with such negligent and fading documents that Mr Lopatka puts on the table! Stop selling people this stupid! The SPÖ today: Viktor Klima 11 700 € Pension, Schieder requests a BMW, and today you apply for your diplomat passports. This is the party of the little people. Pui devil! Congratulations!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e19599	The distributed amendment is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e19754	Next speaker: Mr Grosz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e19775	Excellence! Ladies and gentlemen, ambassadors! [[Cheerfulness at the BZÖ.]] This is the case, according to international practice, ambassadors are addressed with “Excellences. ” So: Excellency, Mr. Ambassador Cap! Excellence in SPÖ, like your gifted foreign politician Heinzl, who rarely left the radius of St. Pölten outside politically! Excellency, Ambassador Lopatka, nuclear oil ambassador from far-away Hartberg! Ladies and gentlemen! “Schmierenkomödie” has rightly said to my predecessor, Mr Westenthaler. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Hakl.]] Do you know what the drama and the sadness of the whole story is? – Some of the representatives of the government parties are trying to talk out here – and also in advance to newspapers – of it: What kind of problem do you have in the population? A diplomat passport does not benefit you, because that does not result in a diplomatic status. – This argument was also argued by Mr Vilimsky. That's right, isn't it? Good. Then, with his travel experiences, the colleague Lopatka returns from the party day of the Christian-social democrats from Belarus and says that his diplomat passport protected him from arrest. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: Such a fool!]] Now I'm wondering, What's the matter? One says it's not a diplomat status. The other is afraid at an ÖVP party in Belarus. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Fear to this day!]] That's where I'd be afraid. The light often goes out at such Christian-social parties. Last time in Italy with the Christian Democrats. But then everyone was arrested, Mr Lopatka! So the one says he has the diplomat status. The other says there is no diplomat status, but fact is that according to a parliamentary request, 3 138 diplomat passports and 7 853 service passports are in circulation. We haven't talked about that yet. You can now buy it against a small Okkasion at the Chamber of Commerce, or you are the editor-in-chief of a medium, then you automatically also have a service pass. You certainly do provide a service to the Republic, but at the service of the Republic you are not yet. [[Between call of the Abg. Ing. Westenthaler.]] The title dizzying is the same with the diplomat passport. They adorn themselves with a title that does not belong to you. That passport says diplomat passport. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, you are a lot, and I also like you very much, but you are not diplomats! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] And one more thing I have to say to you: Is it a bad politician to have the purple passport of the Republic of Austria? – a population, a passport. Is that a bad person? You know, I have a slow discussion like this – also driven by the honourable Member Herbs, who has done so in January – that we have a diplomat passport and thus cast other physical deficits that we have. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: Diplomat pass from the colleague Westenthaler!]] There's also that when driving. You know the saying: The longer the car, the shorter the rest. And that's how it happens to me in history. In order to ensure that a number of MEPs and politicians can show at home: Look, Mutti, I have a diplomat passport, I'm an important one! [[Interim calls at BZÖ and ÖVP.]] You may also do that if you go to Croatia on vacation and smuggle your three “Cres-Radels” that you can also show it. Look, Republic of Austria, I'm a diplomat, do you salute decently? Mr. Pendl would say to a Vienna policeman: Shut up, I'm a diplomat! Look, ladies and gentlemen, the people in this republic are satisfied that you continue to adorn yourself with privileges that do not allow you to slander diplomats, although in one case or another you are an honorable politician. [[Cheerfulness at the BZÖ.]] [[Complaints and intermediate calls at the BZÖ.]] [[Intervocations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we will not vote in favour of this scheme and have tabled our own amendment. This amendment is consistent: Diplomat passport in Austria for diplomats and senior officials of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in diplomatic missions – cut off, okay. They deserve the protection of the Republic of Austria in Bahrain. Mr Lopatka, when was the last time you were in Tehran or Bahrain? Did it reach only for the party day to Belarus from the blacks there? - Don't worry. [[Abg. Hoefinger: Last class!]] But for the buffets in Hartberg that you clear off, you don't need a diplomat pass either. I'm just saying it on the occasion. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: The next time there is a urgent matter, Mrs. Minister!]] [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] So, a regulation: Diplomate passport for diplomats, and politicians will receive a service pass in the future. They are at the service of the Republic, this designation form service passport is sufficient for politicians, for their activity at foreign delegations, et cetera. Give me an example of red and black – their privilege knight, including the Greens, but I'm still on it – where an Austrian politician has been arrested in foreign missions since there were service and diplomat passports in Austria in the Second Republic! Call me one! There are some Members who were on foreign missions in dangerous countries, there have been federal presidents who have liberated hostages. There's been a lot of things there. Please call me a Member who was arrested! [[Abg. Dr. Lopatka has that hand.]] Mr Lopatka, but this can happen more often at the ÖVP, there are constantly any Members of you arrested. But this is not because of your diplomat passport, but simply because of the politics of song in dealing with morality and the conduct of the Austrian People's Party. This has nothing to do with your diplomat passport, Mr. Lopatka. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Intervocations at ÖVP and SPÖ.]] As an ÖVPler you have to fear being arrested, because you get it with breast milk, with the young People's Party, that you don't take it so honestly with the laws. But fun side by side: President. — The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: I don't understand why that's not possible. In January the discussion started two MEPs, together with the daily “Kurier”. The Member of Parliament of the Herbs, the Supreme Council of Herbs, the old political board system, today in the third row, sees here, ho, ho, and the Member of the Pilz, who remains away from this vote at all. [[Abg. Petzner: Herbs, have always said! Big announcements!]] Who gets the diplomat passport? – The one who has criticized him the hardest, the member of the Foreign Policy Committee Peter Pilz. I congratulate the Greens, and what I now think I should not say, because otherwise a Suada of orders would blossom after my speech. But the answer, ladies and gentlemen of the Greens, will be given to you by the citizens of the country – for the benefit of the Member of the Pilz, who has actually criticised the diplomatic passport regime, which is now on it, will once again be given to you to create these privileges for your mandates. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wenninger.]] We say: A population, a passport, citizenship, the passport is a great asset – we know it in other cases – but no abuse of the passport and no abuse of diplomatic passports for vain politicians who compensate their political failure by having beautiful business cards and a diplomat passport on regiment costs for their holidays.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e19966	Mr Grosz! For the fact that you have put a blasphemous name in your mouth to Mr Pendl, I give you a call for order. [[Abg. Grosz: Thank you!]] [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] I ask you to be moderate in the choice of words, with all enthusiasm! This is what Mr Ing has to say. Westenthaler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e20015	The subject is a lot. After you apparently don't want to discuss anymore, we take the floor. But I get it, you get a little bit. So do we, honestly, that's a little bit of a stranger. It's also clear to me that this is a little bit happening. But we're taking the opportunity not to worry. [[Abg. May. Gaßner: We are generating for you!]] Klubobmann Cap and Klubobmann Head – where is he, not there – Bartenstein, Lopatka, the theme, I promise you that, continues to concern us. I am already telling you that in July there will be a urgent question to the Minister for the Interior and to the Foreign Minister, and then let us look at how the diplomatic passports continue and whether you are still standing there. We'll keep doing this. I've only forgotten one group, another group we haven't discussed yet, which is also privileged to you there and where you open the door to abuse. These are these funny government officials, we have not yet discussed them. [[Abg. Grosz: A Mr. Androsch! A Mr. Blecha!]] This is also in the law. There is really a section where you can equip anyone who wants to be the government with a diplomat passport – everyone you want. So, for example, Mr Blecha, Mr Androsch, when Mr Androsch visits and looks at the Chinese wall, he gets a diplomat passport from the government, no problem at all. [[Abg. Grosz: Vranitzky!]] I take Vrannitzky out, because I read, he was so decent and sent him back, it's okay. But there are hundreds of other so-called government officials who do nothing at all, but they also get a diplomat passport. And this nonsense you could at least have abolished! That's a back door, an abuse door. Mr. Herbs, you were one of the first to criticize this. You said you were leaving with the diplomat passports, and today you sit there and decide for your comrades diplomat passports. Enjoy yourself, Mr. Herbs! Their credibility is permanently destroyed. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. Dr. Herbs: Gauner!]] Mr. Klubobmann Cap, something else: They're always talking about parliamentarianism. Now I'm looking deep in your eyes. Has this current history been dealt with in a committee, in detail, as it does in Parliament? - No, I don't. Once it came to a committee, it was the presentation of Mr Spindelegger – I am now taking out the Minister of the Interior, she can't do anything for it, because she's coming like that, I don't say now,... to the child – that came over Mr Spindelegger. Interestingly, he had no parliamentarians inside in the initial version of the version, surprisingly. And now his own party is driving him into the parade, I don't think it's bad either. The Spindelegger and ÖVP president, who has been reporting to the media for weeks on end, will no longer receive a diplomat passport. It looks quite different at once. So you also scratch on your own credibility, but that doesn't matter to us. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grosz.]] Only: It was in the Committee on the Interior, which, after this discussion, which was very intense, said it, yes, it is for a delay, because this is still to be discussed – Mr Lopatka. You have made the request, but the Minister, who will confirm this, has spoken and himself argued for this request and has supported the postponement. What's going on now? – It has not been postponed, but there is no internal committee at all. The government bypasses ordinary parliamentary treatment, the thing clears somewhere at 18.30 a.m., 7 p.m., while Denmark-Portugal, since, you think, no one listens anyway, and really believes that this remains so, and you can quietly and secretly decide that. Don't do that! I announce to you today: don't! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brosz.]] We are going to run Mr. Herbs, Mr. Cap, and as they all are called, Mr. Spindelegger – in the ÖVP there are also a few who are either not there or who do not want to see that Mr. Lopatka, just because he fears, receives a diplomat passport, no – continue to confront and address it, until you come to reason and realize that this red paper does not make sense anymore. It doesn't make sense anymore, because it might have made sense in the seventies and eighties, I admit to you, where there was still a cold war where there were still entry chandeliers. These days need to be done. You don't have this pass at all. The only privilege he brings in truth is that if you travel to Russia, you don't need a visa – okay. But otherwise you don't need that. Come to reason and decide You are our amendment where we say: Stop the diplomat passport for politicians!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e20115	No one is reported in the word anymore. I therefore conclude the debate. [[Call at BZÖ:Entered silence!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Jarolim.]] Is there a word, Mr. Doctor? [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: He protested with his passport!]] [[Abg. Grosz: Mr. Gartlehner gets a diplomat passport!]] Since amendments have been tabled in the short term and a short break in the sitting is not sufficient to prepare the vote, I shall put the vote to the vote until after the vote on item 6 on the agenda and we shall continue to complete the agenda. [[19:00:26]] 5. Point report of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry on the Government template (1740, e.g._Other Organiser Amendment to Articles 25 and 26 of the Convention on the Protection and Use of Transboundary Watercourses and International Lakes (1790, e.g.)
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e20181	We're now on the 5th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. We are going into the debate. I call Mr Mayer. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e20211	Mr President. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! After a very intense debate on Agenda item 4 on one of my views, I also think, important issue, on Agenda item 5. This is about the protection and use of cross-border watercourses and lakes. To this end, it can be said that Austria's rivers and lakes are in a very good condition, not to say in a highly recognizable state. We have done a lot for this in Austria. We have taken measures such as a water management plan or various water protection measures, which also concern agriculture, but we have achieved a great deal also in the disposal of waste water. For example, if I look in my home district, we have already supplied almost every last house with a channel connection. There's a lot of money in the hand to achieve a lot of quality. This not only means quality of life for people on the ground, but it also helps us, to keep our country attractive for tourism when the lakes and waters are in good condition. Well-functioning tourism is also important for the added value of an economy. The cross-border measures are of great importance in the protection of water. The loads do not have a limit, the water flows from A to B and will certainly not take State borders into account. And it is easy to take measures and control how the loads are going on in order to ensure fair use of water resources and to take account of the protection of ecosystems accordingly. Since the 1990s, Austria has been involved in a convention of European States on ensuring this. Cooperation is an important point and also works very well. At this point, it should also be understood that third countries who are not yet present would like to join. I very much support this. It is also important to bring in the experience gained by Austria, because there are various cross-border measures, such as an EIA, which is quite, very important, that the population can also talk about larger projects. It's like that. The beneficiaries of this amendment to the Agreement include countries in Central Asia or Latin America. [[President Dr. Graf takes over the chairmanship.]] Now, of course, we, the parties, like Austria, have to deal with these changes in Parliament. I suppose there's broad agreement. There is no human or financial impact on the State of Austria, and I really expect a broad agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e20259	The next speaker is Mrs Binder-Maier. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e20281	Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! This amendment concerns, as Mr Mayer has said, the protection of our waters and our waters. And, of course, for my group, we can agree to this change, especially because the list of those countries that can participate in it will be extended and it is a question of protecting not only the waters but also of avoiding pollution, of better monitoring of these waters and of reducing cross-border burdens. I think these are measures that are very, very important. At present, Member States are only European states, all non-European successor states of the Soviet Union, the USA, Canada and Israel. In this way, this is a sensible extension. It is also a translation novel. Ladies and gentlemen, an important point, because water obviously knows no limits, and when it comes to the protection of water, this concerns the protection of nature as a whole. In this context, ladies and gentlemen, it is high time that we also protect the bee peoples in Austria and we come to measures, Federal Minister, that actually the bee-death is stopped. As a social democracy, we are co-computers of necessary regulations.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e20308	The next speaker was Mr Linder. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e20331	Mr President. Minister! Dear Members! Dear colleagues! We will, of course, agree with the Government's proposal for the protection of cross-border waters and international lakes. I believe that it is a very good and important thing to protect the waters, to refer to international regulations. I have only a little concern that it is going in the same direction as with the Kyoto agreement, that there are states and countries that are trying to take this seriously, and that there are states and countries that take this on their light shoulder and then invest a lot, take on many requirements and yet the goal of international protection is not given. That is why, Minister, I ask you and I ask you to ensure that all countries stand to see that this matter is taken seriously by all countries. So, I think it's a serious, good thing that does international well and is important to the waters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e20362	The next speaker was Mr Pirklhuber. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e20383	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President. Federal Minister! Of course, the Greens will also agree to the amendment to the Convention on the Protection and Use of Transboundary Watercourses and International Lakes. It is about the fact that this historic agreement, which has already existed since 1992, can also join third countries. I would like to give an example from yesterday's discussion with two MPs from Mozambique during an AWEPA meeting here in the house. Especially in countries where rivers cross a continent and where drought or water shortage or contamination of water is a subject, it is essential that there be cross-border protection measures so that one State does not dig the water to the other. This is in itself a very important matter. In this context, Mr Federal Minister, I would also like to point out what we have in the field of water protection. Positive things have been done over the last decades, but also where the dangers threaten. Mr Mayer has already mentioned good waste water treatment in rural areas, while we need to look at cost efficiency, on decentralised solutions, also using plant treatment plants that have proved themselves to be the best in rural areas. But the use of pesticides, ladies and gentlemen, is not to be underestimated as regards the threat of water quality. And I would like to mention in this context a discussion which we have also begun in other circumstances and in other contexts, namely the question of water-soluble pesticides, such as Roundup with the active substance glyphosate. These pesticides, which are used in small doses at the beginning, are suddenly in the household shelf because they can be purchased via the home market. Of course, they are applied in areas where it is not permitted by law, namely in the destruction of weeds on roads, in front of garages and on asphalt surfaces, et cetera. In fact, it is subject to a decree of authorisation. No consumer will take this into account – a point. A second point is that this is also a problem in agriculture itself, because these means are also used for ripening in a late state, just before the harvest, for even maturity and, under quotation marks, thus “sprayed” cereals on the market. So pesticides are important in terms of groundwater protection, which may be dangerous effects that we must take very carefully. In this context, ladies and gentlemen, it must be borne in mind that the last study of glyphosate residues in drinking water, namely general investigations in Austria, dates back to 2004. In a response to a question I was told that 2013 was the next evaluation on the agenda. I think that, honestly, for a far too long time. In future, we should consult intensively on such issues. We will do it this week in the Subcommittee of the Committee on Agriculture. Mr Federal Minister, it would also be interesting to know from you whether you have already received pesticides reduction plans from the individual federal states. There's a period of 30 per law. April. You yourself are obliged to do so until 31. To provide the Commission with a report on this subject on December 2012. We would be very interested in whether there is already a concept for your part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e20431	The next item is the speech by Mr Huber. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e20453	Mr President. Federal Minister! Of course, it is important to amend Articles 25 and 26 of the Convention. We will agree because it is important that we see that international waters are also kept in order that the loads are also reduced across borders. But if you look at what we're doing in Austria, then unfortunately you have to get on your head sometimes. There is the example of Isel in East Tyrol, where Austria has been accused by the European Union because the Isel was not nominated in the “Nature 2000 project”, and although we have been accused of this, the ÖVP forcefully maintains that the “Isle project” is being built, only to discharge the municipality of the “Ortskaiser”, the “Districtskaiser” Köll, which owes €42 million. To remember: The Isel is the last unbuilt mountain range that we have is the last glacier mountain range in Europe, which is still unbuilt. I think you have to think about what the ÖVP is doing: The entire tourism is destroyed. Today we have six companies on the Isel, which generate their income with rafting, which ensure that we have nights throughout the Isel Valley, throughout the region there. All this is simply thrown overboard. The ÖVP is just driving over there. Detentions are intended by the communities of Virgen and Magistrates. I think you really have to ask yourself what you really think about it. If we agree with such international agreements, if the whole House, if all the five parties represented here, agree, then we should see that we also protect our waters internally and build power plants there, where it makes sense, where something is produced, where the entire population benefits from it, and not the last jewel of nature, namely: the Isel, which is really the heart of the High Tauern, simply grow. It can't be!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e20492	The next item is the speech by Mr Ing. Schools. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e20513	Mr. Federal Minister! Appreciate High House! We really have an interesting law here today, a law that has been in force and effective since 1996 and we decide today that this law will be extended for other countries and will give them the opportunity to participate in it. This does not change at all – thank God, because the water policy in Austria is a very well-founded, very successful one and is borne by many: by industry and the electricity industry as well as by agriculture, forestry, cities, settlements and communities. All of us are trying to keep our waters clean, are very successful and are confirmed by many investigations. That some want to make themselves famous on the topic of water – my God, the colleague Pirklhuber is trying it on every corner! He's trying it here too, and there's nothing out there. That's life! We will endure this, and I think we can wish the Federal Minister that he will continue this good water policy. We are grateful to him – and the Austrians too! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e20547	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e20568	Mr President. High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The large river basins, such as Danube, Rhine and Elbe, are based on international water protection commissions serving this UN Convention. It is coordinated, and it makes sense to work cross-border. The top goal for Austria is that we protect water and also use water, provide water for the people in Austria to a high quality and sufficient extent. It also paid off for decades to invest in the water industry. Around €55 billion was invested in water supply and wastewater disposal. This means that in Austria we can supply 100 percent of our population with drinking water, spring water. This is exceptional and is not self-evident for European conditions. We will continue to do so in the future. The fact that it is not the same throughout the world is seen at the international UN conference, which will take place in Rio in a few days, where a goal of that is that by 2030 all people will have access to clean drinking water – a big goal that also supports Austria, because people should have enough drinking water not only in Austria, but also in the rest of the world. We must do something about this and we will continue to do so consistently in the future. – Thank you for your consent.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e20610	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall first vote on the request of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, the conclusion of the State Treaty in 1740 of the Supplements in accordance with Article 50(1). 1 Z 1 Federal Constitutional Act to grant approval. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall also vote on the request of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry for the French and Russian language version of this State Treaty in accordance with Article 49(1). 2 The Federal Constitutional Act is to be announced by the fact that they require public consultation in the Federal Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry, the Environment and the Water Industry. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to be a sign of approval. – This too is unanimously adopted. [[19:17:22]] 6. Point Report by the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry on Amendment 474/A(E) by Mr Dipl.-Ing. Dr. Wolfgang Pirklhuber, colleagues on the maintenance of Austrian genetic engineering bans (1791 d. B.)
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e20669	We're coming to the 6th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. President. — The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e20696	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, We are now discussing the motion for a resolution on the maintenance of the Austrian genetic engineering bans. When we look out into the world, we see that there is actually different access to the topic of “gen technology” worldwide. When we look into the United States of America, we see that you are offensively on the road to genetic engineering. There is even often the opinion that there is no future without genetic engineering. In Europe, the situation is such that many countries also say they want to use genetic engineering. You only need to look into the immediate neighborhood, namely Germany, where the Bavaria say they are convinced of it. We in Austria have a different philosophy regarding genetic engineering. We are convinced that it is also possible without genetic engineering. Above all, we want to determine whether we want to use genetic engineering or not. EU Member States should be able to decide for themselves whether to opt for genetic engineering or not. I can congratulate Federal Minister Niki Berlakovich for having succeeded in making an advance in this direction in Europe. In July 2010, the European Commission presented a proposal on the basis of an Austrian initiative, on the initiative of our Minister for Agriculture, for the anchoring of the region's right to self-determination for non-genotechnic cultivation. Unfortunately, it is still being discussed. There are different views. But I hope that this proposal will ultimately go through. And our motion for a resolution should also contribute to this. However, I must also mention that the abandonment of genetic engineering – at least in the short term – can also mean a relinquishing of yield for the farmers concerned and that there will not be the highest quality for the smallest price even in the future. If the Austrians have the highest quality, I think it is also necessary, in the sense of a functioning alliance between producers and consumers, to buy and stand up to them in the sense of a functioning alliance between farmers and consumers. I think we should also discuss this in this context, because the farmers only then say the benefits they expect: Landscape design and production of food of the highest quality can, or can meet these expectations.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e20738	The next item is the speech by Mr Sacher. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e20760	Mr President. Estimated Minister of State! A not very common five-party application, such as this one for the further maintenance of the bans on genetic engineering, calls on the Austrian Federal Government to defend the freedom of genetic engineering in our country at EU level and to ensure that the precautionary principle is consistently applied in European food safety policy. This unilateral attitude of all the parties to this House is also welcomed and shared by the majority of the Austrian population, especially about food safety and healthy nutrition. The scepticism towards genetic engineering in our food chain is absolutely justified, and the Austrian representatives, especially the competent Federal Ministers, are called upon to continue to act consistently at EU level against the authorisation of genetically modified organisms. And I am sure that you, Federal Minister, will do so very responsibly. At the same time, risk research in the field of Agro-Gentechnik is to be promoted. We're going well with that. However, the right of the regions to self-determination on non-genotechnic agriculture and food production must also be defended and maintained. We should do this consistently in the future. The Austrian representatives in the European Parliament are also doing this. I refer, for example, to Lower Austrian Social Democratic Members Karin Kadenbach, who, in the relevant Committee on Food Safety, pointed out the intentions of the EU Commission to avoid this sluggish. We must also strongly support this front, which is against it, with today's decision of this request. Finally, I would like to say: I would be pleased if we could reach such a consensus, Mr. Federal Minister, also on the question of agro-chemicals – keyword: Bees die. It is a small glimpse that we have now been able to form a subcommittee in the Committee on Agriculture, which will be set up on Friday, and I hope that we will also be successful there. Mr Federal Minister, I would like to say: We grow together pretty slowly – but that is free of genetic engineering!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e20811	The next item is the speech by Mr Linder. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e20832	Mr President. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) So I’m curious about how this will develop. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] I don't think I'm going to need a shear, it's done by itself that you're going to break up again. On the five-party application for the conservation of the ban on genetic engineering in Austria, I would like to give three examples from the past of how dangerous this is, where, after great euphoria, sober awakening came very soon. Personally, I was a little boy at the time when the veterinarians came and said that they had a means of spraying for the cows that they gave 25 percent more milk. Many farmers were thrilled and smiled at those who did not. After a very short time the cattle had sick limbs, were infertile, and they said, Was a mistake, then we have to go back, let's stop it! Second example: One has suddenly started the embryo transfer in the breeding because one has said otherwise one can no longer keep up with the breeding internationally, because one can get out of the good cows much more breeding. But very soon one has come to believe that the breeding is narrow and one has only a few lines that develop. It turned out again that you have to leave the embryo transfer a little bit and need the wide-ranging breeding again. Third example: 2000/2001, 1999/1998: Great euphoria for the euro! – Suddenly today we hear from the ÖVP that it was an experiment that it was a risk and perhaps not so skillful to be for it. I think these are three examples because we really should say: Let's stick to our line! Let's be careful with genetic engineering! Because once everything is distorted by genetic engineering, we have lost a lot. That is why, Minister: Put everything in place that will maintain the Austrian line and that we will continue to remain a GMO-free area! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e20882	The next item is Mr Pirklhuber. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e20903	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It is a good example of an active parliamentaryism: The right of self-determination of the non-genotechnic regions is based on the regions themselves. ==References====External links== The other federal states are involved, other regions in Europe as well, so that now 56 European political regions meet annually and together fight against an industrial-related Commission, an industrial-related approval authority, the European Food Safety Authority, the EFSA. I am therefore particularly pleased that we once again reaffirm together from the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development at a really critical stage of the discussion, on which we are building and on which the Minister can build in his argument at European level, namely that we are strictly maintaining the bans on genetic engineering and that we will make use of all legal means to do so, until the European Court of Justice. That is consistent, because in the end we are talking about political rights, subsidiarity – and we are not losing the European perspective, in any case! Of course, we want a free genetic engineering Europe, because the consumers from Great Britain to Romania are for healthy food, for non-genotechnic food. But politics is not yet that far. - That's a point. The second point is that, unfortunately, you, Mr Minister, were very quick and very presumptuous. They've been out of here a year and a half ago: Yes, we have managed, the right of self-determination has been fought! – Unfortunately, no! Legal certainty is not given! [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich: I never claimed that!]] – Yes, you have turned ads on and carried this opinion to the public. In fact, we do not yet have the Council's approval, because there are several countries blocking it. These are Great Britain, Germany, France and Belgium. So we have four major countries that are currently blocking, and it will be up to us to resolve this blockade together with civil society. This is an important project we need to work on. And the European Parliament – and that is, I believe, the very important positive message – is a hundred percent behind us. The In the Lepage report, the European Parliament said: Yes, environmental risks, as Austria argues, must be recognised by the Member States in the future, i.e. environmental risks that are argued for non-genotechnic agriculture. In this context, I am pleased that the green request has been accepted by the demands one too one. We had a first resolution in this direction in December 2011. In my view, what is particularly good is that the government parties say very clearly in advance – and I would like to quote from this amended argument in the introduction text – the criticism that the industry-related authorities EFSA and the EU Commission dominate the authorisation of genetic engineering is quite justified. And it's clear here: ‘Independent or even critical science from the Member States remains outside. The decision-making processes in the EU’s genetic engineering authorities thus show a structural gap in favour of the interests of international seed groups.” That is exactly what we are going to do together with this proposal. In this sense, a good sign of Austrian parliamentary closing. We will, I believe, achieve success together if we continue to work so consistently. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e20959	Next item is the report by Mr Huber. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e20980	Federal Minister! Mr President. High house! Yes, we will, of course, agree. This self-determination is important, because genetic engineering depends on genetic engineering, only fills the money pockets of the companies, and genetic engineering is the biggest forem of farmers. And here we have to take our own nose: We import 600 000 tonnes of genetically contaminated feed, refine them over the animals and give them to our consumers on the plate. - That's crazy, that's abolished! That's why: Genetic engineering only harms, genetic engineering belongs abolished. Their commitment to agriculture is a sin, and I think a fight for the diversity of life pays off. Genetic engineering is a crash course, and Monsanto, BASF or companies like Raiffeisen, who earn millions of dollars in trade, are only interested in making money. These are the health of people who do not care about animal health. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] What happens to the farmers doesn't matter to the corporations. I believe that one can only follow our policy, namely a hard, fast course, and so we have a chance to protect agriculture and our people.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e21019	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e21041	Mr President. High house! The Austrian line is clear: We reject the use of genetic engineering in agriculture. This is also the position of the Austrian Federal Government, since we are consistent. The Austrian population also rejects genetically modified food. We are able to serve the food market in Austria with high-quality GMO-free foods. Although the European Union has authorised varieties that have been genetically modified, we have established these varieties in Austria with national bans on cultivation. Other countries in the European Union have also done this, but these national bans can be lifted at any time by the European Commission. In 2009, our cultivation ban on genetic engineering varieties was discussed for the fourth time, and then I fought very much to get a majority. I succeeded in defending the national bans. However, this cannot be a condition in the long run, and so in 2009 I launched the initiative “self-determination on the issue of genetic engineering”: Every state in Europe should have the right to decide for itself whether or not to use genetic engineering. We in Austria do not want this, and we want to declare ourselves a non-genotechnic state so that EU law is safeguarded. At the time when I started the initiative, some Eastern European neighbouring countries supported us, and large European states said that the WTO contradicts this and that will not work. – However, the European Commission succeeded in taking over this initiative. Commission President Barroso said: Yes, there should be the possibility of a right of self-determination for national states on the issue of genetic engineering. – And that was the political breakthrough. We have never said that everything has already been done, but that has been the political breakthrough, because the Commission has done so on its programme, and it is up to the Commission to enforce it now. In particular, Commissioner Dalli is very committed – he was also in Vienna and we work closely with him. The point is that the Danish Presidency, which is still the Presidency, has adopted this issue. We cooperate very strongly with the Danes because we want to fully enforce this right of self-determination, that is, to anchor in the EU legal matter. It is now 22 states that support this Austrian initiative “Right of self-determination in genetic engineering”. That is, we have been able to get a lot on board lately. Big countries do not support us. These are Great Britain, France, Germany, Spain. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Netherlands and Belgium!]] Other countries do not support us, and that is why it is about getting a qualified majority now. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: I was in Copenhagen and got with the Danish...!]] – Mr Colleague! I sit there in the Council of Ministers, I know how the states behave. You can believe I'm telling the High House right here. In any case, a qualified majority is needed, and Denmark has not allowed it to vote now because France has the parliamentary elections and the French position is not yet clear. The future French Minister for Agriculture needs a mandate and therefore the Danes have postponed the vote. That is to say, in the next half-year under the Cypriot Presidency, this issue will once again be on the agenda from our point of view. We support Cyprus in this because we want to anchor this right of self-determination on the issue of genetic engineering, as I said. I also see this as an opportunity for Austrian agriculture to produce high-quality foods that are free from genetic engineering, so that we can serve the home market, but that we can also succeed in the foreign market with the high-quality Austrian food and also place our food on the European market. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e21090	Mr Pirklhuber is next to speak on an actual correction. I would remind you of the relevant provisions of the Rules of Procedure. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e21115	Mr President. Federal Minister! Unfortunately, it is necessary, but you have probably happened in the hurry of the fight, too, a little miscarriage. I was in Copenhagen last week at a European meeting, and after a discussion with the Danish Minister for the Environment, which is currently in charge of the Presidency of the Council, I am actually correcting that Spain is not currently against the Danish proposal, but the Member States Great Britain, Germany, France, the Netherlands and Belgium. It is a small thing, but the Spaniards, although growing genetic engineering, are not against the Danish proposal. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e21154	The next speaker was Mrs Königsberger-Ludwig. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e21176	Estimated Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Yeah, we heard it. In Austria there is a widespread rejection of the population with regard to the cultivation of genetically modified seed: Over 80 percent of the population rejects this. The Austrian Federal Government is actually doing well with this need. Austria is more or less free of genetic engineering, and Austria, we have just heard, has long been promoting the right of self-determination of the Member States in the debate at EU level. Maybe you could continue the conversation afterwards?- Oh, my God! [[in the direction of the Abg. Slickovits, who is standing at the government bank with Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich speaks]] – That would be very nice, thank you. We have also heard that, unfortunately, the Danish Presidency has not succeeded in creating clear rules for the national ban on the cultivation of genetically modified organisms to help break through. This is very bad, Mr Minister, and I think it is also a pity because, as far as I am aware, there would have been two variants between which the Member States could have decided: On the one hand, Member States should be given the opportunity to take out their territory in consultation with the provider of genetically modified varieties in the run-up to EU authorisation, and on the other hand, Member States should also be given the opportunity to ban genetically modified varieties that are authorised at EU level if this is contrary to the population or if the gen-changed pollen entry cannot be avoided due to too small operating structures. – That would have been the two variants. Unfortunately, this has not been voted on because just a few large states – we have already heard it – now the opinions differ; my knowledge is that they were Germany, Belgium, France, Spain and England. Because they voted against it, this vote did not happen, and this means that there will have to be further negotiations at EU level, and I am sure that they will also be conducted. This five-party proposal, which I very much welcome, because there is a great deal of consensus in the parliamentary negotiations, should, on the one hand, highlight the position of parliamentarians and, on the other hand, Mr Minister – and you can take it with you in a calm manner – also support and strengthen you in your efforts at EU level, because I think that Parliament may also be strengthening a bit far in Europe. I am particularly interested in these whole debates, namely that the precautionary principle is particularly important, because the precautionary principle follows the principle of preventing damage instead of remedying damage. And that is a very important principle from my point of view, because, in the future, the consequences of genetically modified seed cannot be estimated at all at the present time and science cannot yet estimate how this can actually affect the soil and soil and also the people, the organism. I like the fact that there is agreement. I would like to see other issues, such as – it has already been addressed – in the problem of bee dying, there is such a great deal of agreement in our Parliament and perhaps also in the bee-death problem of the prevention of damage instead of the damage resolution.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e21227	The next speaker was Mr Doppler. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e21248	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! High house! Genetic engineering ban in Austria, five-party application – a very important and correct step; unanimously in the Committee on Health, ladies and gentlemen, unanimously in the Committee on Agriculture, today unanimously in plenary against green genetic engineering; many decisions in the agricultural days against green genetic engineering. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, I am not going to let go of the feeling that this EU does not really care about Austria. I think we can still make a hundred decisions – it will still be tried again and again to find a back door so that green genetic engineering can also be used in Austria and throughout the EU. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! High house! Green genetic engineering is a huge danger to humans, animals and the entire environment. Exports of genetically modified seed can no longer be recovered. Many allergies and diseases already exist, of which no one knows where they come from. It's very bad with children. It can and should not be, ladies and gentlemen, that the greed of large seed groups about human health must be put on the table. We strongly reject such machinations from the liberals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e21282	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Schickhofer. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e21303	Ladies and gentlemen! I am very glad that we have a national consensus on two key environmental issues: on the one hand, in the fight against nuclear energy and in the direction of a non-atomic Austria and also in the consistent fight for a non-genotechnic Austria in cultivation and, as far as possible, on the plate. That is why we Socialists, of course, are also committed to a ban on genetically modified organisms at the pan-European level, but that is not quite easy if one has the major states of Germany, France and England as an opponent. There is national consensus in Austria. I am very glad that the cities and communities have also raised awareness of this issue with a lot of requests. The Landtages, the Federal Council and now again the National Council have clearly expressed their support for a ban on genetic engineering in Austria in the field of cultivation. I am also very glad that the Minister takes initiatives there again and again. I believe that even in all EU bodies – whether these are mandates, whether the National Councils or the Minister – there is a clear indication of the dangers in the field of genetic engineering. We are, of course, now supporting the Danish Presidency's initiatives and fighting side by side with the European Parliament on the right of self-determination of the regions in Europe. We in Austria rely on organic farming, we rely on our enjoyment regions. I believe that this is a real, important way to remain competitive, because of course this genetic engineering is used especially in Germany and in the other major agricultural countries in order to produce cheaper. Therefore, we need to make quality points and communicate them accordingly towards consumers so that we do not continue to have genetically modified foods in Austria and can rely on high-quality and healthy products. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e21339	Next speaker: Mrs Schönpass. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e21361	Mr President. Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Yes, we have been busy here in the High House many times with genetically modified foods, and we know that 80 percent of the Austrian population are against genetically modified ingredients in food. Just over two years ago, I also pleaded at this point – as today – for the maintenance of the Austrian bans on cultivation of genetic engineering maize lines against the will of the European Commission. We owe it to our citizens to do everything possible to maintain the existing bans on cultivation. That is why we call for a five-party proposal to defend Austrian genetic engineering bans at European level and to ensure that the precautionary principle is consistently applied in European food safety policy. Ladies and gentlemen, the genetic engineering forces chemical use in the fields, brings no higher yields and promotes industrial and monocultural agriculture. The Austrian citizens do not want genetically modified plants and food for good reason. Mr Minister, you have already been very successful and you are still required. In any case, we Social Democrats will continue to work for a GMO-free agriculture in Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e21394	Next speaker: Mr Schopf. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e21415	Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It is clear and it has often been said that the entire population is opposed to genetic engineering, and ultimately we all demand the implementation of political responsibility, that we become active and remain active in this regard. In particular, when it comes to genetic engineering being used in food production, the problem is all the bigger, and we demand even more activities. One thing is clear, namely that the problem of genetic engineering cannot be solved in Austria alone – here there is a great deal of consensus – as there is, above all, a European one. It is an international problem. That is why those responsible, especially you, Mr Minister, are required to become more active at European level. I think there are a number of very specific points where we are called upon to take initiatives, for example, that we have a clear attitude when it comes to the authorisation of genetically modified organisms – we believe that voting is also clear – when it comes to the right of self-determination of the different regions, as has already been said by my predecessor. This is also clear in Austria, but I think we must try everything at European level to ensure that this means are finally available to us. It's also important to me: It is always tried by various groups to enable the cultivation of genetically modified plants in the form of experiments. – I think that must not be allowed! We must realise our demands, and we should make every effort to do so and go to the European Court of Justice. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e21458	As the last speaker on this item on the agenda, Mr Magistrate. Gäßner to speak. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e21494	Mr President. Mr Jarolim, we are talking about agriculture, not its lawyers. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the SPÖ, with representatives of the Freeman and the Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber.]] I must return to the previous item on the agenda. Federal Minister! Mr. Schultes thanked you for your use in water protection. This should be the case, but I would like to thank the citizens who have to carry this cost of water protection throughout Austria, because water supply and disposal and therefore also clean water costs a lot of money. And, Mr. Federal Minister, so far, you have said that 550 million... – oh, 55 billion have been spent on it. [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich: 55 billion!]] Unfortunately, nothing has happened now, because there is nothing left in the water management fund. This is a very bad approach, because the first channels that have been built are now broken, and that will cost a lot of money again. This will certainly be exciting, and we will see who pays it. To the genetic engineering application: It has already been said – and I agree with it fully – that it is really beautiful and good, and I am proud that we five parties here clearly express an opinion. This, I believe, is important to you, Mr Federal Minister, so that you can continue to fight in Brussels as much as you do. You've done this so far. Of course, there is still a supremacy of opponents, but it was little Austria and it was you who set this discussion in motion. I really thank you for that. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] That was an excellent thing! We do not know how genetic engineering affects, we do not know what health damage there is – but unfortunately we do not know that in many other things, for example with pesticides that are used. It has already been spoken of by the neonicotinoids, who kill the bees and are therefore harmful to people. Glyphosate has already been a subject in the Committee on Agriculture. – There are a number of things that can still be discussed here. If we really want us to have healthy food in the future, then we have to talk about whether we can afford to continue using these poisons in the future, or also talk about what replacement we can offer to the farmers, so that they are not forced to continue using them. We have excellent food, we want it in the future too, and I therefore hope that this subcommittee of the Committee on Agriculture will have a very comprehensive, lasting discussion and perhaps one or another five-party request when it comes to eliminating pesticides.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e21546	As a further speaker, Mr Mayer spoke. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e21567	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Estimated Minister of State! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I think we all welcome it – and with the five-party request it is confirmed – that we do not want genetic engineering in our fields. I don't really know a single farmer in all of Austria who says he needs it or needs it, and that's good. Whenever we debate genetic engineering use in agriculture, we usually also follow the example of soy imports from Brazil and so on, Roundup Ready Soya, hardened against Roundup. There are a lot of pesticides used, residue controls repeatedly cover so many problems. This is really a problem, because Europe and Austria are also a large protein importer, and we are experiencing protein deficiency. The debate on the common agricultural policy is about 7 per cent of the biodiversity areas that are required – I strongly demand that we use these areas to assist the protein deficiency in order to be able to get rid of the soya imports more and more. In this context, it has already been mentioned several times that Roundup is also being used in Austria. Interesting in all the debates – and this is always the case – is that 30 percent of Roundup’s active substance is not used in agriculture, but in the municipal sector, at the ÖBB, in the household. We know that farmers – we have decided last year with the amendment to the Plant Protection Act – need to do an intensive training in order to be able to use these products in order to become so-called professional users, that the equipment must always be checked intensively, that everything needs to be documented, but the simple housekeeper/the simple housewife can simply remove the means for household use from the shelf and put them into the shopping cart, possibly next to the food. I believe that we need discussion, and I agree with Mr Gaßner's opinion that we need to have a technical discussion on this in the subcommittee, which will be set up on the subject of agro-chemicals. I think we are on a good path, and on a technical basis we will also come to a practical solution for our farmers. Not only the cultivation of genetic engineering is a topic for us in Austria, but also the feeding of genetically modified feed. We thank God for an area, namely the milk sector that has managed to convert Austria, it is fed free of genetic engineering. Unfortunately, we must note that this is not the consumer's credit to the extent that it would be necessary for the producer. We therefore call for a massive cost-effective production, because if we demand a programme of requirements, then the price for farmers must also be voted on. For example, we also have the bio segment that guarantees “100 percent free of genetic engineering”. The consumer who wants it can shop there. In this sense, we need a great deal of solidarity with our farmers. We have heard from Klubobmann Strache this morning that in Austria the food is far too expensive, no one can afford anything anymore. I think that's the wrong discussion. If we know that 12 percent of an average household income is spent on food and it was still 30 percent 30 years ago, then, I believe, we must have another value discussion in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e21616	No one is reporting on this. I'll close the debate. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall vote on the resolution on the maintenance of the Austrian genetic engineering bans attached to the Committee's report in 1791. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to be a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. (E 251.) [[19:54:49]] Agenda item 4 vote
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e21655	We shall now proceed to the vote on item 4 on the draft law in 1649. The following additional or amendments have been tabled: Amendment tabled by Mr Ing. Westenthaler, ladies and gentlemen, Amendment or amendment tabled by Mr Pendl, Dr Lopatka, Mr Mag. Steinhauser, ladies and gentlemen. I shall first vote on the overall amendment mentioned, then on the parts concerned by the supplementary or amendment, and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. We shall proceed to the vote on the amendments tabled by Mrs Ing. Westenthaler, ladies and gentlemen. Whoever speaks for this request, I ask for a sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the supplementary or amendment tabled by Mr Pendl, Dr Lopatka, Mr Mag. Steinhauser, colleagues on the insertion of a new point 3a and amendments to paragraphs 1, 2 and 4. I would like to ask those Members of the House who are voting for this request for a positive sign. – This is accepted by a majority. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt in the version of the Government template. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to this sign. – This is also accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[19:57:07]] 7. Point First reading: Parliament's motion for a resolution (Doc. Birgit Schatz, colleagues and colleagues concerning a federal law amending the employment contract law-adaptation law (1927/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e21737	We're on the 7th. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. President. — The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: Honey. 2 minutes of speaking time are adjusted as desired. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e21765	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! The wage and social dumping law, which we adopted last year, certainly brought a great deal of progress in the fight for more fairness in the labour market. Nevertheless, from the beginning it has had deficits, deficits which have actually been confirmed after the first year in practice. What's this about? – It is essentially about three points. If documents are not provided by the employer at the workplace, the penalties for the non-preparation of these documents are lower than those which would then be pronounced if wage dumping is proved. - That's ghastly. In other words, it is becoming more profitable for employers not to make the documents available at all and to be so to speak condemned as to risk. – This is counterproductive. Second point we want to make: Unfortunately, only the basic wage is checked. – A point which was at the heart of criticism from the very beginning. If only the basic wage, and not all the allowances, which, for example, can amount to up to 50 percent of the pay, are controlled – a little attention would be really nice – then, as it were, the actual equal treatment of workers, which has been planned by the law on and for themselves, is not guaranteed. [[Unrest in the meeting room]] [[President Dr. Graf gives the bell sign]] The third point, and this is really also a problem: If an employer can be found to be a wage dumping and the authority detects it, the employee concerned will not be informed of this. In other words, he may not even be able to sue his individual claims because he is not informed of the mistreatment by the employer. Ladies and gentlemen! These are the three essential points where I think it would be necessary to discuss them again, to look at them again in order to change them so that this in principle can become more effective. I would also like to stress that, one year after the entry into force of the Federal Minister, the ÖGB, the Chamber of Workers and the AMS, it was also stated that precisely these points lead to the fact that this wage and social dumping law cannot work as efficiently as it might really be useful. I would ask you to have a constructive debate and hope that we will make a little progress in the interests of those concerned. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e21822	The next speaker was Mr Muchich. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e21843	Ladies and gentlemen! I have looked through the Greens' request and confirmed the first sentence: The law against wage and social dumping, which has been in force since May 2011, is certainly an important step forward in Austrian legislation. I would like to thank you officially for the fairness, namely that the Greens do not mean this law, because they know very well how everyone else, hopefully, also that this law is unique throughout Europe and many other countries envy us about this law. It is legitimate to call for improvements, improvements for which we as trade unions and as SPÖ have always occurred, even during the phase of the creation of this law. But, as you know, it has ultimately failed to negotiate the entire payment into the basic wage at the top of the social partners and ultimately also at the coalition level. In addition, as you know, it was very important for the government to have this law with 1. In May 2011, it entered into force, precisely at the time when the freedom to provide services entered into force. We have repeatedly stressed on the part of SPÖ that we face improvements openly. I therefore go very openly and optimistically to the further discussion, because it is important and also target-oriented. If we may not succeed in bringing something forward at coalition level, then perhaps at the social partners level. Finally, I can tell you that we have been very well since 1. May 2011 to ensure that improvements are possible. Especially in the field of the construction-social partnership and in the field of the possibilities of the construction-social partners in the building-workers' holiday and treatment law, thanks to your support here in Parliament – four parties have agreed to the last B-UAG-Novelle – it has succeeded in bringing about those changes that allow us to control them even better. With 1. In April, the construction site database was introduced in the holiday fund, with more than 3,000 construction sites already covered to enable efficient control by the control authorities. We have increased control bodies and we have agreed with the employees of the control bodies in the holiday fund checks on weekends. We are currently negotiating the next B-UAG-Novelle, and I ask you all to support us now that the special payments in the construction industry will be included in the basic wage. We're in the middle of the negotiations. We also want all the workers concerned, whether national or foreign, to be identified on the site of suspicion of sub-remuneration, to be determined by: In order to be able to act in civil law, vacation funds are informed, and we also want to impose higher penalties in the event of crime. Finally, I quote Otto Pendlund really invites you to continue to work on improving this law and perhaps also to achieve mobility to make competition even more fair for both employees and employers in Austria. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e21902	The next speaker was Mrs Steibl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e21923	Mr President. High house! A few comments to the Greens' request: First: The §§ 143c, 153d and 153e criminal code already now put an organized blackwork or the fraudulent non-payment of social security contributions under judicial punishment, from up to five years in prison. This already concerns the total wage of claim, not only the basic wage according to wage and social dumping law, and you know that too. That is, Mrs Schatz, in her request, calls for an administrative penalty for something that is already largely criminal. In our opinion, therefore, the Greens' request is largely empty, because no one can be punished twice for one act, not by court and by an administrative authority. This was, after all, defined in the European Convention on Human Rights and recently confirmed by the Constitutional Court. You can discuss everything. These are just a few points; I could add some more.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e21956	The last speaker to speak was Mr Dolinschek. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e21978	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Steibl, I think you have not read the request properly. The wage and social dumping law, which has now been in force for a year now, concerns only the basic wage, but not the total due remuneration. That's a serious difference! Supplements paid for overtime or for activities involving certain materials are not included. And this is precisely the case in this case: that, under Austrian law, employees, employees and employees may be virtually deprived of up to 50 percent of the remuneration due to them. – This is one point that needs to be improved. In addition, under the current wage and social dumping law, it is in fact impossible to exclude a company that is designated for wage and social dumping, so to speak, from a tender procedure, because it does not exist to the authorities, because they do not have access. That is why this contract-law-adaptation law is amended and improved – in the sense of Austrian workers.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e22017	No one has been reported in the word anymore. I therefore close the debate and accept the motion for a resolution tabled by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs in 1927/A. The agenda is exhausted. [[20:06:35]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2012-06-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e22050	I am still announcing that in today's session, the self-employed applications were submitted in 1964/A(E) to 1994/A. Question No 11818/J to 11884/J has also been received. Finally, a question by Mr Gerald Grosz, ladies and gentlemen, 82/J-PR, has been sent to the President of the National Council. The next meeting of the National Council on business communications and allocations will be convened at 8.07 p.m., immediately following this meeting. This meeting is closed.
